ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u1	Minister, on 21 January 2022 it was reported that the Supreme Health Council recommended a fourth injection of the corona vaccine for people with a weakened immune system. We've seen the same scenario before for the third shot. Then the High Health Council first recommended a third shot for the 350,000 to 400,000 people who suffer from a disease or previous treatment with lower immunity. Soon the 85-plussers and the rest home residents followed. Meanwhile, the third shot will be required to present a valid CST. So it is also possible that a fourth prick will be generalised for a valid CST. However, continuing to booster is not without risk. The WHO has also said that we will not be able to booster ourselves out of the pandemic. Professor Sanders of Ghent University points out the presence of PEG lipids in the mRNA vaccines. Although these are weak immunogenes, they can still generate antibodies, which can be enhanced by repeated boosters with the mRNA vaccines. Such antibodies and immune responses to PEG may have consequences, as PEG is also present in other medicines and products. According to Professor Sanders, further research is needed and should be taken into account in the risk-benefit analysis. For example, PEG is found in other medicines, which may also be of vital importance for patients at risk who are now advised to take a fourth dose. Initial clinical trials with the mRNA vaccines were conducted with two doses. Meanwhile, a fourth dose is recommended for part of the population. Was repeated administration of mRNA vaccines also widely studied in clinical trials? Which one? Is there any knowledge of the effects of multiple administration of mRNA vaccines? Are there studies ongoing in Belgium that monitor the possible emergence of antibodies against PEG? Is it quickly picked up when antibodies against PEG are manifesting? Has the High Health Council taken into account the increased risk of antibody generation against PEG in repeated boosters and its consequences on other therapies? My question about the vaccination of young people is a bit out of date. At the Valda Hospital in Sint-Agatha-Berchem, a mother could have a booster shot with her children aged 12 and 15, while that was not actually allowed yet. How is it possible that people in hospitals are not aware of the current rules on vaccination against COVID-19? Where did it go wrong? Are there any sanctions? How many kids have been boosted against all regulations? Do you think a ski trip is a good reason for vaccination? I would like to ask an additional question about the dose for children and adults. The split is made at 12 years. Jan, who is 11 years old today, weighs 50 kg and is 1.55 meters tall, receives a child vaccine, but Mieke, who is 12 years old, weighs 35 kg and is 1.40 meters tall, gets a vaccine for adults. Most medicines are calculated on weight, whereas in vaccines it appears to be of age. Is that different with vaccines? Can you explain that for me? What scientific studies do you base yourself on in order to only take age into account in vaccination and not weight or other factors? What can be the consequences of too heavy a vaccine? Has there been any complaints about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u2	I refer to the written version of my questions, which are already somewhat outdated.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u3	Mr Minister, I would like to talk about the further progress of the vaccination campaign. What's the schedule for the fourth shot look like? Will the fourth injection be effectively limited to the risk groups or will it be extended? Many young people are trying to plan their travels and I am being asked to make sure that if the fourth prick becomes mandatory for them, they can be dealt with in good time, so that their reais is certainly not compromised. We see that many countries introduce travel restrictions and entanglements. For example, Morocco requires a second shot of no more than four months before arrival or a third shot. When will the target group be expanded for the fourth injection if necessary and can young people get their shot for the summer holidays?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u4	Mrs Fonck, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u5	Madam President, I will speak at the time of the reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u6	Mr Minister, first of all, PEG lipids can produce antibodies. We must not blow up that risk, but the phenomenon must be a focus, especially on patients treated for MS, for example. To what extent do you take this into account? What studies have you undertaken in this connection? To what extent have you conducted studies in patients receiving certain medications that may cause cross-immunity and delay in medication? Do you consider giving them, for example, a classic protein vaccine? My second question concerns the flu. The flu has now set foot ashore in Europe. The peak of the omikron wave is already behind us, but BA.2, the brother of omikron, is now on the rise. We do not know much about this, we do not know whether or not it will become dominant and whether it is dangerous. Have you received any alarms about this, Minister? How do you see its combination with influenza, because the first reports of an influenza epidemic came from the Balkans? What about us and how will you deal with that? I also retabled my question on the vaccination of young people, as you announced in plenary that you would start diplomatic talks, together with the Prime Minister, with a number of destination countries to which young people will move next week. How'd those calls go? What have you agreed on so that young people can still enjoy their holidays or school trips, even if they have not yet received a booster shot? Finally, the campaign for the fourth shot for immunosuppressed patients and the really older patients is running. I have a few questions from a scientific point of view. How often can you give a mRNA vaccine? How wide will you go with the fourth shot? What's the timing? Currently, the administration is quite limited, but we can expect that in the autumn there may be more general need for a fourth shot. Has long-term immunity effects been studied if four vaccines are administered on a much shorter schedule than initially expected? Some virologists who advise the government, I hear in the press talk about a basic vaccination schedule. In the clinical trials, two vaccines were ultimately envisaged for a primary vaccination schedule. A booster vaccine has come and a reboost has been announced. How can we reassure the population that this has been sufficiently scientifically investigated, especially in the long term?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u7	Mrs. Zanchetta, you weren't there when I called, but go if the minister allows.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u8	Madam President, please excuse me, but we were voting in the Committee on Justice, which is why I am late. Minister, the Ministers of Health have approved the administration of a fourth dose for immunocompromised individuals. The Supreme Council of Health has indeed recommended that this category of people, which is more fragile and at risk from covid-19, should be boosted again. It has now been a few days, even several weeks, that the administration of this fourth dose for immunocompromised people has begun. Meanwhile, discussions on the possible administration of a third dose for 12 to 17 year olds continue. In Flanders, administration of this third dose has already begun. Minister, what is a fourth dose for the rest of the population? Have any discussions taken place on this subject? If yes, when do you plan to put this fourth dose in place? What is known about the duration of effectiveness of the third dose? What is the status of discussions on a potential third dose for youth? What are the elements that block decision-making? What should the Walloons and Brusselsers who are alone in the face of Flanders think, even if the decision is not within your control? Thank you for your answers and thank you for interrupting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u9	Madam President, I'll do it again. I shall first say a few words about the scientific questions posed by Mrs Depoorter and Mrs Sneppe. I will then respond more specifically to Mrs Zanchetta et al.'s questions about the state of the current campaign. Mrs Depoortere and Mrs Sneppe, you referred, among other things, to the problem of the PEG lipids and the question of whether we should continue to booster. I am afraid to answer that at the moment. As far as those scientific questions are concerned, the High Health Council and the Task Force are keeping their finger on the pulse. We are having a continuous informal exchange of views with the task force. The Inter-Ministerial Conference is often attended by the chairman of the... group of the High Health Council, which contributes to a continuous exchange of views on all these issues. I do not dare to answer the questions of whether we should continue to booster, what are the advantages and disadvantages of regularly boostering when we do so, and other questions of a scientific nature that have been asked. Of course, these questions are also absolutely pertinent questions about the organisation of the vaccination campaign in the future, depending on what the scientific conclusion is about the nature of basic vaccination versus repeated vaccination. I will not answer that either, I hope you will not blame me. That is precisely because the scientific aspect is first discussed. As far as operational matters are concerned, the Task Force has already drawn up plans and thought about a vaccination campaign 3.0, in which primary health care will play an important role, as will preventive health care. So we come to the question of the role of pharmacists, which we have already discussed here. I will not anticipate that either, especially since the practical organisation of a vaccination campaign is primarily based on consultation from the Länder. We will certainly have to come back to that. That might allow me to be a little more specific. In response to Ms. Zanchetta's specific questions, on January 24, 2022, the ICD Public Health decided to allow a second booster dose to be given to people aged 12 and over who suffer from impaired immunity due to an underlying disease or treatment. These include patients with innate immunodeficiencies, chronic kidney failure, inflammatory diseases treated with immunosuppressive agents, cancers that have been or have been actively treated in the last three years, and patients in pre-transplantation, stem cell transplantation and organ transplantation, as well as HIV-positive patients with CD4 cells below 200/mm3 of blood. Because of their condition, the body of immunocompromised people reacts less strongly following the administration of a vaccine. After the additional dose, therefore, a booster is recommended to ensure that they are optimally protected against serious illness, hospitalization or even death due to covid-19. This decision has been taken involving more than 325,000 people, of whom almost 93 per cent have already received an additional dose. With regard to the administration of a second extended booster dose to the entire population, the data currently available do not suggest its usefulness. That's what I just said. It is a scientific debate that is not closed. Initial results from a study in Israel indicate that when a fourth dose is administered, patients' antibodies are multiplied by five, indicating that the vaccine works and provides protection against serious complications. However, against the Omicron variant, Pfizer and Moderna vaccines appear to be less effective than against other variants and thus offer less protection against the current variant. At this stage, the data do not suggest the need for an additional dose to be administered to the population as a whole. With regard to the administration of a booster to children under 18 years of age, you know that the ICD Public Health has received a very brief opinion from the Higher Health Council and another from the vaccination task force, the problem being that no specific recommendation or authorisation from EMA on this issue has yet been received. This led the Supreme Council of Health to say that it does not have evidence on the basis of which it can give an opinion. The vaccination task force indicated that it was very important to reflect on consent, parental consent in this case, for the administration of a booster dose in this context. You know that we have had a debate on this within the framework of the ICD Public Health which has failed to reach agreement on a common approach to this issue. You know that the Ostbelgian and the Flemish Community have decided to start a booster campaign for young people on a voluntary basis with parental consent, while Wallonia and Brussels have not wanted to do so since there is not yet an EMA authorisation or recommendation. Here's what the question is. I will give some more precise figures in reply to Mrs Depoorter's question about how many people we are talking about when we talk about the immune compromised people. The list of immunocompromised persons drawn up from September included 303.048 persons listed by the sickness funds on the basis of the information available to them and 47.394 persons designated by the general practitioners. Of this total, about 17,000 people were not invited, for the simple reason that they had not received a full primary vaccination. The list of immunocompromised patients used for the booster campaign in February 2022 is the same as for the additional dose. If you add up and deduct, you get 333,998 people. I'm going to go over in Dutch and see who they are. These are people with Down syndrome, people with congenital immune disorders, people receiving chronic kidney dialysis, people with inflammatory diseases taking medication to suppress the immune system, such as Crohn's disease and rheumatoid arthritis, people being treated for cancer or treated against it for the last three years, stem cell and organ transplant patients, before and after such transplantation, and HIV patients whose CD4 cell count is less than 200 per mm3 blood. Mrs Depoorter, you asked if the fourth shot determines the validity of the CST. No. We also do not have a validity period after the booster. It's no limit for the time being, so the same goes for the fourth shot. Mrs Creemers had questions about the organisation of the vaccination campaign. I have already answered that, as have Mrs Farih's questions. With regard to the operational conclusions that we will draw together with the Länder on the basis of the scientific findings on how to further vaccinate now, I cannot say much about that at the moment, except that the task force has already looked into this and has drawn up scenarios and that it is quite obvious that we want to involve the first line and preventive health care more closely. Mrs Depoorter, you also had questions about the possible impact of a simultaneous flu and covide epidemic. Those are important questions. If we had a peak of COVID-19 and flu infections at the same time, we would have a very heavy social pressure on the healthcare sector. That is the scenario we wanted to avoid. So far we have avoided that. That was part of the motivation for me, too, to be quite careful before and after Christmas. I also indicated at the time that this scenario was involved. On the individual level, it is different. The literature shows that the person infected with the flu virus and SARS-CoV-2 as an individual at the same time would not, on average, have a more serious disease outcome than the person infected with SARS-CoV-2 alone. I repeat, we are now dealing with the omikron variant. We do not know very well whether that conclusion at the level of the individual for the double contagion also holds for omikron. We don't know that, but we don't know the opposite either. You also asked what we could do to avoid a combined peak. Now that we are clearly past the peak of the omikron wave, the demand seems less topical, but it remains an actual question. Firstly, allow me to state that the hygiene and distance measures against COIVD-19, which we have thus promoted, are of course also very useful against the flu. The success in Belgium in following this general caution by the population may also explain why we have had little to do with flu. Let me explain this in a moment. It's important to have good surveillance of the flu. We already have one. Sciensano has been following the frequency of confirmed flu infections in our country for years on the basis of level networks of general practitioners, clinical labs and hospitals. In these surveillances, patients with specific symptoms are systematically tested for some sixteen respiratory viruses, including flu and SARS-CoV-2, so that we can also monitor the intensity of the circulation of the different viruses. For the time being, these surveillance shows that we are not currently experiencing increased flu activity, although some other European countries are experiencing increased flu activity. So that's good. The optimistic hypothesis is that this has to do with the fact that people in Belgium have usually behaved very carefully. Mrs Depoorter, I will come back to your question. The most important measure to avoid a combined peak is, of course, vaccination. For this reason, we have strengthened the possibility of vaccination on three points. I'm talking about the flu vaccination. A quarter more flu vaccine doses have been made available than last year. Those 3.7 million doses are sufficient to vaccinate all target groups. In addition to doctors, pharmacists, like last year, are given the power to make the medical prescription. The patient does not have to go to the doctor first and then just pick up the vaccine. Unlike last year, there was no phasering per target group to be vaccinated, giving everyone the opportunity to be vaccinated from 15 October onwards. In this way, we wanted to facilitate the flu vaccination campaign. Finally, you also had questions about our young people abroad. Am I right? I'm repeating myself a little bit. I have carried out diplomatic démarches in Vienna and Rome in consultation with the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister. Our permanent representative to the European Union has also raised the issue. My own diplomatic representative has also had direct contact with his Austrian colleague. They'll keep each other informed. In the meantime, the situation has become simpler for people travelling from Belgium to Austria or Italy, because Austria and Italy have introduced a number of relaxations. Last week, for example, Austria decided to switch from a 2G+ policy to a 3G policy from 16 February 2022. This means that access is granted to people who have been cured, vaccinated or tested. The latter, being tested, is a relaxation that has been added with effect from 19 February 2022. As from 5 March 2022, the 3G rule will then disappear everywhere in Austria, except in hospitals and related institutions, where the 3G rule still applies. As of 5 March, FFP2 masks are also required only in places where vulnerable persons must have access and share space, for example in public transport, supermarkets, pharmacies and hospitals, i.e. no longer in the catering industry. Even night gastronomy should no longer close early. Also in the cultural sector, masks will no longer be required. There are also authorisations for major events from March onwards. Italy is also taking steps towards reopening. From 7 February onwards, the corona certificate is valid unlimited for those who received three doses and also for those who recovered from covid after a full initial vaccination cycle of two doses. In order to make life easier for the tourism sector, the Italian Government has also decided that anyone who has been vaccinated or recovered from covid in the last six months may enter hotels and restaurants with the basic green pass. Anyone who has been vaccinated or recovered more than six months ago must be able to show a negative test result in Italy. That information can also be found on the websites of those countries. I suggest that interested parties follow carefully through the specific websites what is decided in those countries. Mrs Sneppe, you asked a question about the Valda Hospital in Sint-Agatha-Berchem. There was an incident in which a child was given a booster vaccine, which was not intended to happen. The concrete situation is as follows. That hospital had to do with increased workload and absenteeism because of the omikron variant. A replacement nurse was deployed, who unfortunately made a mistake. He was not aware that minors should not be given booster vaccine. The hospital never decided to deviate from the rules. It was certainly not intended to facilitate access to ski holidays by off-label vaccinations. When that error was discovered, the hospital director informed all staff correctly and reminded them of the rules in force. In this way we try to avoid such mistakes in the future. I don't think there was anything structural wrong in that hospital, and I didn't think it was necessary to impose a sanction on that hospital. How many kids have been bombed against regulations in that way? A total of six minors aged 12 to 17 received booster shots. Mrs Creemers, Europe remains somewhat absent despite all efforts to develop a European health policy and a common response. It would, of course, be much easier if there were more uniformity in the approach in the European countries to vaccination requirements, how they are formulated with regard to young people, etc. You're absolutely right about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u10	Madam President, Minister, I find it a bit strange. With regard to the PEG lipids, you say that you do not yet have a scientific basis and that you do not have any scientific studies yet, but you continue with boosters. Somehow it has to be concluded that it is better to booster than to possibly have the bad luck that the cancer medicines do not work more or less because of the umpteenth booster. I think that's weird. I would use the precautionary principle in this, but apparently that is not in your dictionary. I would also apply the precautionary principle in the case of vaccination for young people and children. As far as youth vaccination is concerned, there are more errors in hospitals. That shouldn't happen. We can complain about this for a long time or decide not to do so, but it is of course absurd that young people want to get their booster to go on a journey. That is, of course, the absurdity of the whole concept of CST. So I would like to call once again for that thing to be abolished, because in the end it is no longer about health. On the contrary, one goes against all regulations but boosters, in order to be able to go on holiday anyway. So it's more about entertainment and relaxation. I had a question about the doses. How exactly was that decided? Why does a child aged 11 years with the weight of a 13-year-old child receive an adult vaccine and a 12-year-old child weighing 10 or 11 years? You did not answer that question. Don't you have an answer or don't you want answers? I find that striking, because, of course, I am not medically trained, but I do have four children if children become ill, then the dose of the medicine is adjusted to the weight of the child. So one would think that this is the case with vaccines, but apparently it is not. You can say it if you do not have an answer, but there should be studies on this or there should be advice from the manufacturer on the dosage for children based on their weight? Unfortunately, nothing is known about this, not even the producers, otherwise it would be in the package leaflet. So I would like to call once again for the precautionary principle to be applied when vaccinating children, because healthy children do not really need to have the vaccine. During the roll-out of vaccination for children in the United States, an increase of 300 % of myocardiitis was observed in young boys. This alone should be a little more careful, but fortunately no one is yet obliged to have their children vaccinated. If you have an answer to my last question, please let me know, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u11	Mr Minister, my questions were put a few weeks ago. I wanted to know how the fourth dose would be administered and also had questions about the booster campaign for young people and children. I'd especially like to give a compliment to the local authorities. Many public services have worked very hard, but it can also be said that the vaccination campaign is a very good achievement for local authorities. We are now a few weeks after submitting my questions and the booster pricks are being put in place and the fourth prick is being administered, so this is a plume for the local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u13	Mr. Secretary, I have no further questions. I would like to join Mr De Caluwe. The local authorities have done their best, for which they are grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u14	Minister, vaccinating young people without EMA validation so they can go skiing, and given the evolution of vaccine responses, as well as the evolution of the epidemic, raises a number of ethical questions. There should be a shift in approach to this issue, taking a position at the level of Belgium and calling for much more coherence at European level. Indeed, we are faced with the absence of an opinion from the EMA and with countries that demand that this booster be inoculated, including minors. As Minister of Health, I clearly call on you to try to bring together the views at European level and to avoid this race to the stallion in order to know who will carry out the greatest number of reminders for minors without validation of the EMA. I would also like to address the issue of immunocompromised patients. As you have said, they can benefit, and fortunately, from a fourth dose that we know will not fully protect them because, by definition, their immunity is low, they have a much higher risk of contracting the disease and developing a serious form of it. I would therefore like to insist here that these immunocompromised patients have access to effective treatments, in particular the Paxlovid, which has been ordered in very large numbers by the countries around us when Belgium does not yet have them and has, to my knowledge, ordered only a very small number of them. All weapons must be available so that they do not end up in catastrophic situations and should not continue to land, given the risk they face.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u15	We do not yet know whether a fourth shot or a booster shot is needed, but we do know that it is part of the possible scenarios. We must learn from this that we need to be better prepared for another possible pandemic or health crisis. I cannot stress enough that this operational schedule needs to be put into practice. We can't extend that for us. That's gotta be there. It must not be the case that we have to stomp something out of the ground over and over again. It's got to be something continuous that we can switch fast. That is why we need to organise preventive health care in primary care, involving current health professionals and involving reserves. I think that's how we need to think further. I regret that some kind of crisis management is being maintained. One only organises something after a decision has been made and then rebuilds.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I agree with you on a number of issues, but I do not agree with you on a number of issues. With regard to the booster, we may not yet know enough, especially in the scientific field, to decide on this. I would also like to point out some caution in communicating on the basic scheme. I have heard the communication from the experts who advise the government and I am somewhat concerned about that, which is the clarity for the patients. We are talking about a basic schedule 1 and 2. Then we talk about a basic diagram 1, 2 and 3. Then how will one communicate about number 4? I think we need to communicate very clearly that a booster might be necessary in the autumn. That has already been communicated by a number of policy makers. I also think that we really need to focus on those virus inhibitors. I agree with Mrs Fonck. An open letter has been reported today in the French-speaking press, in which it is very clear that too little Paxloid has been ordered to accommodate immunosuppressed patients. I've told you that a few times. You always answer me that we can reorder. I've requested the contracts. I didn't receive it, not from the FAGG, because it's not in possession of those contracts, but it's not in possession of the Public Health Office. I would like to see how much guarantee we have to have enough Paxlovid or Lagevrio in the autumn. I'm gonna keep hammering on that. We're gonna have to be ready soon to take care of our patients, especially our vulnerable patients. Also, the multiple mRNA dosies in a body that does not respond perfectly should be monitored and investigated. There is a paediatric vaccine for children and a vaccine for adults. Those are also the schedules that are being drawn up. I think that is the answer to Mrs Sneppe's question. Nor do I follow you on the PEG lipids, Minister. I think the signals from the University of Ghent have been given for a while. Those investigations should be ongoing. I don't want to do panic-mongering, but we really need to investigate. Also with regard to the CST I have a caveat. I have a lot of patients asking questions. They say: I've had three vaccines, I feel good, I don't know if I'll take that fourth shot, but what about my CST? You said that there was no limit on that, but it was the same last time. Then the CST would be valid for a year. Eventually it was nine months. The people were actually put in a panic situation to get that booster quickly. There too, a little foresight could help people to move forward and certainly strengthen their support, because we feel that this is decreasing at the moment. We are lucky that the flu is not in our regions today, but it is a problem in other European Member States that we have to keep an eye on, especially for the next winter. It is also good that you have taken steps in the area of diplomatic contacts. I think it has been a very difficult time for our young people. I am not in favour of vaccinating without EEA approval, but I am absolutely in favour of our children travelling and, if necessary with a test, having a school trip or a family holiday.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u17	Minister, the health survey that was reduced by more than 22,000 participants at the end of last year has shown that, in the event of a tightening of measures, the proportion of adults experiencing a negative impact on different areas of life is increasing. This was particularly the case for work or training, but also for family and social life, with percentages again as high in December 2021 as in March 2021. For the areas of life income and health & care, the percentage was even higher in December than in March. The percentage of adults who were dissatisfied with their lives at the end of 2021 was very high. We also see a very negative score for young people in the field of joy of life. In addition, 21 percent of adults indicated wrestling with depressive disorder and 24 percent with anxiety disorder. These are the highest rates measured since the start of the COOVID-19 health survey. Finally, 28% of adults also suffered from severe loneliness. That figure corresponds to that of March 2021. What is your response to the findings? Do you see certain short- and long-term actions? How do you let people know they're being heard?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u18	Mr Minister, apart from the alarming figures on mental health that emerged from the Sciensano survey, there was also, in the meantime, the very poignant Panoreportage on mental health and the lack of access to it, especially for young people. The testimonies showed that children with their mental problems are abandoned, with all the consequences: long waiting lists, many months waiting for them to meet a suitable aid worker. That report also mentioned the money you have now released to respond to the problems of mental health. The experts in the reportage as well as in the journal called that a drop on a hot record, it really isn't enough. They also testified about a poor flow of information and the lack of figures on the problem. Even before the covid pandemic, an expert had tried to identify the extent to which the need for care and the supply are different. This showed that less than half of young people receive an answer to their question of care. How do you respond to the reportage? Will you set up a system for exchanging information on the need for care, suicide attempts and suicides? Will you monitor the need for care and the supply, so that we always have a look at the waiting times? Apparently, there are no statistics on this. Will you invest further?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u19	I am happy to endorse this, given the importance of the debate on mental health care and my resolution at the time, which, moreover, the government has dealt with in a good way. Unfortunately, since the corona crisis, we have found that the waiting lists are only increasing. The situation has got worse, especially among young people. The reports show that people had to wait 2 to 3 months in the past, but now they have to wait so long before they can get an intake interview. As a result, the young people concerned are getting even deeper into the pit. I read in the policy paper that the Minister pays a great deal of attention to eating disorders, which are symptomatic of other problems among young people. There would be a working group on eating disorders to formulate an opinion on the care path for young people with these problems. These are important initiatives. Creating more resources alone will not save the day, and we have already had that discussion. Work must be done on the basis of the problem. Action must therefore be taken as early as possible in the places where young people meet. Minister, you share that view, but what is the state of play? What concrete solutions are being put forward? Is there any consultation with the communities? I suppose so. How are the results achieved? What about the group on eating disorders? How does the roll out of various other initiatives, such as the mobile crisis teams for children and young people? An important step has been taken in psychological first-line care and for the 32 accessible Centres for Mental Health Care through the conventions? Can we give priority to children and young people there? How do you evaluate the measures such as group sessions in schools and other meeting places for young people to discuss their problems? I believe in that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u20	Mr. Secretary, when you see the Panoreportage and the Seventh Day, every mother's heart bleeds. This is in stark contrast to your announcement policy of July last year. It cannot be that our society is unable to help children and young people in need. It is also impossible for only 1 in 2 young people to receive help. I would have liked to have heard your plans. Yesterday, an opinion was received from the Supreme Health Council on mental health. How will you react to that? I would also like to know how many children are waiting for psychological help. In the Seventh Day we heard that 1 in 2 does not take place. Is that correct and what will you do about it? How many young people are on waiting lists? What is the evolution of waiting times? How will you handle the payment? You announced that young people and patients in need would pay 11 euros per hour. But this is only about 5 paid-back consultations. My mailbox and that of colleagues, perhaps, is full of parents' distress calls about the high invoices, for example for the treatment of eating disorders. If they are already being helped, they will not be able to pay those invoices. Do you see it possible to involve psychiatric nurses in pre- and post-care at home? That is an absolute pain point, because there are now only two nomenclatures. Will you deal with this matter? We can no longer tolerate that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u21	Madam President, first of all, I would like to comment on the dates and then briefly give some general comments, which are in fact a confirmation of many of the legitimate observations. The COOVID-19 health survey carried out by Sciensano is, in my opinion, a particularly useful tool. The results of the ninth survey have recently been published. Like all of you, I look at it with attention. We can actually see that mental well-being, as measured in it, is rising and falling. In periods, things are getting a little better, in periods a little worse. That is not surprising, because mental well-being is worse when the pandemic is severe, when measures are taken to reduce people's contact. Although that is not surprising, it is a reason to always think very carefully about the measures to be taken. I may be going through an open door now, but I would like to repeat that in the past 18 months we have systematically said in policy that schools should remain as open as possible, although this may not be the best choice purely from the point of view of combating the virus. But it is not just about the virus, it is also about the mental well-being of young people, who suffer from the closure of schools. Two times, we have tried to minimise closure - we inevitably had to decide to close the schools and allow all classes to take place in distance learning. Distance learning or even part-time distance learning is difficult for many young people. We don't have to make a fuss about that. We can be pleased that we are now leaving another acute phase of the crisis behind and that we can pay a great deal of attention to the young people. I honestly hope that with the current figures, even though the wood is holding - it continues to drive and look around - we can switch relatively quickly to code yellow. In addition to demands on the presence of CO2 meters and any requirements on mouth masks on public transport, we can say, for example, that young people at school no longer have to wear a mouth mask. At least that's what I'm assuming in code yellow. Without setting a date right now, I hope we will reach that stage soon. In the media, I heard people say that it should be introduced after the crocus holiday. I certainly don't want to rule that out. The faster we can switch to code yellow, the better, but we will do it based on the numbers and their dynamics, as we did with code orange. So I hope to be able to move quickly, among other things, for the benefit of those young people who are having a hard time and those who are tired of wearing a mouth mask in schools. Then we will also be able to put the many complaints about it behind us. Anyway, mental health goes up and down, but has suffered certainly and without any doubt under the pandemic. Even before the pandemic, we had a lot of data. Our mental health policy aims to focus on the health of the population, so we want a public health perspective, as it is called. That perspective means that we want to go far beyond the mere organisation of individual clinical contacts between people seeking a solution to acute problems, and a healthcare provider, who helps to find a solution. The approach is much more ambitious, because we look at the health of the population and we want to maintain the mental health of the population. This means quick, broad and preventive intervention. It also means developing a view on the health of the population. The information Professor Ronny Bruffaerts collects about this has always been very important to us. Professor Bruffaerts says that structuralally the prevalence of mental problems among the Belgian adult population is divided as follows. 67 % of people have no psychic problem, 18 percent of people have mild to mild mental problems, 9 percent have mild to moderate mental problems, 4 percent of people have complex mental disorders and 2 percent have severe mental disorders. We base our policy on these figures, because it is a structural fact for the adult population. Those figures do not change very much either, they are generally quite stable. We hope, of course, that the impact of the pandemic will be somewhat temporary, so that, on the basis of that stable but not reassuring pattern in itself, we can develop our policies further. Recently I also have results from a biweekly survey that monitors the pressure on children's psychiatric beds. I cannot yet publish those results, because they are not yet very stable. Since June, we have been requesting a number of data from children's psychiatry services every two weeks. We'll learn from that. I'll get back to you later. In fact, it is very important for the whole of our health policy, including the mental health policy, that we are working on the creation of a health data authority, which makes knowledge about our health and health care available to everyone on the basis of data, so that we can base our policies on it. In addition, individual people can gain better insight and better care for patients. Thanks to a health data authority, you get a comprehensive data catalogue with a good description of the available data based on metadata, with smooth access, of course also secured, with a sound legal basis, with necessary transparency. That is a very important ambition of the government. So mental health data must also be collected by the health data authority. We will discuss this on other occasions, but I just wanted to mention that. We need to put the monitoring even further into the questioning of the child and youth psychiatric services, which we have been conducting since the end of June of last year. Hospitals, for example, need uniform registration. For example, the inclusion criteria vary slightly from hospital to hospital. Nevertheless, over the past six months we have noted a decrease in the average maximum and minimum waiting time for hospitals, both in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia. We've been measuring that since June, so that can't be compared to the period before June. All in all, it is a good thing, albeit moderate. I hope that has something to do with our very strong investment in our childhood and childhood psychiatry since April last year. The public debate may underestimate what we are doing. Hopefully, the first impact will be visible in monitoring, with a slight improvement in waiting times for psychiatric services, rather than further deterioration. Our investments are important. We place a particular emphasis on setting the point of psychological care in the first line. This means that access is given to people who have certain problems. These problems may just need to be explored a little bit. Preferably there is a quick response, rather than making the problems get worse. The right path is then guided. A low-threshold offer not only allows people to approach an individual clinical psychologist or orthopedagogic for one session, for a conversation or to explore a problem, or possibly multiple sessions. It also actually means that this offer should be available in general practitioners' practices, social services, welfare institutions and OCMWs. The psychological aid in the first line must be interwoven throughout our social fabric and, in fact, throughout our health care system, especially in the first line. To this end, we have made additional EUR 122.5 million available, on top of the EUR 39 million that had already been released in the previous government. Together, this is 152 million euros. That is a very important investment. Rollout's in progress. We already see that the availability in hours of clinical psychologists and orthopedagogics has increased significantly in our mental health networks. In the children and youth networks, the increase in availability between March last year and January this year is 50%. In adult networks, the increase in availability is 40%. The number of approved sessions quadrupled in January of this year compared to March of last year. It must not therefore be said that we are not making any effort. However, part of the entire budget remains unused. The additional initiatives are thus gradually being rolled out, with networks trying carefully to identify the needs they need to meet specifically in their region and how to get a foothold in, among other things, general practitioners, social services, welfare institutions, schools and CLBs. In almost all of the 32 mental health networks that our country is rich, a network coordinator has been recruited. I have asked them to make progress now. That question will be repeated in the coming days. I want clarity on how the presence will be organised in general practitioners, schools and social services, among other things, by 1 April. I actually want the whole story rolled out by summer. That takes time, and that may be frustrating, but careful action takes time. In addition, we are engaged in additional investments in children's and youth psychiatry. There will be another 35 million, which will be phased in to strengthen outpatient care, the liaison teams between psychiatric services and other services, important for, among other things, eating disorders, an initiative that I set up in hospitals, structuralising and, where necessary, improving hospital capacity in child and youth psychiatry. For the 35 million there is no practical application yet. But I hope that we will be able to implement a piece of it this year and the rest next year. This includes the elimination of the under-financing of projects for children who have committed crime, the so-called For-K projects. I want to do that in the autumn of this year. In addition, I provide 16 million. We will also call on the networks to strengthen the supply for adults, including by focusing on better crisis care in hospitals. So that's 51 million in total. We have already invested 40 million in the psychiatry of children and youth, but also in the psychiatry of the elderly. Extra, in the last few months. There is also 4.7 million in the mobile teams, accounting for 50 FTE extra staff. They're here now. There is also 15.9 million for 55 psychiatric services. These financial resources have not yet all been filled in. This is intended for intensification, also with the intention that there will be pre- and post-care care so that the recording does not take too long: precaution for the recording, while waiting for recording, and aftercare, to make room for others quickly. The 15.9 million in those 55 psychiatric services is very important for pre- and post-care and for bridging waiting times and accelerating dismissal. The initiatives have not all been completed yet, but when they are all completed, it will be completed in 217 full-time units: psychologists, psychiatrists, nurses, etc. In addition, 20 million for the expansion of mobile teams for older people. You can count: 4.7 million for mobile crisis teams for children and young people, 15.9 million for intensive care in 55 child psychiatric services, and 20 million for mobile teams for older people. That's 40 million euros, all put together. That 40 million has been invested, but not quite turned into effective personnel on the ground, but still quite a lot. 51 million still to come. That's 91 million together. 112 million has not yet been fully rolled out, but we are rolling them out in primary care. In total, this amounts to more than EUR 200 million. One of the questions referred to the media report that only EUR 20 million is available and that is a drop on a hot plate. Of course, we're taking a lot more than 20 million for this. I am sorry that this is not included in the coverage. Although these investments still need to be rolled out, I am putting pressure on them and the fact that we are saying this also puts pressure on the networks to roll out the initiatives. The money's here. I'm putting pressure on the hospitals to make full use of the money there is. It is about more than 200 million euros, which we invest in mental health care. What we saw in the Panoreportage, which I myself found beautiful and catchy, taken out of life and very rightly presented, is that there is also a shortage of outpatient specialized care, which is mainly a competence of the Länder with the mental health centres. So we will have to work on all fronts, hand in hand with the Länder. It is an extremely important yard. I call on our network coordinators to speed up; I call on our hospitals to complete the budgets made available; I call on my colleagues in the Länder to step up efforts. If that succeeds, I believe that we are taking important steps. Meanwhile, we look at many mental problems in children and young people. That's bad, it's about years of life lost in a very unfortunate way, and about whole families suffering from it, as unfortunately we could see beautifully in the Pano broadcast, as in other testimonies as in the Seventh Day. It is a good thing that this is brought to the attention of the House, and it is also necessary to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your clear and comprehensive answer. I am pleased that Sciensano organises health surveys and also pays attention to mental well-being. Everyone is convinced that we need to improve mental health, and the government has formulated the ambition to do so. The corona crisis has made the problem even more acute and has shown that we need to work on this. I am therefore looking forward to the study day on mental well-being which our committee intends to organise shortly. I think that this is necessary and can help to understand the problem even better.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u23	Minister, we discussed some of your figures last week. I'm concerned about the way you speak of the Panoreportage. You found the program catchy and the situation well pictured, and in the end you found it a pity that something was on the table, turned off as drops on a hot album. But perhaps that is also true, Minister! What's said there isn't just "grabbing"...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u24	They called 20 million euros a drop on a hot plate. That is absolutely correct, but here we are talking about 200 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u25	Yes, but if you look at what is really being allocated to the psychiatric services: 15 million, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u26	Of the 152 million euros we invest, together with the budget that was already there, there is a disproportionate amount going to children and young people. It's really aimed at kids and kids. It is a large and even disproportionate part. Mobile crisis teams for young people: 4.7 million. Liaison teams for children and young people: 15.9 million. Intensification: already 6 million out of 35 million for child and youth psychiatry that is still coming. I am not being euphoric about that, but when people give figures, I do think they should be given all of them. It is a bit of a pity that we have to comment on 20 million, which is called 'not much': there is, of course, more than 20 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u27	A part of the figures is thus not given, but your entire discourse also shows an understatement of the testimonies in the Panoreportage. Children with anorexia who do not continue to lose weight for a month or two months and cannot be cared for; I think we all know people in such situations. For example, in a testimony in De Standaard, it says: "Does my daughter have to jump off a bridge before anything happens?" After all, in that case, they will end up in the emergency. Please look again so that it will really get through. So you can really weigh and take the test: what is on the table now can really make sure that at least a quick answer to the most acute psychiatric problems comes. I also hear you saying that the children must also be able to be fired quickly. That is what you invest in, but please, first of all, make sure that the children who really need guidance or a place in psychiatry get them too. Then, for example, we should also talk about a solution to the shortage of psychiatrists. I didn't hear about that either. I also believe that the psychological consequences of the pandemic are minimized. You have said several times that you think they are temporary. However, this is contradicted by scientific insights and as a general practitioner I have never seen so many patients with mental problems, and that goes deeply. It is a two-year pandemic and the consequences on mental health have not been simply wiped out like the problem of the mouth mask, which children no longer have to set up at school. No, there have been serious mental problems and we will be facing them for years to come. The resources we use must therefore be substantially increased. Mental well-being has already been a problem for the pandemic and for now all these psychiatric problems will only get bigger. I'm not reassured by what's on the table today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. CD&V continues to argue for a growth path. You have also clearly outlined what has already been done here. However, I think we will have to make additional efforts. After all, there is a problem with the resilience of young people. It is therefore very necessary that you have a conversation with the 32 coordinators. It will have to come from there: from the first line, we need to respond in good time to the problems, which are only exacerbated by the current crisis. I very much believe in Ronny Bruffaert's paradigm switch, but it doesn't take into account the fact that there are a lot of problems already. We must also address the problems that already exist in a sustainable way. I fear that we have a great buffer that has not yet been addressed today and is still under the waterline. We also need to draw up a growth path for this: we are talking about people seeking isolation and avoiding care. For this group, we will probably have to allocate additional resources in the future. In any case, I hope that the resources you allocate will produce results quickly in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but I also think you underestimate the problem. We are really in an acute phase and too often I hear you refer to what was before the pandemic. If you say that the figures in the adults are quite stable, then they have been examined and will be, but you do not take into account the fact that most psychiatric disorders occur before the age of 14 years. The pandemic has had a huge impact on children's development. You're also right to say things about public health perspective and data, but that's about the future. Now, today our children and young people are in need. Today, therefore, we must have answers and be able to use them more on the ground. I find it very difficult with your reference to the Länder for part of the problem. Of course, the Land must also assume its responsibility. However, when I ask you whether you will focus on psychiatric follow-up care for home nurses, it is your responsibility to ensure that there is a nomenclature. There are two numbers today. Our home nurses can't go forward with that. They cannot do the necessary care and guidance when someone comes from a psychiatric centre or a psychiatric hospital. However, that is absolutely important. So I would really ask you to do something about that. As regards the liaison teams, I recall very well that an amendment by the N-VA Group was included in Mrs Van Hoof's motion for a resolution. We have committed ourselves to this and it has been approved. However, these teams are not yet operational, as they should be. Mr Minister, you can deal with these problems today. So I really hope that such a reportage or such a conversation in the Seventh Day will not have to be repeated in three months' time. We really need solutions and not talk.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u30	Mrs Depoorter, if I invest EUR 200 million more than the government you were part of, it is because I am aware of the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u31	Minister, we have approved this EUR 200 million in current cases. At that time, you were not active in politics.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u32	Minister, the authorities encourage the population to carry out a self-test before meeting with friends or family but also in the school setting. However, it is known that self-tests are less reliable than PCR tests, not least because of their lower sensitivity, but also because of the way in which they are stored or because of the quality of the sample and therefore because of its use. On the other hand, efficiency also depends on the test used, as not all brands are worth it. According to a researcher at the Sciensano Institute, "AFMPS is obliged to accept all tests which have received a European authorisation, whereas EC certificates are obtained on the basis of the evaluations of the manufacturers themselves". The data would therefore not always be correct. Finally, according to several sources, nasopharyngeal autotests are less sensitive to the Omicron variant, despite a higher viral load. Minister, Sciensano was commissioned by the Commissariat Corona to evaluate the effectiveness of the various self-tests on sale in Belgium. What about the first results of this evaluation? Have you received any information to confirm that self-tests are actually less sensitive to the Omicron variant, despite a higher viral load? What about salivary tests that some scientists consider more reliable to detect the Omicron variant? Some experts believe that it is best to do a double sampling, one in the nose and one in the bottom of the throat, as recommended by general practitioners, to better detect the Omicron variant. What do you think? Are manufacturers ready to review their product to allow this dual type of sampling? Madam President, I will follow up on my second question. Minister, the Ministers of Health have recently met to discuss the future of our strategy to combat covid and, in particular, from the perspective of testing policy. According to Commissioner Corona Pedro Facon, testing would cost the state about €3 million every day. An expenditure that appears to be in question because of the current context of the Omicron variant and the slowing down of the epidemic. Thus, based on the opinion of the Risk Management Group (RMG) and the Risk Assessment Group (RAG), different scenarios have been devised. A first line mentioned would be to layer the testing policy on the corona barometer. The rules would therefore be more or less strict according to the colour code in force, namely red, orange or yellow. A second avenue would be to rely on earlier indicators in the first line, such as the increase in the number of consultations among general practitioners via symptomatic patients. Minister, there are advantages and disadvantages to both scenarios. Could you give us a concrete explanation of the situation? Which of these two solutions do you think would be the most effective and easy to apply? In the event that the ministers decide to validate the second option, the general practitioners, who have already been in high demand since the beginning of the crisis, would find themselves all the more involved in the testing process. How can this be done without unduly increasing their workload? Have general practitioners been included in the discussions on this topic? If so, what is their opinion on the matter? Finally, in the event that neither of these two scenarios can agree, are there any other solutions under consideration?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u33	Madam President, Minister, my question is again about the health survey, which examined whether or not people wanted to be tested. For the sake of completeness, I would like to say that this was a survey that was conducted before the amended test policy. At that time, only 35% of adults who had mild to moderate symptoms were tested by PCR. And that at a time when it was called upon to do so effectively in those cases. The participants who had symptoms but were not tested indicated that they did so because they actually assumed that those symptoms were not a reason to be tested. It was just over half of the respondents. 22 % took a self-test which proved negative, and found that sufficient. A smaller proportion, 14% thought the symptoms were due to health problems other than coronavirus infection. 15% of adults also indicated that the Belgian government's evaluation tool had been used in the past two weeks, but 25% of respondents did not even know of the existence of that tool. I believe that this is a worrying number. How do you look back on that? We may later find ourselves in a situation in which we need to adapt and extend the testing policy. I believe that such a self-test can be an added value. Do you have any ideas about how you'd do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u34	Madam President, Minister, the ECDC drew up a report on the testing strategy in our country. As a result, you held a discussion at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on the Test Strategy. A long-term vision should be sought. I would just like to remind you that the test strategy has not always run smoothly. In the beginning there were huge shortages by the monopolies on the test kits and by the contracts with the pharmaceutical industry. The commercial labs also wanted to process a lot of volume in order to make a lot of profit. As a result, they sometimes had to wait a very long time for the results. Several times the test strategy was then adjusted, a bit panicked always. Even now, since January 16, only people with symptoms can get a PCR test. Asymptomatic cases, for example after high risk contacts, will not be reimbursed for the PCR test. There are a lot of questions to ask about that. What exactly was discussed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on 16 February? What are the preliminary conclusions? How do you see the evolution against the next Inter-Ministerial Conference, scheduled for 17 March? Do you have any idea if there is a higher percentage of PCR tests in Belgium than in other countries? Do you experience a large lobby of the clinical labs? How do you see the long-term strategy? How do you ensure access for patients? Today there are strict criteria for a PCR test. One has to have certain symptoms to get one. But sometimes a doctor can have a reason to prescribe one. Suppose we enter the endemic phase and that testing is no longer acute. If someone has a cold, maybe he doesn't want to know if it's covid or not. But someone living with someone who's a high-risk patient might want to know. Someone who works in a retirement home with weak people might want to know, too. How will you ensure that these people do not have to bear the full cost? What do self- and quick tests take place in your long-term strategy? It is also possible to test whether it is covid with an antigen test, which is also valid for omikron, as Mrs Zanchetta's question was. Those tests are, of course, much cheaper than a PCR test. I have a few more small questions. What measures will you take to regulate the lab sector? Do you intend to reduce the level of reimbursement of PCR tests? How high do you think the real cost of a PCR test is? What's the profit margin on that today? What role do you see for primary care in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u35	Madam President, Minister, in fact, the question today is to clarify the testing and tracing strategy when we are in yellow code, which everyone hopes, and when the Covid Safe Ticket will no longer apply. It seems to me that this is the important turning point. I know that the issue has been addressed in CIM Santé, and that CIM Santé is in the midst of thinking about the use of tools such as testing, tracing or quarantine. It also met last Wednesday on this subject. Various scenarios were discussed. Basically, two scenarios, if I understand correctly. On the one hand, the possibility of integrating the testing strategy into the barometer. It's an option. On the other hand, a second option would be to monitor the situation in real time, based on the earliest possible indicators, including indicators that can be collected at the first line level. Minister, how do you envisage the testing-tracing strategy in the future? What role do you see in this strategy for the general practitioner? I think it's important. So what about the quarantine when we switch to yellow code? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u36	Mr. Secretary, the Corona Commissioner said the PCR testing was very expensive. At certain times it was necessary to be able to test and trace properly, but now a preparatory note would be drawn up to move on to another test policy. The price is therefore being looked at, in particular the EUR 3 million mentioned and at some peak moments it was even more than that. We have also received comments from the ECDC. That must be taken into account. The issue has already been on the agenda for the Health Ministers' meeting. What long-term strategy are you thinking of? What considerations are made, in addition to financial considerations? Is the new test strategy also linked to the coronabarometer, as the colleagues have just asked? How do you provide for the scale-up and scaling-up when we look at the autumn when we are likely to have to test something more? How do the prices of PCR tests in our country relate to the other EU Member States? There are self-testing on the market and in development that tests both for covid and influenza. Has the FAGG received any requests to validate them? That is, of course, not for today, but for the autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u37	Mr de Caluwe, on your various interesting observations, I can only say that one should try to use the most efficient communication possible to the people to explain what is available, such as the self-evaluation tool, and how to use it. We have tried to do so as much as possible through the press conferences that have been held systematically every Friday in the past period by the Information Cell of the National Crisis Centre, with Steven Van Gucht on the Flemish side. Mrs Moykens, who co-ordinated the testing strategy, has also often spoken there. We have tried to inform people as much as possible through the classical media. It is of course also important that the general practitioners are involved in the story and feel good about the test strategy and the possibilities offered and that they can also promote this with their patients. The figures you have quoted show, of course, that this has not been fully achieved. There remain important groups of people who are not well or even aware and also important groups of people who should actually have a test taken and do not. So it is certainly not perfect, but the only answer is communication and communication as well as ownership of the test strategy among all actors in the first line. That is why we consult with them quite a lot. ECDC has indeed made an evaluation of our strategy. That evaluation was rather positive, I would say, if I could summarize it very briefly. ECDC considers our approach, so the way we have understood and developed the test strategy, to be adequate. However, we are once again faced with a period in which we must adapt. We are now going, as indicated, for a slightly longer period of time to a period of low virus circulation or low threat virus circulation. That is when a number of points need to be reviewed. Let me start by zooming in on Mrs Zanchetta's questions about the self-tests. Then I will talk briefly about the changes to the testing strategy. Ms. Zanchetta, in fact, the Office of the Commissioner asked Sciensano to conduct an assessment of the quality of self-tests. It was agreed that the evaluation should be carried out by the National Reference Centre. Outsourcing and its financing are being prepared by contract. In the meantime, the National Reference Centre has already started evaluating five tests and the results will be known quickly. It has not yet been established whether autotests were less effective in detecting the omicron variant. Evidence in this regard is largely anecdotal, based on a few small studies. Several countries have already reported that their assessments reveal no or very little difference in the effectiveness of detection of previous variants. There is also considerable uncertainty as to the effectiveness of the different types of sampling. While these claims have been read, they are mainly based on anecdotal information and a single small study conducted in South Africa that would indicate that the samples taken from the throat give a positive result more quickly than those taken from the front of the nose. No data are available for nasopharyngeal samples. It is true that several scientists advise to play the safety card and do a double sampling first in the throat, then in the nose. The RAG testing expert group has also issued an opinion which advises health professionals to give temporary preference, as far as possible, to a combined nose-to-bra swab with a nasopharyngeal swab for the detection of covid-19 and to certainly avoid shallow nasal swabs. However, this does not apply to self-tests as they must always be used in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. Currently, these are mainly tests with a nasal swab. However, attention should be drawn to the need for care providers and the general public to be particularly careful when the result of a self-test is negative. On 16 February, CIM Santé publique analysed the opinion of the Risk Management Group in relation to the evolution of the testing, tracing and quarantine strategy applied in Belgium, while having the ECDC report. As you know, indicators are evolving positively. It is therefore a matter of integrating this development into our approach by striking a balance between what constitutes an acceptable residual risk of hospitalization and covid-19-related mortality and what constitutes acceptable control measures. As you and other stakeholders point out, this opinion of the RMG reveals two possible scenarios in terms of the conceptualization of management. The first could be to adapt the increase and decrease of the testing, tracing and quarantine strategy, taking into account the evolution of the barometer. The advantage of this approach is the clarification and consistency of the entire system, since it would be based on the same central indicator, namely the barometer. Its major disadvantage lies in its temporality. If we were to adapt our testing strategy to the barometer phase, our ability to adapt quickly to the arrival of a new variant would be limited and operational problems could arise due to too rapid a downsizing while the impact is still high. The second scenario mentioned in the RMG opinion is the adoption of early indicators and a qualitative analysis of the epidemiological situation. The advantage of this approach is obvious in that it would allow for real-time evolution of the epidemic and therefore for timely policy changes, thereby reducing de facto pressure on the health system more effectively, including the first line. The disadvantage of this scenario lies in the fact that we would have two parallel systems to judge the situation. On the one hand, we should rely on the barometer for all the rules applicable to the different types of activities and, on the other, on indicators to assess when to be tested and possible quarantine and isolation measures. The whole could make the population's understanding of the situation more complex and thus their adherence to it. The Interdepartmental Conference on Wednesday, February 16th did not give a final opinion on a new testing strategy, but it chose the second scenario as a starting point. We will therefore look at its operationalization next week. The screening strategy should, in any case, move towards greater accountability of citizens who will have to play an active role in defining the attitude to be adopted in order to avoid contributing to the infection of third parties. In doing so, it will be essential to ensure good communication with health care providers and the public. In addition, this development will inevitably raise the question of proper management of certificates after a positive test in order to reduce the administrative burden of the first line. This coordination with the first line, therefore the general practitioners, will be indispensable. Further analysis is needed to ensure coordination of operational aspects before making a final decision, and to achieve a well-founded and sustainable strategy. It is only a matter of weeks, and I will certainly come back to you once all the ministers are aligned with a joint decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand that we are still in an evaluation phase, particularly with regard to self-tests. I will be attentive to the results of this evaluation. It is true that it is important not to doubt the effectiveness of these famous self-tests, even though we know that we must always be careful about what we can read about them. It's the same with the testing strategy. We'll wait the next few weeks to see what scenario will be chosen. It is obvious that at present it is still very difficult to determine a particular scenario.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, which was once again complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u40	Minister, you said just now that we need to focus on communication. I'm sure you've lost me today. I didn't understand anything about your explanation of that altered testing strategy. All I understand is that there are two scenarios, one with the barometer and the other, and you're going ahead with the second scenario. But I didn't hear anything concrete to build on.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u41	I said we haven't finished either. We simply opted for the second in principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u42	I didn't get out of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u43	That is a general problem here. Every week you ask the same questions about things that haven't worked out completely. Then I have to tell you that that has not quite worked out. Maybe Parliament should think about that. Perhaps you should ask my staff if you already have an answer, or whether we are still discussing it. The answer is that we are still discussing this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u44	Maybe we should shut Parliament down, because you are always arguing for a very long time. I also asked whether a higher number of PCR tests were carried out in Belgium than in other countries. Do you think there's a lobby of the labs? What are you going to do for patient accessibility? Do you think that's a problem or not? What is the location of self- and quick tests? The corona commissioner has indicated that those PCR tests are very expensive, and I suggested a solution, namely more self-testing. I didn't get any answers to my questions at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u45	Mrs Merckx, you ask me if I think there is a lobby of labs. Is that a serious question in a parliamentary debate? Yeah, I think there's a lobby of labs, just like I think there's a lobby of many things. I thought I didn't even have to say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u46	I think it's important that that be said. After all, you can only tackle a problem when it is appointed. But is there a higher number of PCR tests in Belgium now? As a general practitioner, I have certainly felt that the lobby and the way in which the clinical labs work have put a brake on the roll-out of self- and quick tests, for example in general practitioners. What do you think of that? I think that's an interesting debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that you are thinking more about the second option and real-time work, relying on a number of indicators, in which the first line has a clear role to play. I would like to reiterate the importance of avoiding administrative overload among general practitioners, because this is one of the problems that we are facing today in the practice of general medicine, in particular the overload that represents the whole development of the testing-tracing strategy. You have to choose the simplest possible systems. This is a point which I think is particularly important to take into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u48	Minister, this is an interesting debate. When the colleague talks about the lobbying of clinical labs, I would like to add a lobbying of academic labs. Maybe we can discuss that in another meeting. I have not received an answer to a number of questions, in particular on the benchmarking of PCR tests in relation to other Member States, and whether there are any requests for validation of self-tests that will work for both flu and COVID-19. That could really be a game changer in the autumn and it could work very quickly and in a directional way. What I want to argue is the certificates for the general practitioners. You say that we will prepare everything in consultation with the general practitioners. That is good, but we certainly must prevent them from returning to an 'attestologian situation', as they themselves pointed out last winter. They can't go through this again. With regard to the two scenarios, which I do agree with, you would cohort and screen at a very early stage, see to what extent certain patient files have already been exposed to some kind of virus circulation and then switch the policy from there. I think this is a good thing. As far as the quality of the self-tests is concerned, I have often said in this committee that we really need to screen for them so that patients who purchase a self-test can be sure that the variant that is circulating at that time is included and that the quality of the self-test is sufficient. That should happen pretty soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u49	Minister, how is vaccination damage caused by corona vaccination monitored and monitored? Do autopsies happen if there's a possible reason to do so when you die after vaccination? Vaccination damage can be reported on the FAGG web page, both by citizens and by healthcare professionals. However, care professionals often do not have time for it. The notification form must also contain the name of the care provider. Caregivers who report collateral damage are also called on by the Order of Doctors. Therefore, because of these problems, care providers are afraid to report any more vaccination damage. Belgium also reports eleven times less collateral damage than the Netherlands, which is only 1.5 times larger than Belgium. So it shouldn't be such a big difference. More and more scientists also warn against ignoring the collateral damage and point out that the percentage of reports is just the tip of the iceberg. Why is it made so difficult for healthcare providers who report vaccination damage? Is that the case only in Belgium? Why are there so many fewer reports of collateral damage in Belgium compared to the Netherlands? Will you instruct the FAGG, for example, to provide an anonymous tool so that caregivers can report collateral damage even without fear of their career? Why is vaccination damage after vaccination against corona always minimized? For the detailed version of my questions, please refer to its written version.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u50	Mrs Sneppe, autopsy takes place in specific cases, for example at the request of the family, the court or the general practitioner or doctor. When a suspicious death after vaccination is reported to the FAGG by a healthcare professional, a questionnaire is sent asking for the results of the autopsy. In many cases, however, the family does not want an autopsy. Until December, approximately 260 deaths were reported to the FAGG, as mentioned in the last monthly overview on the website of the FAGG of 16 December. We are very transparent about that. I don't go into all the strange insinuations you're looking at. I know you're flirting with the antivax movement, so I'm not surprised.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u51	All this is neatly published on the website of the FAGG. It's about both men and women. The age varies between 17 years and 104 years, with more than 80 percent of cases occurring over 60 years. Deaths were reported in all covid vaccines available in Belgium. Of course, mentioning a death after vaccination at all does not mean that there is a causal link, so it is death because of vaccination. In the event of death, the results of an autopsy are requested, but often family wishes not to let that happen. Through the Vigilance service of the FAGG all side effects of medicines that have occurred in Belgium are collected. All reports of adverse reactions are of course also collected anonymously at European level. Our Belgian data is processed together with other similar data from European Member States. This allows not only to carry out analyses, but also to take corrective action at European level if necessary. The FAGG may decide, usually in cooperation with the European Medicines Agency, to modify the package leaflet of medicinal products. Possible adjustments include adding a new side effect or a warning to the package leaflet, or making changes to the guidelines for the use of the medicinal product. If it appears that taking a particular medicinal product has more risks than benefits, the FAGG may temporarily suspend the marketing authorisation of the medicinal product pending further examination. A temporary suspension may lead to a definitive deletion of the marketing authorisation. If it turns out that there is a problem with the quality of the medicine, the FAGG can have the quality examined. If that study shows that the quality is not in conformity, the FAGG may withdraw the lottery tickets of the medicinal product concerned. The FAGG identifies important problems with the safety of medicines through a communication on the website and/or sends a letter on the measures taken to the healthcare professionals concerned. You will find all the details on the FAGG website. We still have very little information on cases of permanent damage. This, of course, has to do with the fact that we have ongoing campaigns that started only a year ago. I don't have any other data. The FAGG never gives the name of the reporter to third parties, whether a citizen or a care provider. The same applies to the doctor's name, if a citizen would have mentioned that name, which is not mandatory. However, in order to be able to speak of a valid notification, European legislation requires that the detector is identifiable. That makes sense, too. The FAGG must be able to verify that the notification is indeed true and/or must be able to contact the reporter for any follow-up. However, being identifiable stops at the FAGG. When the reporting data is further shared, e.g. by entering them in the European Pharmacovigilance Database, this is done anonymised. The reporter or the caretaker therefore does not have to be afraid that his personal data will become known. It is true that Lareb, the Dutch Adverse Reaction Centre, receives more reports of side effects than the FAGG. That's always been the case. The reason for that is not clear to me. It could be because of a cultural difference. It may be that the Lareb has more fame than the FAGG. We must add that the Netherlands really is one of the best students in the classroom in terms of the size of the figures. Belgium is well on the European average in this respect. Moreover, the difference with the Netherlands has narrowed with regard to the reports specific to the covid vaccines. Corrected by population, the Netherlands has about 3 to 3.5 times more reports than Belgium. Anyway, with over 36,000 reports of side effects of the covid vaccines, reporting side effects in Belgium doesn't seem so difficult, to use your words. So we are absolutely not doing anything about it. However, you like to flirt with antivax and so you baptize the current question in that atmosphere. However, we are very transparent in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u52	Minister, if a critical question is asked, the word 'antivax' immediately falls. In the meantime, let's just say that this may have become a jolly name. You can find what you want from me, but I'm not an anti-vaxer at all. I am critical and I am also very cautious in certain respects. From this point of view, I ask these questions. You say that the Netherlands is the best student in Europe in terms of reporting, but you do not know what this is about. As a policy maker, I'd figure it out. It cannot be that a country which is only one and a half times larger, which has more of the same standard of development and so on, is doing so much better than our country. I would find out, and I would make it easier for us here too, for it to be better recognized, for people to know their way around. But no, if you ask questions about this, you are an anti-vaxer. You said there's little data on the permanent damage. However, I have already asked you many questions about this. Each time you replied, I flirt with the border of the antivaxers. That's just the caution I keep trying to preach here. We had very little information on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u53	We have been collecting data on side effects of vaccines in general for decades. We know a great deal, in a good way: there is no lasting damage after vaccination, these are stories that have been taken from the air. We know that about all possible vaccines. It would be strange if these vaccines were different. Of course, we can only say about a recent vaccine what we know about it recently.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u54	Indeed, so we do not yet know what can happen to these vaccines. Poliovacs were also recalled at the beginning, if I am not mistaken. We are now in the early stages of those covid vaccines. Hence my critical sense and caution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u55	There have already been around 8 billion worldwide. Mrs. Sneppe, please, initial stage!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u56	We do not know what the long term will bring. You can't deny that. We don't know yet, because we've only been going on for a year. Long term is within 15 years. Anyway, I'm probably an anti-vaxer. You say the name of the reporter is passed on to the FAGG, but that's where it stops. I ask you that question because healthcare providers tell me that they called it in, but then got the Order of Doctors up their asses. I'm not a health care provider myself, so how else would I know? I'm not sucking this out of my mind. Caregivers come to me and say it should be done anonymously. Then it would probably happen more, because now caregivers are afraid that an alarm will go off somewhere and they will get the Order on their roof. Minister, if you dismiss my critical questions as questions of an anti-vaxer, then so be it, but I will not stop asking them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u57	Mr. Secretary, Evergem's vaccination center is bored with a puncture incident. On Saturday 8 January 2022, a used syringe was unintentionally used a second time for the vaccination of a child. One of the vaccinators placed "as a joke" a used syringe in the box of vaccines, on which a colleague unsuspectingly pricked that used syringe into another child's arm and only then noticed that it was an empty, already used syringe. The re-use of a needle in another person may have medical consequences. For this reason, a blood sample was immediately taken from the injured child. In the press, we read that the vaccineers involved were immediately put on inactive for their misplaced joke. How's the kid getting along and the parents? How will this child be followed up? Are the vaccinators being prosecuted or punished? What medical profession do the vaccinetors involved perform? Can they continue to practice their profession after such a medically irresponsible joke? According to the procedure, all vaccines are first checked and then placed. How could such a medical error happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u58	After this incident, Minister, there have been incidents in which children were given wrong vaccines. In addition to Mr Sneppe's questions, I would like to know whether there is a procedure for reporting such incidents. Is there any information available on any similar incidents? Is there a procedure for notifying a particular authority?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u59	Mrs Sneppe, Mr De Caluwe, I would suggest that you ask questions like this in the Flemish Parliament. This is not about the last kilometer in the campaign, but even about the last few meters, which is the primary responsibility of the Länder. If you insist, I will ask Mr Beke to send me a report on this, but you can understand that I am not dealing with this particular case. Moreover, I have every confidence in the right approach to this matter. This was a very stupid, foolish and unacceptable joke, but I think that the Flemish government is organizing this campaign in an excellent way and provides security and is also guarding it in general, despite this unfortunate incident. Millions of vaccines have been placed and then something goes wrong because of someone who runs the risk of that happening, but if you insist, I ask Mr Beke for a report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u60	Minister, we will indeed request that report. However, it is not about trust in the vaccinators, it is about how quality assurance is done. The incident with that empty syringe is one, but there are also children who get half a dose when they need a whole dose, there are children who get a whole dose when they need a half dose. In fact, millions of vaccines are being put in place, and then something may indeed go wrong, but we must ensure that we do not find it too commonplace, that we keep our wits about it. After all, it is still about a medical operation. People don't just go into a vaccination center when they have a pint at the cafe. This medical action must be carried out with great care. You can say that it is not your competence, that it is a Flemish competence, but in your place I would have requested that report directly. But, yeah, apparently you're not worried about that doped-up kid, about those parents, about the other kids who get too much or too little vaccine. These must also be concerns that are close to the heart of an anti-vaxer. Are we getting too sloppy? Is that perhaps the price of the vaccination rush? It's a medical operation. It's also an act that can't be repaired if it goes wrong. I think you're very light about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u61	Minister, I do not want you to put the question to your Flemish colleague. We are not going to have a debate here that belongs at a different level of policy. You state that there have been few incidents. I believe you in that. I would particularly like to know if we have an idea of how many incidents have occurred. We cannot deny that these are events which undermine confidence in the vaccination campaign. If something like this happens, because it can happen, and we should not be ignorant about it, it is important that it is properly communicated. In the cases that have appeared in the press, vaccination centres and local authorities have indeed responded correctly. They've made an honest communication. They have also, as far as I can tell, taken appropriate and appropriate measures. I would have hoped that we would have had a bit of a look at how many cases we are dealing with. However, I understand that we must ask your colleague, Mr Beke. So I will certainly ask my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u62	Mr De Caluwe, as authorised ships, I will take the plume to the local government in Evergem. Mr Sneppe, I am truly convinced that every employee in a vaccination centre has done their best. Mistakes are made and misplaced jokes cannot be done, but I think we should above all maintain confidence in our many volunteers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u63	Minister, a while ago I asked for information on the omikron variant in children and whether the hospitalisation of children would increase significantly. According to doom scenarios from the United States, this was indeed the case. I am inclined to say that it has not been dramatic for our children. I am surprised that I find very little information about ongoing studies in children on virus inhibitors currently being developed or coming on the market. That is a question I am asking particularly with a view to the long term. If we are faced with variants that are dangerous for children, the question arises as to whether we are prepared to do so. Hence the question of whether there are studies in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u64	Mrs Depoorter, first of all, the incidence, severity of the disease and the number of hospitalizations are, of course, closely followed by the Risk Assessment Group. The international situation is also closely monitored, with particular attention being paid to countries where the omikron wave is more advanced than we are, such as the United Kingdom and Denmark. At present, we in Belgium do not see a more serious disease in children infected with omikron compared to other virus variants. Maintaining protective measures in schools and private care for children, such as mandatory oral masking from 6 years of age and starting the vaccination campaign for children from 5 years of age, naturally contribute to the protection of that age group. That is, in a sense, a prevention paradox. At some point we warned about the spread of the virus in children. We have taken more measures, and all in all, as you say, it seems to be not so bad, but of course that is because we have taken measures. The Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee succeeds the hospital occupation and is always anticipated to provide sufficient capacity, as you know, on the basis of indicators and also on the basis of predictions. You asked an interesting question about studies on virus inhibitors. In Europe, a dozen clinical trials have been approved for COVID-19 therapies involving children or adolescents. This is a low number, which has to do with the fact that children are not usually included in a clinical trial until sufficient data are available from adults to confirm the safety and efficacy of the substance under investigation. Three of these studies were also approved in Belgium. A study with the antiviral agent AT-527 of Hoffmann-La Roche, involving children from 12 years of age, was completed in December 2021. A follow-up study with the same antiviral agent and for the same age group is still ongoing. These studies investigate the effect of AT-527 in mild to moderate covid-19 symptoms. In addition, Eli Lilly studies baricitinib in children aged 1 to 18 years, who have been hospitalised due to covid-19. Baricitinib is not antiviral but an inhibitor of Janus kinase; it is already authorised for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and atopic dermatitis. Special efforts are being made at European level to facilitate clinical research on covid-19 therapies. An example of this is the EU for Health Joint Action in which the authorities of different EU Member States work together to rapidly approve covid-19 therapy studies. This European project is coordinated by the FAGG. So we're involved. We also pursue that good involvement in clinical trials. It is inevitable that we now only have a limited focus on what those virus inhibitors mean for children, except for the mentioned studies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u65	It is indeed more difficult to set up such studies in children. But I believe that we need to focus on that, especially when it comes to the inflammatory syndrome that children can develop after covid infection. It is therefore a good thing that we are on the role, that we are committed to it and that we are best placed to arm ourselves for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u66	Minister, shortly after the outbreak of the corona pandemic in March 2020, the President of the European Union confirmed, following bilateral consultations with Dr Tedros Ghebreyesus, Director-General of the World Health Organisation, that a pandemic treaty was needed. The European President stated that the World Health Organisation is the cornerstone of international cooperation against pandemics. He called for a treaty or a related international instrument to be drawn up in this fight to be able to achieve pandemic prevention, preparedness and response more effectively. On 1 December 2021, the General Assembly of the WHO subsequently drew up the resolution The world together. This initiative establishes an intergovernmental negotiating body to reach a pandemic treaty. A first meeting will take place on 1 March 2022 at the latest. On this occasion, a negotiating body will be set up and the working methods will be further agreed. Will Belgium participate in the process in the intergovernmental negotiating body to draw up a pandemic treaty? What role will our country take in that process? What position will Belgium take in relation to antimicrobial resistance as part of a pandemic treaty or similar international instrument? After all, as you know, a link has been established between antimicrobial resistance and combating the pandemic in corona patients. Has the Council of the European Union discussed the issues? What position does the Council take with regard to antimicrobial resistance and the pandemic treaty?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u67	Minister, Mrs De Block has already presented the introduction in an excellent way and has asked a number of questions. So I will simply ask my additional questions, firstly about the role that the WHO has already played in the first covid crisis. Do you believe that the WTO has played its role well? Where do you think there are any shortcomings? What views will our country take in our participation in the intergovernmental negotiations? What are the most important points for our country? Will you also draw attention, for example, to the monitoring of zoonoses, which is a specific risk in our country due to the dense livestock? In what areas do you think more action is needed by the WTO? In what areas should our country be able to decide for itself or intervene in the context of a pandemic? Do you see a role for more European cooperation in addressing future pandemics? What are the areas in which it is located? How do you think European cooperation fits in with the global approach?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u68	Mrs De Block, Mrs Gijbels, I will deal with your questions consecutively, but they are of course a whole. Firstly, Mrs De Block, COVID-19 has taught us that the current international framework, with international health regulations, is not sufficiently strong to ensure a high level of health safety. Our country therefore supports the negotiations on a binding treaty which should address three key issues: prevention, preparedness and - also very important - fairness of the approach. We will therefore also take an active part in the negotiations. It is a coincidence that this morning I spoke to Hans Kluge, the European Director of the WHO, on that very point. In my folders, I have re-established that you have played a very useful role in this, because you have advised on the basis of your experience and the Belgian on what it means to face such a pandemic. Such conclusions, which we must draw from the experiences of the last two years, must be translated more into a new international treaty. We are firmly convinced of this. I believe you share that belief. That was discussed again this morning during my conversation with Hans Kluge. You also specifically mentioned antimicrobial resistance. That is indeed a very important threat to our health system. According to WHO, AMR is among the top ten global health threats. In some non-European countries antibiotics are also still widely used in livestock farming, for example as a growth promoter, whereas in Europe, fortunately, they are already banned by binding regulations. Indeed, the Convention provides the opportunity to respond within an international framework to the challenges that affect AMR, such as improving surveillance and alert mechanisms, universal and equitable access to medical solutions and strengthening international health from a One Health approach. At present, however, there is no concrete proposal for a first text, and at European level too, we still have to explain how the Member States can and want to defend this together. In its decision of 20 May 2021, the European Council endorsed the opening of negotiations on an international instrument to combat pandemics in the WTO framework. There is currently a debate on whether Europe will speak with one voice in these negotiations or whether we will speak individually, country by country. You will understand that, of course, Belgium would prefer Europe to speak with one voice, as is already the case in international negotiations on tobacco, the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. I think you share that view. However, that has not yet been clarified, and discussions are ongoing. An intergovernmental negotiating body is now being set up, which will meet for the first time on 1 March at the latest, to agree working methods and timetables, and which will meet for the second time on 1 August to discuss progress. The Group will then submit a progress report to the 76th World Health Assembly in 2023. The intention is to indicate the instrument by 2024 at the latest. As far as the specific issue of antimicrobial resistance is concerned, the European position has not yet been clarified. Mrs Gijbels, you asked about the role played by the WHO. To answer that question, I would like to base myself on the independent evaluation of the global approach to the COVID-19 crisis. On the basis of the WHA73.1 resolution of the World Health Assembly, the Director-General of the WHO has set up an 'independent, evidence-based impartial, respectful and diverse' panel to examine this approach and formulate recommendations. According to the final report COVID-19: Make it the Last Pandemic of The Independent Panel for Pandemic Preparedness and Response, the WHO has done well overall, although there were also concerns. For example, the panel states that the WHO has spread the warning of the outbreak rapidly and rapidly to the countries around the world, but believes that the WHO could have also told the countries to accept as a precaution that human beings were being transferred to humans. The Panel focuses mainly on systemic aspects and concludes, for example, that the alert system does not work fast enough when faced with a rapidly evolving pathogen and that the legally binding IHR of 2005 is, in its present form, a conservative instrument that serves to reduce or facilitate rapid action. In conclusion, the WHO has responded quickly with an early global spread of the outbreak alert, in particular by announcing an emergency, but countries have waited a long, sometimes too long, time to take action. The current international health regime is therefore not strong enough and needs to be improved. That is precisely one of the main ambitions of the new pandemic treaty and of the revision of the IHR. You asked what the views were and referred to the monitoring of zoonoses. No formal detailed Belgian position has yet been established on this treaty. However, the general principles that will guide us in the negotiations on the pandemic treaty or international instrument have already been discussed. These principles have been discussed in recent months in the run-up to the negotiations on this Convention. Please also note that there is still no clear consensus on the binding nature of such an instrument, given that, for example, the United States is not in favour of it. One of our general principles is a One Health approach for the prevention and better management of future pandemics. This means that future policies, including adaptation to the international health architecture and to national emergency and other plans, must take full account of the close link between human health, animal health and environmental health. In recent decades, we have seen a marked increase in the number of zoonoses. They account for about 75% of the new emerging infectious diseases that threaten human health. In the context of the negotiations on the pandemic treaty, Belgium therefore wants a One Health prevention of pandemics to be an important element. Better monitoring of zoonoses is a necessary part of such a One World, One Health approach. SARS-CoV-2, like previous zoonoses, has shown that large-scale intensive animal cultivation can play a role not only in the development of zoonoses but also in the rapid development of variants. I am thinking, for example, of the incident with the mink farms, which were disposed of because they acted as incubators for the development of new variants. Belgium also calls for particular attention to be paid to the WHO agenda for strengthening national health systems. We therefore want to work towards more equitable access to medical countermeasures. You know the dramatic figures about the lack of vaccination in the poorer parts of the world. You ask where more action is needed by the WTO. That's where the problem is. Major issues requiring a solution are the lack of equitable access to health products, the lack of strong health systems around the world, gaps in the strong functioning of the multilateral system in the event of a pandemic, as well as financing and governance problems. There is generally a need for greater cooperation, to reduce collective risks and to strengthen solidarity in global health. You ask me if I see a role for more European cooperation. I'm sure I can see that. In terms of Europe, initiatives were also taken in the framework of the European Health Union Package, in the context of health threats within the current Treaty framework, the upgrading of the health security framework through Decision No. 1082/2013/EU/CBHD, strengthening the mandate of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control or ECDC, strengthening the mandate of the European Medicines Agency EMA and the Body for Preparedness and Response to Health Crisiss HERA. In doing so, we are striving for a stronger framework within Europe. In this way, however, we are also reaching out to the WTO for cooperation. After all, international cooperation is crucial in the context of pandemics. Important initiatives were taken under the impetus of the European Union. They need additional support to help the low and middle income countries. I am thinking, of course, of COVAX, of support for local production of health products and exchange technologies in the event of health crises, such as the creation of technology transfer centres to strengthen regulators and production skills in developing countries and the debates on the WTO TRIPS Agreement. Colleagues Gijbels and De Block, this is indeed an important agenda. Belgium is a small country, but I hope that we can play a role in these international debates directly and through the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u69	Minister, I am pleased that you believe that an international treaty is needed and that antimicrobial resistance is indeed a threat to the health system worldwide. There is also a Global Leader Group with representatives from 20 countries. I have been asked to look at the possibility of antimicrobial resistance, within the framework of the One Health principle. We're working on that final report. Among these 20 countries there are 6 EU Member States. Work is under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister of Barbados. There is also the International Negotiation Body. It's already come together once. That may have crossed the line of questioning, because it came together in January 2022. We are pleased to see that further work is being carried out, which is a very important matter. In addition to the pandemic, there are other major threats to general health. Anti-bacterial resistance is there in the top ten. We must certainly continue to work on this. Belgium is a small country, but it is also an ambitious country in that area. We have good cooperation between the academic world and the political world. Fortunately, one does not always look at the size of the country, but at the quality of what is delivered and of possible slopes that are being developed. I am pleased that you are talking about more European cooperation. I have also challenged this, and it is impossible for EU Member States to abandon their solidarity with regard to the transport of medication, vaccines and all that is required in a pandemic. The two largest Member States, Germany and France, then closed their borders and were followed by other countries. I hope that once and for all it is clear that this is not in the spirit of the European Union. There can certainly be no laughing at such incidents when it comes to people's health. Thank you again for your answer, because I am very pleased with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u70	I would like to endorse Mrs De Block's comment on antimicrobial resistance. That is a real problem and a major threat to our health. Prevention plays a major role in this. We may also be able to give viruses a chance to get into a more positive light, through the bacteriophages therapies that make more progress. The role played by the WHO in this corona crisis has evolved. There have indeed been points of interest. After all, the role of the WTO has not been unspoken. There has been some conflicting coverage of, for example, the asymptomatic spread of the virus and the mouth masks. According to many, the pandemic has also been announced too late. There are also some questions about the relationship with China. Hopefully all this will be taken into account and properly analysed and improved in these areas. I believe in greater cooperation, but I also believe in the principle of subsidiarity in terms of prevention and health care. The countries must therefore also be able to play their own role. We must ensure that we can continue to pursue our own health policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u71	Camostat has been used for pancreatic infections for a long time and the Doctor's Newspaper published that a national study on the use of that medicine in corona would be launched. How many patients are taking part? When is an evaluation expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u72	The study aims to recruit patients throughout Belgium. The goal is to evolve whether Camostat causes people with corona to heal faster, to keep them out of the hospital or to avoid death. This will require 800 to 1,300 participants. The final number deemed necessary will depend on interim analyses carried out by an independent team of international experts. That team will make recommendations to the researchers. The timing of both the interim analyses and the final end of the study depends on the number of participants offered. The analyses shall be launched as soon as the required number of participants has been offered.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u73	You can't say much yet, but it was a first publication. I'll be sure to follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u74	Minister, the coronapandemic in Europe could soon be ended, thanks to the omrikon variant, according to Director Hans Kluge of the European branch of the WHO. He talks about a pandemic endgame, after which COVID-19 is considered a seasonal flu. Kluge estimates that Omikron infected 60% of Europeans by March. That is good news, because as soon as the current wave dominated by omikron declines in Europe, there may be a month-long period of widespread immunity and therefore few new infections. According to him, this lufte is due to vaccination, but also to the fact that many people have been infected and therefore have a lower sensitivity to the virus. If it gets colder by the end of the year, COVID-19 could return, but not as a pandemic, Kluge believes:.It is likely that the region is on its way to some kind of pandemic endgame." This is based on the relatively mild nature of the omicron variant, which has been shown to be generally less sickening than the delta variant. As a result, COVID-19 gradually turns from a pandemic into a more manageable endaemia, such as a seasonal flu. Minister, what is the exit strategy or plan to exit the pandemic? What about the measures, the different phases, the testing strategy, the CST? Which organs will be involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u75	Mr De Caluwé's questions are with me, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u76	Madam President, Mr De Caluwe, what Mr Kluge said must be understood. He did not say that the corona pandemic in Europe is coming to an end. He has actually said that there is an opportunity for Europeans to use some kind of endgame, by the fact that we are in favour of a favourable season, by the increased immunity of the population through the high number of omikron infections and also by the fact that this variant is a less serious pathogen. There's still a lot we don't know. How long does immunity take after infection with this variant? How long does the booster protect us from serious illness? And most importantly, how will the virus evolve? So it is quite possible that we are going to a transition period, where periods with less virus circulation are interspersed with new impacts. The question is what will be the impact of these impacts. That will depend on the quality of our defence lines and on the management. I've been going over that with Hans Kluge this morning. We very much agree on that. The debate should shift from phasing out acute crisis measures to being prepared for the future. If we go to code yellow, there are almost no more measures. Preparing for the future involves: surveillance, well-organised health care, but also the availability of tools that will be mobilised in the event of a new outcry. In this respect, I would like to stress the importance of a structural commitment to the quality of indoor air. There, too, I am on the same page with Mr Kluge. If we go to code yellow, one of the last things that remains, as a framework policy, is to say that CO2 meters should be used to monitor air quality. Much more is not said about that at code yellow. You don't have to. But that is essential. I will therefore discuss this in depth with my colleagues in the Conciliation Committee. When we go to code yellow, we have to pursue a policy of monitoring the quality of indoor air everywhere, in cafes, in restaurants, in cultural rooms, in public places. This is important for the future. That is also important to combat the flu. But this must now really be anchored in our policies in view of the quality of our lives, the quality of dealing with our own health. The quality of indoor air is essential. I therefore think it is important that when we make the transition to code yellow, let alone when we say at some point that the barometer is simply placed on the shelf, we continue with ventilation. That is why I am advocating, within the government and with my colleagues in the sub-governments, that the federal government, which is responsible for indoor air quality, can also set up a minimal but clear federal legislative framework in this area. That debate is still ongoing. That is not an easy debate. That's something new. There's a little cold feet for that. I understand. But I believe it is absolutely essential. We must not waste our time looking into a glass ball. Is this the final end of this pandemic, or is there going to be a few quiet months? Is there gonna be another riot? How serious will it be? We don't have a glass ball. However, we have the assurance that we must be well prepared in the event of another riot. That is why I also call for us to reflect on what type of vaccination campaigns we will need, what is the operationalisation of this and what kind of testing strategy we will use. One should not maintain expensive test batteries, but should have a surveillance system for quieter moments. I am in favour of something like a covid ticket, which we will put in the slide when we are in code yellow. I would argue that we can re-activate this when it is necessary again. Only when it's necessary. I absolutely advocate that ventilation policy should be a keeper, and that we should not stop at the moment when we go to code yellow or put the barometer aside. Hopefully we can do that. It is also important that the Coronac Commissariat does not have eternal life. On the contrary, we want the Commissioner to be able to stop as soon as possible, and that is what Mr Facon wants. However, the wish is, of course, that the functions of the Commissariat should take place in our existing administrations. At federal level, this is the FPS Public Health, the RIZIV, the FAGG or Sciensano, but also the Länder have work in this area. If we are going to go to code yellow, and again: if it depends on me, we are not going to stroll, we are not going to stretch it unnecessarily, then I must not only have the assurance that the policy on indoor air quality and ventilation can be continued, but I also want to reassure you that when the federal phase is over, because that will be the case in code yellow, the functions that are now being observed by the Coronac Commissioner and all the work we have done together with the Länder, put in place and anchored in existing administrations, both federal and regional. That's very, very important. Moreover, I think that Mr Kluge and we are very much in agreement. Madam President, it would be good to invite Mr Kluge to this committee, because we very much agree on this point and he has a clear view of what is happening all over Europe. So I think he can teach us a little bit more about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u77	Minister, I agree with you that we must beware of too much enthusiasm. We have often thought in the past that the pandemic was over and we have always had to come back to that rather quickly. At the same time, the population needs perspective. We are looking forward to a new phase. I am also aware that it is difficult for you to make big statements about this at this time. It is also a good thing that you do not and that you remain careful, but I do remember that you are hopeful that we will probably soon be able to go to code yellow. At that stage there are very few restrictions. Maybe we can get to a phase without color codes pretty soon. I also agree with you that we need to make preparations. We've learned a lot over the past two years, and it's good that we anchor these things within the different administrations. But I would also like to avoid this debate in two weeks' time in order to put certain matters on the shelf dormant. We have to be careful with that. However, we must anchor the knowledge acquired so that, when it is necessary to re-introduce certain things, we can quickly switch over.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u78	Inviting Mr Kluge to this committee is always interesting. Perhaps we can do this in the context of the hearings, or at least in the context of the evaluation, which, according to the Consultative Committee, should be organised on the epidemiological value of the CST. Although the majority was not in favour of it at first, I am pleased that you are proposing this. I will give it to you in the next order of business. The fact that we need to prepare is a fact. We agree that we need to take all kinds of scenarios into account in this scaling-up and incorporate the resilience of care. We also agree on the need for preventive measures, as well as the need to monitor the population, especially with regard to the immunity of our children on the basis of serological research. But once the federal phase is over, the ball will of course be in the Lander's camp. As you say, they will then be able to incorporate this preparation into their policies on their own responsibility. This happens with code yellow and I have a lot of confidence in it. I think that the work that has been done has given us a lot of insights, but at some point this competence goes back to the Länder, and as far as my group is concerned, it can be done at any time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u79	Mrs Depoorter, you ask if we have any figures for the new variant BA.2. The evolution of the different variants and subvariants is followed by the National Reference Centre of the KU Leuven. For this purpose, a representative sample of positive tests is continuously sequenced. In its last weekly report, NRC reported that in the week of 24 January 2022 the BA.1 subtype of the omicron variant was 90 % of all positive samples, the BA.2 subtype 5.8 % and the delta variant 4 %. The share of the BA.2 subtype is increasing and it is expected that it will also replace the BA.1 subtype in Belgium. However, there is currently no evidence that this subtype causes a different disease than the BA.1 subtype or that it would be less susceptible to vaccination or other bad news. You asked for information on combinations of viruses. A new variant that would have emerged from a combination of delta and omikron, the so-called deltrakron variant, was reported by the University of Cyprus at the beginning of January, but it turned out to be the result of a contamination in the lab and not a new variant. So far, no such variant has emerged. What Christian Drosten has said is not that such a combination variant already exists, but that it is not theoretically impossible that a variant ever appears that combines the mutations in the delta and omikron variants and thus spreads quickly and is more pathogenic. So that's a theoretical piste right now. I have answers here in French to your questions. Basic genomic monitoring aims to sequence a proportion, typically between 5% and 10% of all PCR-analyzed positive samples selected randomly, to ensure some representativeness of the samples. The aim of this monitoring is to monitor the evolution of variants circulating in Belgium and to detect the emergence of new variants. When new variants are known, more targeted tests may be put in place. The National Reference Centre (NCRC) monitors the situation on an ongoing basis, including with respect to a possible Deltacron variation. The NRC report of February 15, 2022 provides details but the information is rather limited. Like I said, Deltacron, we didn't see him. So we didn't see him in Belgium either. With regard to risk assessment in this area, I am told that data from the United Kingdom are still very limited. Obviously, we're following everything that's going on. As for what was discovered in Cyprus, it was rather a laboratory contamination rather than a real variation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u80	Mr Minister, there is a little time between the first and second questions. In reply to the first question, you are talking about the story of Cyprus and the contamination. The second question is based on a report from the NHS. It does confirm that a deltacron patient has been identified. We are not really concerned about this, because the disease is not really different. However, it is important that we keep an eye on this and make an effective risk assessment of it. Once it's in the UK, it's not very far from us. We have also seen it a few times. It's definitely not a story about a lab. In one situation, we could still go along with that. With the situation of the NHS, it is much more difficult to go along with it. So I'd like to ask you to definitely monitor it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u81	Minister, reports in De Standaard dealt in more detail with the fact that many decaying corona vaccines have been found abroad and that logistical support and so on are often lacking there. However, problems were also reported in Belgium. Very often, the vaccines expire quickly. How many vaccines were thrown away at the vaccination centres because they had expired? The first line was then, and still, very little involved in the vaccination campaign. How many vaccines are thrown away in Belgium because of incorrect storage in terms of temperature or material? How many vaccines are likely to expire in the next month? I asked for absolute numbers and percentages. How many vaccines with a delay of less than 2.5 months have been sent abroad in recent years?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u82	We are not aware of the destruction of vaccines because the first line was not allowed to vaccinate yet. So I don't have any figures on that either. We are also not aware of the destruction of vaccines because they had expired due to insufficient cooling and/or material. So I don't have any figures on that either. There are no doses of corona vaccine that will expire in the next month for distributors designated by the federal government. In total, only 3,200 bilaterally donated AstraZeneca doses had an expiry date of less than two months at the time of dispatch to the receiving country. These doses represent 0.11% of the total quantity of vaccines delivered to Belgium in 2021. The exact amount available at the time of these donations is not known. In any case, the percentage of these short-term donations is very low. That does not mean that this is an insignificant issue. The ambition to donate remains great. We will undoubtedly also have many surplus vaccines if we do not immediately launch a new campaign. What you signal as a possible problem is a point of attention. Both the federated entity teams and the public health FPS teams are therefore closely monitoring stock developments, including expiry dates. These elements are discussed in good cooperation between the parties at the weekly meetings of the vaccination task force distribution working group. Vaccine transfers between federated entities have been regularly and proactively organized to optimize the use of available vaccines and avoid waste. The SPF Santé publique is finally working with the Task Force on Immunization, Foreign Affairs and Development Cooperation at the so-called BEvaccine-sharing meetings aimed at organizing international donations of vaccines via Covax and other donation mechanisms. A proactive approach is also taken here to anticipate vaccine expiry dates and to make donations that allow destination countries to administer vaccines within this validity date. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u83	Minister, what an answer. There is no monitoring of the number of expired vaccines. For a campaign where every placed vaccine costs between €74 and €94, that seems to me to be a real problem. We have had to make a lot of efforts to warm people up to be vaccinated. A lot of efforts have also been made to get the vaccines here. That's been quite a saga. In pharmacy and healthcare, monitoring the stock is extremely important. It's a lot of money. You cannot tell me how many vaccines have not been used or have not been used, discarded or discarded? I am amazed at that, and I shall continue to repeat that question. If we want to facilitate precision work - and healthcare is precision work - then the government has to keep track of those figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u84	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u85	There were a lot of questions. You ask on what scientific data do I base an interview in Humo. I would like to refer to an analysis carried out by the ECDC on the basis of pooled data reported by ten European Economic Area countries via The European Surveillance System (TESSy) for the period from 3 August 2020 to 3 October 2021. This showed that the presence of an underlying condition in children between 5 and 11 years of age was associated with a 12-fold higher risk of hospitalisation and a 19-fold higher risk of taking intensive care. The reliability is in any case around the figure 12: 9.0-16.0 confidence interval around the figure 19: 10.1-34.1. This was published in the ECDC Interim Report on Public Health Considerations for COVID-19 vaccination of children aged 5 to 11 years. The report was published on 1 December of last year. I can answer your second question as follows. The number of deaths due to covid-19 among children is very low. According to my information, there are two deaths in children between the ages of zero and four, no deaths in children between the ages of five and eleven, and five deaths in children between the ages of twelve and seventeen. Source:Mortality Survey. Since the onset of the epidemic, 960 patients aged between five and 11 years have been hospitalised. The median duration of intake of these patients is two days: quartile 1 two days, quartile 3 three days. The number of minors admitted to intensive care is 83. Long covid data shall not be collected specifically for that group. It should be noted that the clinical hospital survey is not exhaustive and therefore does not cover all but about two thirds of all hospitalized Belgian covid patients. You also have questions about my statement that vaccination for children is a free choice. That's exactly how it's agreed. The precise arrangements for the implementation of the vaccination campaign are, of course, laid down by the Communities. I do not know if I should repeat it all, but, for example, every child living in Flanders receives a letter of invitation for vaccination via the post. If the child, in this case the parents, does not respond to the first invitation, the child receives the second invitation 28 days later, unless the vaccination was explicitly refused. The invitation explicitly states that the parent or guardian will accompany him to the vaccination centre. If that is not possible, the parent or guardian must give a letter with the consent of the adult accompanying the child. Only the specific letter for five to eleven year olds, which can be found on the website, can be used. So we're not going to go on the basis of consent. An explicit consent is required either by the parent or parents in the vaccination centre or by the signed letter. As far as side effects are concerned, we know of four reports of myocardiitis or pericarditis for the United States in the European database, which may, however, be incomplete for reports from outside Europe. For 12- to 17-year-old boys, 14 cases of myocardiitis were reported after the first dose and 177 cases after the second dose via the US Pfizer vaccine reporting system per million doses. For 12- to 17-year-old girls, 1.3 and 17 cases, respectively. Of course, we do not yet have the data on long-term risks, but that is the case for every new vaccine or medicinal product that comes on the market. However, the global decades of experience with other vaccines show that side effects occur quickly, i.e. within a few days or a few weeks. In principle, all young people are eligible for vaccination. The Belgian population is 6.7% between the ages of 12 and 17.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u86	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have no further comments for the time being. I could repeat what I have noticed here on several occasions. I won't do that given the advanced hour. After all, you only have nine minutes left.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u87	Minister, there are studies in the United States on corona vaccines for babies and toddlers. Have the Task Force Vaccination and the Government already formed an opinion on these studies? Are we taking part in this? Will they also take place in our country when Europe moves to do so? Is the government considering buying and applying that paediatric vaccine when the EEA gives its approval?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u88	I see that there are still colleagues following the meeting, but I am afraid that I will not be able to answer many questions after the meeting. Madam President, you ask me if I think it is necessary to have corona vaccines for the youngest. The principle remains that a positive opinion from the EEA is first awaited. In formulating that opinion, the EEA always weighs the advantages and disadvantages of vaccination for a specific group. Then we ask the High Health Council for advice. It is on that basis that the health ministers then take a decision. You ask me if I am considering, if there were approval, buying that particular vaccine for the youngest children and in what amount. That's really not the issue yet. So I can't answer that yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u89	Mr Minister, I will reply for the next time, so that the questions put together by myself and Mr Prévot can be dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u90	Minister, I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u91	Mr Prévot, I must admit that I have a very disappointing answer. As medical waste is a competence of the Regions, I cannot speak on the subject. I hope there is no misunderstanding, but this is not within my competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u92	Mr Minister, this amount of medical waste generated in Belgium remains a concern more than ever. I hear that these powers are not within your competence and will certainly relay this concern to my colleagues in the Federal Regions and entities. Nevertheless, I would have liked to know your position on the proposals made by WHO to reduce waste. I'll try to get an answer via other channels.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u93	Mr Minister, I would like to point out that, in addition to the chemical waste aspect, for which the Länder have drawn up a regulation, Flanders has, among other things, launched public invitations to tender for the recycling of waste, vaccination centres and medical practices are also generating a huge pile of plastic. I have experience with it myself, both at home in my pharmacy and at the vaccination center. We are recycling as well as possible, of course, but that too will be a large amount of waste which must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic706x.u94	That's right. I find it two interesting questions, in all honesty. What you're saying is absolutely right. I am just a little cautious in answering questions that do not fall within my competence.
