ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u1	Madam Secretary, I would like to talk to you about the escalation in Ukraine. I know, of course, that Mrs Ponthier had an interview last week. That motion was on the agenda of the plenary on Thursday. We have already had debates on this, including in the Committee on Defence, but I would also like to question you this week, because the matter is and remains very topical. There are evolutions every day. Russia had asked the United States, on the one hand, and NATO, on the other, to provide written answers to its questions. They were delivered last week. Russia would come forward with an answer this week and I have heard in the corridors that Minister Lavrov delivered that letter today to all the foreign ministers of the 30 NATO Member States, so normally you have received or will receive that letter today. Have you received an answer from Minister Lavrov and what was in that letter? What is Russia's answer to the questions that exist? That's the essence. In addition, the question is what will happen to the diplomatic route. We mentioned the military route in the Committee on Defence, but the diplomatic route is hopefully the solution to the conflict. Let us assume that the conflict is still settled at the diplomatic level. My question is therefore very specific where we stand at the moment. Has there been an answer from Minister Lavrov and what did he reply to our letter? I would also like to mention a number of important elements for my group and for those of you who are working on this every day. In my opinion, it has failed in terms of public demands and the onlineisation of two new draft treaties by Russia, which is actually at the heart of the NATO alliance. Russia should know better than to say that we must declare publicly and on paper that a country such as Ukraine can never or never become a member of NATO. This goes directly against Article 10 of the NATO Treaty, the open policy. If a country wants to become a member, preparations can be made for this. If that country decides in sovereignty and democratic majority, it can do so, but much is important that it is always up to NATO members to decide whether or not to admit the country. It is not because Ukraine is a candidate to become a NATO Member State that it will be accepted tomorrow. Membership of Ukraine is simply not on the agenda for many reasons. In that sense, it is therefore a virtual discussion. However, this does not mean that it can be put on paper that the country will never become a member. That's just a step too far, which goes against our principles. The question of reducing or removing the weapons at the eastern border is simply unfeasible. There are no A and B members of NATO. This must remain possible, especially since most of the weapons were put there only after Russia invaded Crimea and took a lot of aggressive action towards the West. We are therefore reacting to their aggression and not the other way around. We are a defensive, defensive alliance, we are not an offensive alliance. I don't see why Russia should be afraid of us. We do not have any ambition to invade Russia or to harm Russia in any way. However, we will not be allowed to do so. That's the big difference. In my motion for a recommendation, which I have just tabled, I said that we must give full support to the eastern countries and the Baltic states. We must also be defensively ready, with our NATO Response Force, for participation in the High Readiness Initiative. We need to stand by, be alert, stand by when necessary. Our army is on its gums, but of course we still have some capacity. It's bad, but it's not like we can't do anything with our 25,000 soldiers. Madam Minister, another important additional point is that we should do even more on military mobility. We have our ports and a number of important channels. We are a logistics important country, centrally located in Europe. When weapons have to be transported quickly through Europe, they always pass through Belgium. There is still enormous progress to be made in this area. I understand that the European Union has launched a project in this area. NATO has also done so. We might be able to sign on to that. That's really necessary. It is necessary to ensure that we are effective from the point of view of military mobility, so that we can make a lot of sense in a very quick way when a particular conflict really breaks down or when there really is a fireplace at an external border of the NATO area. In this case, Belgium will have to play its part. We need to be able to make much more use of that. These are also investments that benefit our economy, the logistics hub that we are and our inhabitants. A good port connection and rail connection with Germany are also interesting for our residents and for our companies. The same applies when it comes to road infrastructure. Of course, this infrastructure is not constantly used for military purposes. During 99 % of the time it is used for non-military purposes. A lot of citizens are happy about that. Fourthly, Madam Minister, we must once again make our collective defence a priority. It is very important that we place it at the centre again. Over the past few decades, we have focused on expeditionary missions. We were in Afghanistan and Niger, and we have already been in Mali, although we are discussing this now. I'll be right back on that. We must once again return to the core of the matter, as we agreed in 1949 in the Washington Treaty, in particular collective defence. When we look at politically and globally what is going on with the struggle between the world's great powers, we can only place collective defence at the centre of geopolitical foreign and defence policy. I really want to give that advice, namely that we need to focus on that again. This does not mean that we should turn our backs on ourselves, nor that we should lose sight of the whole world. Of course, we must keep an eye on this. In this respect, however, we must first look at ourselves and ensure that we can once again defend the borders of the NATO area at a high level. That's the biggest challenge, I think. This should also be at the heart of the strategic vision and the new NATO concept that is being knocked off in Madrid. At 2.30 p.m. I have a meeting in the NATO Parliament with the Standing Committee on the text of Madrid. I think that collective defence should be given much more attention, Madam Secretary. I am certainly going to pass that on to colleagues and to our American Democratic President, who is very close to Biden. On energy independence, I had a very interesting debate with Wouter De Vriendt in Terzoe and also for Knack in a two-hour debate. It's been about energy independence for a long time. You probably didn't get much sleep, because you worked up to 3 hours on a compromise on the energy bill. It will be very tiring to come here now to answer questions. At the strategic level, energy independence is essential in the long term to turn Europe back into a geopolitical player. We are now Russia's gas slave and America's weapons lad. As long as we are, Charles Michel won't have much to say. Von der Leyen is not even invited, which also applies to Charles Michel, Borrell and European leadership. We do not play in the great geopolitical game, because we ourselves are not sufficiently on our own feet. I am always critical of the European army. You're less so. I am particularly critical because I see that there is no geopolitical European superstructure. That's the big problem. We in the EU continue to go far too far for our own interests. I think this is going better within NATO. That's what I feel after many meetings at all levels. In my view, energy independence is the most important issue. This means that in the long term they will go to a green shift. I'm not against a green shift, I think that shift can be interesting to achieve energy independence. I come to my specific question, Madam Secretary. What is the latest diplomatic situation in the Ukraine crisis? Is there an answer from Lavrov yet? What's in it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u2	Mr Francken, as you know, I had the opportunity last week to give a very long answer in this committee. In the light of the circumstances, we shall raise this subject even more in this committee. I do not mind at all, because, as you yourself have said, this is a subject that is receiving a great deal of attention from us and in which there is a new development every day. I am therefore happy to respond to this interplay. I refer first and foremost to the detailed answers I have already given, but I take this opportunity to repeat the broad lines of the Belgian position. We take the risk of a Russian offensive in Ukraine very seriously, even though the threat is not considered imminent at this stage. This offensive can take several forms: military, hybrid attacks, such as migration, cyber attacks or disinformation campaigns. In the light of rising tensions, Europe and the transatlantic community continue to support de-escalation. Whether it is NATO, the OSCE or the European Union, Belgium supports Ukraine's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity. As far as Russia is concerned, Belgium's approach is twofold. Our country is in favour of strong deterrent measures, but also of dialogue for de-escalation. That is a balanced approach. Military deterrents require NATO to be better prepared to respond to all scenarios, including by increasing its vigilance. The NATO countries put forces on standby and deploy additional ships and fighter planes in Eastern Europe to strengthen NATO's deterrent and defence attitude and to gather more intelligence. Belgium will continue to contribute to this effort with the current deployment of our F-16s in Estonia and, for the second half of 2022, with a maneuvering capacity under the Enhanced Forward Presence in Lithuania. Belgium is preparing to fulfil its commitment in case of activation of NATO's response plan, either within the framework of the NATO Response Force (NRF), or within the framework of the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force (VJTF), to which you referred. You also referred to the dual-use infrastructure. I have heard that this subject was discussed in detail in the Committee on Defence. On the diplomatic front, at the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council on Monday 24 January, I shared a message of consensus and determination with my colleagues, the European Foreign Ministers. Russia's aggressive actions are unacceptable. The EU calls for de-escalation. The price Russia will have to pay if Ukraine is attacked will be very high. The development of strong deterrent measures through economic policy is important. At EU level, a very wide set of sanctions is being finalised, which can be implemented very quickly if necessary. This package of sanctions could be activated in the event of aggression by Russia taking a different form than a military attack. I am thinking here of a cyber attack, a hybrid threat or a large-scale disinformation and destabilization campaign. We will look at what response to which aggression should be given, bearing in mind, of course, that aggression does not necessarily mean a massive invasion. It could be something else. The possible sanctions must be dissuasive in nature. This package will therefore have to be very substantial in order to have a significant economic impact on Russia. Belgium is preparing for this. Consultations are under way with the Länder and sectoral federations. Once again, our country wants a de-escalation, but to achieve it, strong deterrent measures are needed. At the same time, dialogue should be encouraged. These policy orientations were confirmed by the government at a meeting of the core on Wednesday 26 January. Since last week's debate in the Relex Group, there have been several important contacts with Russia. This illustrates that the dialogue is not broken. We support this approach. On Wednesday 26 January, the special envoys of France, Germany, Russia and Ukraine met in Paris to give new impetus to the Normandy Format, which should facilitate the implementation of the Minsk Agreements in order to resolve the Donbas crisis. This meeting did not lead to the desired progress, but the parties agreed to meet again in Berlin in 15 days' time. On 26 January, NATO and the United States submitted their written response to Russia's treaty proposals in mid-December. Those written proposals address issues in which both allies and Russia can benefit: arms control, reduction of the threat of nuclear weapons, short and medium-range missiles, reduction of the threat in cyberspace, and increased transparency about military activities. We firmly believe that there is a great deal of scope within these areas for progress to be made in order to strengthen mutual security. Russia announced that it would examine the proposals submitted in detail. On Friday 28 January, Presidents Putin and Macron called each other. That confirms that the communication channels are maintained. According to the Elysée, President Putin did not express any offensive intentions and said that he was not looking for a confrontation. This weekend, the Russian Foreign Minister, Mr Lavrov, announced that he would send further letters to his colleagues in the OSCE to clarify certain principles in the OSCE founding act and in particular on immunity. This indicates that there is still room for further dialogue. Belgium will also receive this letter officially in the coming days. We intend to respond in consultation with the EU countries and our allies. We are prepared to enter into a dialogue with Russia on security in Europe, but the debate needs to be extended. At the request of the United States, the UN Security Council discussed the situation at the Russian-Ukrainian border on Monday 31 January. This meeting confirmed the differences between Russia and the United States. However, the countries that spoke stressed to a large extent the need to get out of this crisis through diplomacy and a peaceful solution. In this context, particular reference was made to the Minsk agreements and the Normandy Format, a key element in relaunching the dialogue. The Secretary of State, Mr Blinken and Mr Lavrov will be speaking on the phone today. It was agreed that there would be several visits in Moscow or Ukraine from different Heads of Government. A next meeting at the Normandy Format in Berlin is scheduled for mid-February, as I have already announced. I come to the issue of energy in this crisis. Although we are not the most dependent on imports of Russian gas compared to other European countries, it could affect us, like all European countries. Belgium therefore pays a great deal of attention to this issue. We also welcome the measures taken by the European Union to anticipate a possible interruption in supply. I share your concern. I am convinced that the energy issue is of great geostrategic importance. This energy issue must also be dealt with at the level of the European Foreign Ministers, together with energy colleagues. This must be dealt with geostrategically and certainly at European level. Belgium is less directly dependent than other countries. Europe generally has a high dependence on Russian gas. We cannot just put that aside. That is very important in our discussion. We know this because we have already received a report from ACER on the price of gas in Europe, which also deals with Russia's geopolitical approach. So we have to deal with this in a very serious way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u3	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, your answer certainly reassures me. So far, Belgium has fully engaged in the NATO strategy. That is good in itself. You are not blind to Europe's geostrategic interests in the long term, but you are faced with them. In the coming years we will have to achieve a new balance of power with Russia, but also with China and the United States. That's what's going on. Certain forces are very europhile on this European line, with a European defence, everything European, a federal Europe and so on. In addition, there is the more critical approach, which continues to consider sovereignty of Member States to be important. That's a difficult balance. I'm about to file a motion stating the following. We must learn from this, in the longer term, that we must focus on collective defence, that we must invest in our defence apparatus. I know that a major agreement has been reached and that EUR 10 billion will be added, but that should actually be even more if we want to go along with the other NATO alliance members. We arrive at 1.54 %, but non-nuclear states already have an average of 1.7 %. We will therefore have to re-examine the debate in 2024 in order to make additional investments and make Defence assertive and alert again. There's no other way. There must also be a commitment to collective defence. Madam Secretary, stay away from Mali. I've been saying that for months. This is an ideal opportunity to move away from Takuba without loss of face. You can now say that Russia will no longer contribute to Takuba. The Malians don't want us there anymore, they don't even want the French anymore. Mali's a wasp nest, don't make it second Afghanistan. Do not send the company of 250 men and women from the Belgian army to Mali, because I would very much blame you for that. Keep them here, keep them at the disposal of the eastern border. We'll need them to defend our own territory. As far as energy independence is concerned, it is very good that you are working on it and that you are acting on it at European level and also at the level of foreign affairs. That's what needs to be done, that's a good choice. However, I cannot approve the closure of nuclear power stations in any way. I know that your party is not in favour of this either, but I do not think you will make it. For me, that is a step in the wrong direction. In the geopolitical game too, one can take small steps, but they must go in the right direction. This is a step in the wrong direction. We do not encourage energy independence by shutting down nuclear power plants and becoming even more dependent on Russian gas. That is a foolish decision in all areas: cost, energy independence and giving power to Russia. It's a foolish decision, and I know you probably agree with me. Energy independence is also a point, apart from la petite Belgique. It is important that we think about this strategically at a higher level. Madam Minister, I wish you every success and I will continue to follow this up. Madam President, I have tabled a motion of recommendation on a digital basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u4	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Theo Francken and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr. Theo Francken and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Affairs and Foreign Trade, and of the Federal Cultural Institutions, asks the government - express its unconditional support for NATO and its doctrines and principles; - confirm its participation in NATO Response Force and NATO Readiness Initiative; - to provide the Eastern allies, and the Baltic States in particular, with guarantees of our unconditional political and military support; - to re-establish military mobility and collective defence in the actualisation of the Strategic Vision; - to use the current crisis to minimise our energy dependence on Russian gas; - cancel our participation in Operation Takuba and keep the foreseen troops available for possible NATO deployment." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Theo Francken and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Theo Francken and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Affairs and Foreign Trade, and the Federal Cultural Institutions, asks the government - express its unconditional support for NATO, its doctrine and principles; - confirm its participation in the NATO Response Force and the NATO Readiness Initiative; - to give the Eastern Allies and the Baltic States, in particular, guarantees of our unconditional military and political support; - to re-establish the military mobility and collective defence of the spearheads of our Strategic Vision when it is updated; - to use the current crisis to minimize our energy dependence on Russian gas; - to cancel our participation in Operation Takuba and to keep the troops planned for a possible NATO commitment." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Michel De Maegd. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Michel De Maegd. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u5	Madam President, Minister, I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u6	Mrs Ponthier, I have taken note of the judgment of the civil court of first instance in Brussels on the complaint made by five metisse women against the Belgian State. It is a court decision, on which I will not rule. In response to previous parliamentary questions, I have already given an overview of the various steps taken to implement the 2018 Metissen resolution. We have also worked on this in recent months. For example, on 18 October last, a meeting was held between the various cabinets concerned and the associations of metisses to prepare together the state of progress on the implementation of that metisses resolution. There is also a scientific research in progress, the first phase of which started in 2019. This first phase includes the creation of a database of the individual, family and collective trajectories of the colonial metises. In order to create a dynamic with the first phase of the project, the launch of the second phase of the research project is brought forward and a cooperation agreement was signed in December between the FPS Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and the General National Archives. The aim of this second phase is to carry out a detailed historical study of the role of the civil and ecclesiastical authorities in the treatment of metises in the colonial period in the Belgian Congo and in Rwanda-Burundi. This research, initially planned for four years, is financed by the Departments of Foreign Affairs, Development Cooperation and Federal Science Policy. In accordance with the resolution, the results will be submitted to the Chamber of Representatives. Finally, there was a meeting between the associations of the metises and the Minister of Justice on the birth certificate of the metises. Together with the associations, a new proposal from the Justice Department is being worked on. In short, the implementation of the 2018 Metissen resolution remains an important focus for the government. My services will hold consultations with the various associations and stakeholders to discuss the further implementation of the resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u7	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. A proper follow-up by all parties is appropriate to ensure that the rights of the metisse children are finally respected, as should be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u8	Minister, after a period of relative improvement following the death of Pierre Nkurunziza and his replacement by Évariste Ndayishimiye, the human rights situation in Burundi is deteriorating again. The promises of the beginning of the mandate seem to be forgotten. This was reflected in a report by the NGO "Initiative for Human Rights in Burundi" (IDHB), published in early November. He pointed to the arbitrary arrests of dozens of political opponents. The authorities also reportedly allowed police officers and SNR (National Intelligence Service) "to hunt down all alleged opponents whom they consider to be a threat, and to do what they want with them". Detainees were often tortured and some would never reappear. A few days ago, the Burundian Foreign Minister announced that the future UN Special Rapporteur on human rights issues in Burundi, to be appointed next March, would not be welcome in the country anyway. In your last policy note, you also acknowledge, while highlighting progress, that Burundi "has a long way to go in terms of human rights, political openness and governance." Minister, what analysis do you make of the study of the NGO IDHB? Moreover, it is up to us that the European Union is preparing to lift the budgetary sanctions adopted in 2015 and which run, for the time being, until February 2022. Do you think, in view of these recent developments and the human rights situation, that this approach is the right one? Is this the position Belgium stands for on a European scale?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u9	Mr Ben Achour, I confirm that the human rights situation in Burundi remains a matter of concern for Belgium, despite some significant progress since the arrival of Évariste Ndayishimiye in power. The report you are referring to refers to a recent deterioration in the situation, with an increase in arbitrary arrests and cases of torture. The victims of these abuses are said to be mainly opponents and military or former Tutsi soldiers. A very worrying aspect is that this human rights violation would be mainly committed by the National Intelligence Service, which reports directly to the President. At the initiative of the European Union, a resolution was adopted in September at the Human Rights Council in Geneva, proposing the appointment of a special rapporteur on human rights in Burundi. We have obviously supported this decision, because their situation is sufficiently worrying to justify monitoring by the international community. In this context, I naturally regret the statement by my Burundian counterpart that his Government will never cooperate with the Special Rapporteur, but I hope that the Burundian authorities will engage in good cooperation with the UN human rights mechanisms; Belgium encourages them in this regard. With regard to the appropriate measures taken by the European Union under Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement, it was decided last May by the European Union and its Member States to start the process to lift them. This decision followed some positive signals from the Burundian authorities, such as the release of certain political prisoners, the release of pressure on the media and the resumption of dialogue with the international community. The Council of the European Union must therefore decide very soon on the definitive lifting of these measures, referred to as Article 96. Belgium's position at European level is to maintain a constructive dialogue with the Burundian authorities while being vigilant about the political situation of human rights. This position is shared by our European partners. The possible lifting of measures will not prevent us from defending this position in our relations with Burundi. The European Union obviously has other political levers. For example, sanctions against certain Burundian personalities will not be affected by this decision. A possible lifting of Article 96 measures, I said, does not mean automatic normalization of relations with Burundi either.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u10	Minister, thank you for these answers. I believe that we should be careful not to swim against the current situation on the spot and continue to maintain the right balance between carrot and stick, with sufficient pressure on a regime that, in my view, will not bring the improvements we want in respect of human rights. Let's stay vigilant and don't let's go down too soon!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u11	Madam President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, recent research carried out by the EuroMed Rights network has shown the importance of Belgium's foreign direct investment in Egypt. By 2020, these were nearly USD 86 million. In 2018, they even reached USD 2.2 billion, making Belgium the second largest European investor in the country after Great Britain. Today, the renewable energy sector seems to attract the attention of investors. The military's grip on the Egyptian economy is growing. It's historical. At the same time, the regime is continuing its massive human rights violations at an almost unprecedented level since the end of the Second World War. You have already stressed your firm will to make human rights a priority in our relations with Egypt. Therefore, what steps are being taken to raise awareness among companies investing in Egypt about the risk of being involved in dynamics of human rights violations? A bill introducing a duty of vigilance and a duty of responsibility on the part of companies throughout their value chains is currently under discussion in the House on the initiative of our group. Pending the establishment of such a mechanism at Belgian level, what precautions are taken to prevent our companies from becoming involved in this context of human rights violations that is absolutely obvious in Egypt?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u12	Madam President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I have already asked you several times about the question of Egypt and I wanted to ask you two questions today. The first concerns the decree which the Egyptian army has established and which obliges any NGO to register with the competent ministry before 10 January 2022, under penalty of being dissolved by administrative decision. My question is a little dated. In order for an NGO to continue its work today, the authorization of the competent ministry is necessary. However, the law and the decree very narrowly define permitted associative activities, limiting the activities of NGOs to social or developmental activities in accordance with the State's plans for the development of the country, and not tantamount to political, partisan, trade union, or contrary to public order or public morals. In this context, human rights activities are now also prohibited. Several Egyptian human rights organisations wishing to register have been able to experience this, and United Nations experts have already expressed their great concern at this new repression of Egyptian civil society. Leaders of NGOs are still accused and subject to a freezing of assets in the so-called "foreign financing" case, which is still not closed for the main independent Egyptian human rights NGOs. Madam Minister, at bilateral and European level, does the Belgian government aim to encourage Egypt not to dissolve or close independent NGOs? Will Belgium support replacing the regulatory framework for NGOs with legislation that respects the Egyptian Constitution and Egypt's international human rights commitments? Will Belgium encourage Egypt to close the so-called "foreign financing" case? Will it exert pressure at European level or on the next EU-Egypt Association Council to ensure that human rights are respected? What about the follow-up to the detention of political opponents? Today, there are 59,999 opponents, as Ramy Shaath was released, and I am sure you are happy about that. I come to my second question concerning Egyptian activist and blogger Alaa Abdel Fattah who, after two years of pre-trial detention, was sentenced to five years in prison by the Egyptian court of exception. As a reminder, this court was established within the framework of the state of national emergency declared by the Egyptian President. The verdicts it renders are, according to Human Rights Watch, a mockery of democracy. This new judicial decision shows once again the sharp deterioration of the human rights situation in Egypt under the D-al-Sissi regime. This observation had already been drawn by 31 States at the 46th session of the UN Human Rights Council. According to various organizations, one out of every 1,000 Egyptians is now in prison. I would add that the day before yesterday, the United States announced a withdrawal of funding amounting to several tens of millions of euros due, inter alia, to the failure to respect human rights. Madam Minister, what position does Belgium stand within the UN and the European Union on the issue of human rights in Egypt? Does Belgium intend to request the release of Alaa Abdel Fattah and other prisoners of political opinion in Egypt? What other diplomatic initiatives can Belgium take to ensure respect for human rights and the rights of defenders and whistleblowers in Egypt?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, the economic relations between Belgium and Egypt are indeed important. Although Egypt is not one of our country's top 30 trading partners, we regularly have an annual trade surplus. The foreign direct investment of Belgian and Egyptian companies is real, but it concerns only a small fraction of the total Belgian foreign direct investment in the world. Several Belgian companies are still active in Egypt, in various sectors such as dredging, renewable energy or construction. At the FPS Foreign Affairs level, we are involved in a number of multilateral initiatives to raise awareness of business compliance with the sustainable chain. In July 2021, the European Commission published its directive on the duty of vigilance and forced labour, aimed at eliminating forced labour from value chains. The guidelines provide concrete advice, practices on how to identify, prevent, mitigate and address the risk of forced labour. In addition, we look forward to the draft text of the European legislative initiative on sustainable corporate governance, which should include a due diligence obligation on human rights. For an open economy, like that of Belgium, the European level is indeed the right level for a binding instrument. Second, the 2018 OECD Guide on Due Diligence for Responsible Business Conduct provides private sector actors with practical support to apply the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, explaining in plain language the recommendations and provisions on due diligence. Finally, since 2011, companies have also been guiding the United Nations Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights. As regards the support of Belgian companies in their activities abroad, I refer you to the regions which are competent in this field. I share, as you mentioned, concerns about the human rights situation in Egypt, a situation that has already been the subject of many questions and answers in recent months in this committee. In your question, you refer to the joint statement on the human rights situation in Egypt at the Human Rights Council in March 2021, which Belgium associated itself with. In multilateral forums and its bilateral contacts with Egypt, Belgium has repeatedly expressed its concerns about the space of civil society, freedom of expression, freedom of association, freedom of the press and the use of anti-terrorism legislation in relation to the activism of human rights defenders, LGBTI people, journalists, politicians and lawyers. Both Belgium and the European Union were informed of the launch of the first national Egyptian human rights strategy, 2021-2026, and of the inter-ministerial body, the Supreme Standing Committee on Human Rights, which is responsible for its implementation. Belgium will monitor this implementation with interest and evaluate the strategy on the basis of concrete results. The priorities of the EU-Egypt partnership, which will be discussed with the Egyptian authorities, as well as the preparation of the Association Council, will offer us the opportunity to reiterate the importance of respect for human rights. During the last universal periodic review in 2019, Belgium recommended that Egypt address laws restricting the activities and rights of human rights defenders, the anti-terrorism law, the Criminal Code, the law against cybercrime and the law on media regulation. Human rights are systematically an integral part of our contacts with this country, both administratively and politically. In this context, we are aware of the verdict of Alaa Abdel Fattah handed down by the Emergency Court on 20 December 2021, despite the lifting of the state of emergency last October. The development and recent entry into force of the NGO Act is followed by both my services in Brussels and our embassy in Cairo. It is crucial that the law be used to support civil society actors, regardless of the field in which they operate. Belgium will continue to stress this point. In addition, Egypt must respect its international obligations under the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. In your question, you also refer to the case of foreign NGO funding. Last summer, the lifting of the travel ban on certain Egyptian civil society figures was announced in this context, although the case has not been closed for everyone and the lifting of the ban has not yet been implemented in some cases. We therefore continue to follow this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u14	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. As I said in my question, the human rights situation in Egypt has probably never been so bad. This environment makes us uncomfortable. We started this meeting with an inquiry into Ukraine. Egypt is one of the opportunities for diversification in gas supply to reduce our dependence on Russia. We will need Egypt in the coming years. At the same time, we must remain attentive to the fact that this situation, which places us in the position of applicants, does not yet give the Egyptian regime more latitude to flout human rights as it does at the moment. Another element is the organisation of the next COP in Sharm-el-Sheikh in November this year. Consideration should be given to how to – with civil society – use this COP as a lever to highlight the issue of human rights and to incentivise Egypt or demand that it show much more goodwill in its approach to respect for human rights. For the moment, there are systemic violations which, from time to time, are counterbalanced by one or the other one-off liberation, which is a pleasure for one or the other European leader, but we cannot continue like this. We will have to find an approach that will allow us to make much more substantial progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u15	I am very pleased to know that you are concerned, Madam Deputy Prime Minister. There are many questions about the situation in Egypt, which unfortunately is not improving, so there may be others. One of the questions you will be asked concerns the relocation of the Embassy of Belgium. President al-Sissi's ambition is to transfer all embassies to his "new Cairo", Al Masa, located in the desert 50 km from the rest of the Egyptian population. No one suspects a desire to be almost barricaded, but be it! You said that, as part of the preparation of the Association Council, the issue of human rights should be recalled. I wonder if we should not use anything other than the reminder, and rather condition certain things for the release of as many political prisoners as possible, for example. There are 60,000 in Egypt, which is huge. I'm joining my colleague on COP 27. Will NGOs attending COP 27 this year, activists, members of Youth for Climate who will go to Egypt risk being locked up? According to the Egyptian law in force, there is a real risk. It is not acceptable for an international meeting to be held in a country that respects human rights so little. We need to have results first.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u16	Minister, since my last inquiry on this issue in September, the health of Tunisian democracy has not improved. On the contrary, in recent days it has experienced a further deterioration of its condition. For example, President Kais Saied has taken the decision to extend the freeze of Parliament for one year. It would end on 17 December 2022, when parliamentary elections would be held. I use the conditional on purpose because there is no real evidence that we are moving towards a restoration of constitutional order. First of all, there have been many disappointments since the initial measure of July. Recall that it was originally taken for a period of 30 days. Then because Kais Saied, at the same time, announced the holding of a referendum for July 25. It will deal with amendments to the electoral law and the Constitution. Of course, there is great fear that the objective behind this agenda is to legally endorse the authoritarian tendency we are witnessing. Tunisia is one of the few countries that has managed to reap the fruits of the Arab spring and this makes the situation we are witnessing all the more worrying. As part of the exchange that we had here four months ago, you told me that you spoke by telephone with your Tunisian counterpart in July and that you also met him in New York in September. Minister, have new contacts been made in response to recent developments? What was the content of it? How is this dossier being dealt with at European level? Has a common position been reached?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u17	Mr Ben Achour, we are following developments in Tunisia with great attention. Since the President's coup de force, I have had several telephone interviews with my Tunisian counterpart. We also had an exchange of views on the margins of the United Nations General Assembly at the end of September. In our discussions, I stressed the importance of a return to institutional stability, thus to normality, in the form of a separation of powers and a reopening of Parliament. In the meantime, however, some positive points have been noted. Like all the countries of the European Union, Belgium welcomed the appointment at the end of September of a woman, Najla Bouden, as head of government. A woman head of government is unique in the Arab world. This is also a first step towards restoring institutional stability. But it was just a start. Don't think that because she's a woman, it's all forgotten. We are not here, but we must always stress that. The lack of a roadmap for a return to institutional normality and the lack of a clear deadline to emerge from the political but also economic, social and health crisis in Tunisia have continued to give rise to concerns. In the face of the stillness of the Tunisian presidency, the European Union joined the G7 representatives in a communiqué of 10 December, calling for respect for the fundamental freedoms of Tunisians, and for an inclusive and transparent political process in accordance with a precise timetable, to allow a return to the functioning of democratic institutions. The measures announced on 13 December by President Kais Saïed have indeed received my full attention and we take note of the consultation and reform cycles proposed, and above all of a concrete timetable. These are positive elements. A road map was exactly what our country was asking for. I regret, of course, that Parliament remains frozen until next year's elections. On 16 December, an EU 27 declaration was adopted on President Saïed's announcement. It expresses the cautiously positive welcome given to these announcements. We share the view that the President's statement is an important step forward. However, it must be implemented and made more concrete. The success of the process will depend on the concrete modalities for the implementation of the announced measures, which are to culminate on 17 December 2022 in legislative, transparent and inclusive elections. The return to normality and stability has not yet been achieved. While fully respecting Tunisian sovereignty, I pledge with our partners in the European Union to follow closely the implementation of this timetable, the first deadlines of which are the national consultation announced from 1 January to 20 March 2022. Finally, I call on all actors, including those in the enlarged region, to support Tunisia in this perspective of returning to institutional stability.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u18	Minister, thank you very much for your answers. I believe that we must aim at what Tunisians are aiming for, namely that the institutions as such can once again embody power and not just one person. We fear, if not feel, that this is President Saïed's vision. He wishes to be the personal embodiment of power in Tunisia. Between the writing of my question and today, there have also been attacks on Mr.Marzouki, who is the historical leader of the human rights cause in Tunisia. He was president, with little success in fact - he must be acknowledged. But still, it's a symbol that was attacked. We are also in a context of a rather serious social crisis. There's a garbage attack in Sfax, on the coast, in the south. There are unemployed graduates who are starting to move. There is the blockade of oil zones in southern Tunisia, too. Socially, the situation is not improving either. In relation to this, we see the beginnings of convergence of the opposition parties, from Ennahdha to the Tunisian left. The situation, in my opinion, remains complicated. In a respectful and constructive dialogue with the Tunisian authorities, it is necessary to ensure that the democratic train can find its way back. Indeed, as I said in my question, Tunisia was the only country that had succeeded in its democratic revolution. There was still a need for a democratic transition. And that is a very long process in which we must absolutely support Tunisia.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u19	Mr Ben Achour, I would like to make it clear that our committee has decided to invite the Tunisian Ambassador to come and tell us about the situation in the coming days or weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that there are some 30 questions left. For some of them, there are references to written questions. But you can easily understand that even by strictly enforcing speaking time, we will not be able to do so. If members who have not yet turned their questions into written questions could do so, it may lead to the exhaustion of the stock of questions, on the understanding that the minister must leave us at noon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u21	Mr President, I will follow your reasonable suggestion and refer to the text of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u22	Mr President, Mr Ben Achour, combating deforestation and forest degradation is a priority for Belgium. The accession to the Amsterdam Declarations Partnership as well as a number of recent commitments made by our country at the COP26 Climate Summit are proof of this. I am thinking in particular of the Glasgow Leaders' Declaration on Forests and Land Use, the Global Forest Finance Pledge, which aims to contribute to the fight against the systemic causes of forest loss, the Congo Basin Joint Donor Statement, which aims to support ambitious efforts in the region to protect and conserve forests, peatlands and other essential global carbon stocks. The proposal for a regulation you are referring to was adopted by the European Commission on 17 November 2021. It was then presented to the Agriculture and Fisheries Council on 13 December and to the Environment Council on 20 December. Consideration of the proposal within both the Environment Committee of the European Parliament and the Council working group begins with the French Presidency. A first meeting of the working group was held on Monday, 24 January. The overall proposal is currently being analysed in all EU Member States. These Member States have not yet taken an official position. At this stage, they have questions and requests for clarification. The first policy debates are planned by the French Presidency at the Agriculture and Fisheries Council on 21 February and at the Environment Council on 17 March. The decision-making process is expected to take about two years. This is therefore a cross-cutting issue affecting different levels of competence in Belgium. An expanded working group of the International Environmental Policy Coordinating Committee (IEPCC) has been set up for this dossier in order to be able to gather the contributions of the various authorities in the various policy areas concerned, with a view to ensuring an effective decision-making process. Indeed, in the context of these discussions, care will have to be taken to contribute effectively to the fight against deforestation and forest degradation, biodiversity erosion and climate change. At the same time, the aim must also be to put in place European legislation that allows for clear and correct implementation, control and enforcement. We will, of course, be attentive to the human rights aspect, to the support of the producing countries in synergy with the initiatives at European Union level. Belgian positions on EU legislation in preparation will be coordinated within the CCFIE and will then be approved through the DGE process. With regard to the timing and exact content of the stakes, Ms. Khattabi should be able to give you more information.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u23	In reply, I would nevertheless like to point out that European private financial actors have granted seven billion euros to six major agribusiness companies that are responsible for the destruction of forests in Amazonia, the Congo Basin and Papua New Guinea between 2013 and 2019. Banks such as BNP Paribas, Rabobank and Deutsche Bank have been identified for financing soy, palm oil, beef and paper dealers responsible for deforestation and human rights violations. I would also like to say that the European Commission has stressed the importance of redirecting private finance towards activities without deforestation. After ten years of voluntary engagement, the observation is very clear to everyone: binding legislation is now essential to achieve our duediligence objectives. That's what I wanted to conclude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u24	Mr President, Madam Minister, as you know, last summer the whole of Europe suffered from climate change: dramatic floods at home and in Germany, fires in Spain, Greece, in the Siberian forests, etc. This has shown us that the links between fundamental human rights and climate change are important. At present, however, there is no supranational, in this case European, legal mechanism to protect citizens from climate change and its impact on fundamental rights. Thus, on 29 September 2021, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe unanimously voted on the report entitled Anchoring the right to a healthy environment in which several mechanisms are proposed, including an additional protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights but also to the European Social Charter. These additional protocols, both citizens and collectives, would enable the European Court of Human Rights to be brought before it for redress as a result of environmental damage. Other mechanisms have been proposed in the report, such as a 5P convention and - you mentioned companies earlier - the idea of strengthening corporate environmental responsibility. It's important. A few days after the vote on this report in Strasbourg, the United Nations Human Rights Council, in turn, recognized the right to a healthy environment. Madam Minister, what is your opinion on the need to anchor the right to a healthy environment in the Council of Europe and its Member States? What position will you defend or will you defend on this report to the Committee of Ministers? Could Belgium also follow this movement initiated by the Assembly and reflect on the integration of mechanisms into our own national jurisdiction?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u25	Mr President, Mr Moutquin, the issue of the environment and human rights is an important issue that is increasingly being highlighted in various international forums. You pointed it out. First of all, here is an overview of the issue within the Council of Europe. The right to a healthy environment is not explicitly guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights or the European Social Charter. However, the European Court of Human Rights has already recognised that environmental factors can have an impact on human rights. The European Social Committee has recognised that the right to health also includes a right, the right to a healthy environment. Previously on the Parliamentary Assembly's vote on the report to which you refer, the Committee of Ministers gave a mandate to the Steering Committee on Human Rights to update the Council of Europe's manual on human rights and the environment, to draw up a draft non-binding instrument on human rights and the environment and to examine the need for further work in this area, bearing in mind the obligation of Member States under the European Convention on Human Rights and the evolution of the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights and national courts. The drafting group of the Steering Committee on Human Rights has completed its work on the handbook and hopes to present its draft text for a non-binding instrument to the CDDH during this year. The working group also began to consider the need for further work in this area - in other words, in addition to the non-binding instrument. The PCE recommendation - Anchoring the right to a healthy environment: the need for enhanced action by the Council of Europe - was also discussed in the Committee of Ministers. On 3 November, the Council adopted a draft decision instructing the CDDH to examine the necessity and feasibility of one or more instruments taking into account this recommendation. The CDDH is now faced with the technical task of exploring all possible possibilities and options. Belgium is in favour of a detailed study of the issue and wishes to await the conclusions, before deciding on the need to anchor the right to a healthy environment more firmly within the framework of the Council of Europe. Your last question is not a matter for foreign affairs, but for another minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u26	Yes, Minister, this is the Minister of Justice. Thank you for your answer to this question, which dealt with an essential subject. Several trials have taken place in Europe, so the case law is likely to break out. The role of this report, which is mine, is also to centralize legal instruments. The right to a healthy environment, as you said, overflows with other rights. For the moment, case law is working according to what is called a "right by ricochet". For example, they are trying to give an opinion on a right of the first generation, such as the right to life, which is affected by climate change. Updating the manual is necessary, but we will also need a tool. This demand has been expressed by thousands of young and younger people who have walked our streets for the climate. Finally, on the initiative of Mr Daems, former President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, a network of European parliamentarians for a healthy environment is being established. Its aim will be to convince the various European political decision-makers of the need to introduce this right.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u27	Mr President, Minister, I often refer to the texts of my questions as tabled, but in the light of recent developments I would like to put this question orally. We all know that rising gas prices were the direct cause of the growing unrest in Kazakhstan, and especially the displeasure of the Kazakh people against the regime. Of course, that was not the main cause, but it was the drop that caused the bucket to defect. We have seen that the President has lost control of the population for a long time, until support has come from the allies of the Collective Security Treaty Organisation. In this way, at least for the time being, the order has been restored. During the riots a lot of victims and also a lot of destruction have been caused. Madam Secretary, do you have a view of the situation of the Belgians residing in Kazakhstan? How many Belgians are currently registered in the embassy in Nur-Sultan or indicated that they would travel to Kazakhstan? How many Belgians are currently staying in Kazakhstan? Have any questions come to the embassy for assistance or support for our countrymen? There have been casualties in the riots. Are you aware of any Belgian casualties? Do the disturbances affect our diplomatic relations with Kazakhstan and/or our diplomatic post in Nur-Sultan? Is sanctions against Kazakhstan envisaged at European level, even though they are not currently under discussion? At the beginning of this meeting, Mr Francken had an interplay on Ukraine. I think we can say that we should consider a broader strategy for that region, as it appears to be increasingly unstable. What steps are you taking for this broader strategy?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u28	Minister, I'm going to go to the essentials. I have three specific questions. The repression of peaceful demonstrations in Kazakhstan took place in blood. What will be the consequences of these tragic and deadly events on the partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and Kazakhstan? There was a first deployment of a military force of approximately 2,500 troops in Kazakh territory, supported by Moscow against the appeal of the United Nations leader for human rights. What is the reaction of the European Union and your Government? Finally, what will be the consequences of these tensions and violence on the increase in the price of uranium? Kazakhstan is the world's largest exporter of natural uranium (41%). This country supplies Belgium. What is the share of uranium and gas imported from Kazakhstan into Belgium? Do we have any specific measures to strengthen our strategic autonomy in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u29	Mr President, the events that took place in Kazakhstan at the beginning of January and in particular the extent of the repression during the demonstrations called for a strong international response. In this context, from the very beginning of this crisis, I have joined the EU's declarations, which deplore the loss of human lives and strongly condemn the acts of violence. I had the opportunity to repeat this message on 18 January at a meeting with my Kazakh counterpart in Brussels. On behalf of Belgium, I regretted the heavy toll on human lives and condemned the acts of violence. I have called for a transparent and rights-based course of justice for those who are still being held. I urged him not to hinder the work of human rights organisations. I welcome the decision of the Kazakh authorities to clarify the events and share the results of this investigation with the international community, including the EU, as well as with the UN High Representative for Human Rights and the various dedicated rapporteurs involved and interested in prison and arbitrary detention, for the protection of human rights in the fight against terrorism, for the freedom of peaceful assembly and association, etc. Given that economic inequalities and political grievances are at the root of the unrest in the country, I have stressed the importance of implementing economic and political reforms to improve the well-being of the people of Kazakhstan. The meeting with Minister Tileuberdi was also an opportunity to talk about our good bilateral relations. I stressed the Belgian readiness to work with Kazakhstan to promote the role of women. We mentioned the economic potential of our bilateral relations. Despite differences of opinion on some subjects, we were indeed able to dialogue openly and without taboos. Minister Tileuberdi subsequently visited Vienna, where he met with OSCE Secretary-General Helga Schmid, among others. The Commission reaffirmed its institution's commitment to promoting security, stability and the rule of law in the Central Asian region, including and especially through its missions to the region. With regard to consular assistance during this crisis, our embassy has been in contact from the outset with the approximately 40 Belgians registered in the embassy consular register in Nur-Sultan, as well as with the three Belgians who were transiting in Kazakhstan and who had reported to our diplomatic post via the Travellers Online platform. With regard to the temporary suspension of international flights, our embassy has ensured that the visas of a number of Belgians who could not leave the country in time and before the expiry of their visa have been renewed. The travel advice on the BUZA website was updated on 6 January. The return to calm is confirmed in Kazakhstan and according to available information, the withdrawal of troops from the collective security treaty organization, announced on 11 January, is effective. The CSTO forces were temporarily deployed at the request of the President of Kazakhstan in order to secure the country's major infrastructure. Nevertheless, the triggering by Kazakhstan of the CSTO Entraide mechanism is likely to reduce President Tokayev's margin of manoeuvre towards Russia. China supported President Tokayev's reaction to the protests in order to maintain calm, given Kazakhstan's strategic importance. Like the rest of Central Asia, China is trying to expand its influence in Kazakhstan through major investments through the project of the new silk roads. In recent years, the European Union has intended to play a more important role in Central Asia, notably through the European Union Strategy for Central Asia, approved in 2019. Among other things, the strategy focuses on sustainable development, reform, transparency, regional cooperation and connectivity. The brevity of this political crisis has not been such as to disrupt the supply of oil, gas and uranium from Kazakhstan, although for each crisis markets have responded to the increase. I therefore refer you to my colleague the Minister of Energy, who has been identified this time, for further details. With regard to the question of the reception of Kazakh nationals in our country, it falls within the competence of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u30	Madam Minister, you have urged the Kazakh authorities to allow all the organisations active there to do their job. That is certainly a good thing. You have also provided a clarification of events. We know very little about what really happened in Kazakhstan. We're looking forward to that. I am also glad to hear that there was direct contact with the Belgians who live in Kazakhstan. The application of Travellers Online and the importance of filling it in is demonstrated once again. So three people could be helped or made contact with them. I would also like to thank our diplomatic post in Kazakhstan and the people who work there for extending the visa for those who needed it. You also say that the unrest in the region has a negative impact on energy prices. We have every interest in ensuring stability in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed response and for your firm position in favour of freedom of demonstration and in defence of human rights. I also thank the FPS Foreign Affairs and its diplomatic post on the spot for consular assistance and their immediate response. The European Parliament and several NGOs have called for an international investigation into the bloody repression of peaceful demonstrations. I sincerely hope that our country will support this call for an independent international investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u32	Madam Minister, thank you for your detailed reply and for your attention to human rights, which you also showed at your meeting with the Minister for Foreign Affairs in Kazakhstan. I was very curious to hear the Minister's response and whether the regime is open to carrying out any reforms, but you replied that there are differences of opinion on certain issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u33	Mr President, I thank the minister for her answer. I too can only encourage our country to remain vigilant on this issue and on respect for the right to demonstrate. I encourage Belgium to support an independent international investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u34	Mr President, Mrs Verhaert, developments on women's rights in Poland, specifically with regard to reproductive and sexual rights, are a great concern for Belgium and are closely monitored by my services. There are also regular contacts with Polish civil society organisations. It is therefore legitimate to ask questions about a legislative proposal aimed at increasing the centralisation of medical data, in particular with regard to pregnancies. I fully share your concern. First of all, I would like to clarify a number of points. According to my information, the bill to which you refer does not provide for the creation of a separate or new specific database. It does foresee that pregnancy data would be added to the central medical file. There is therefore no obligation for women to register a pregnancy. All medical staff shall be required, if a medical examination reveals that the patient is pregnant, to indicate this in the Central Health Register. In order to justify this, the Polish authorities rely on EU legislation which recommends such a digital central register as a best practice, the medical need to have the right information and medication in case of emergency, facilitate the reimbursement of necessary medicines and give priority to certain groups, including pregnant women, in medical services. According to the Polish authorities, the information contained in the digital medical file is not intended for examination or follow-up but only to provide the doctors concerned with the necessary information for each specific patient. Access to these data shall be limited to the enrolling physician, the healthcare professional and emergency medical staff chosen by the patient, with the agreement of the patient concerned. It is currently a legislative proposal, which was published on 8 November 2021 and currently before public consultation. The proposal foresees that the new scheme would start on 1 July 2022. Although, in practice, it amounts to a best practice and is encouraged by the EU, the legislative proposal raises suspicion by politicising the dossier in Poland. We are therefore following the dossier very closely. If certain elements of this law remain problematic, either in the light of European legislation or in the light of the values we defend, I will not fail to express our concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u35	Madam Secretary, I remain very suspicious. We are both liberals and I am shuddering about the way things are going in Poland at the moment. At least I'm glad you're following it so closely. It is necessary that the government continues to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u36	Simon Moutquin(Ecolo-Groen): Mr.President, I turn my questions Nos. 55023848C and 55023958C into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u37	Madam Minister, on Monday 10 January the ministers and secretaries of state of the new Rutte IV government were sworn in in the Netherlands. The parties remain the same, but the ministerial portfolios were thoroughly shaken. As the largest government party, the Liberal VVD provides the Prime Minister and no less than 7 ministers and 3 State Secretarys. The Liberal D66 is also well represented and takes on important powers. Liesje Schreinemacher of the VVD, a former MEP of Renewable Europe and member of the Committee on International Trade in the European Parliament, was appointed as new Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. Madam Minister, a member of the Liberal Renew Europe as a new foreign trade minister is of course very good news for close cooperation between the Netherlands and Belgium at both bilateral and European level. Rutte IV's coalition agreement makes it very clear that the Netherlands will conduct an active trade policy, with trade and investment treaties being important instruments. CETA is even explicitly mentioned. The Dutch Government's agreement on foreign trade is therefore very similar to our coalition agreement. Madam Minister, first of all, how do you view the new Rutte IV government's vision of foreign trade? Secondly, have you already contacted Minister Schreinemacher? If not, will you quickly contact your new colleague in the Netherlands and plan bilateral consultations to discuss concrete trade agreements? Thirdly, will you also take the initiative to discuss the positions on trade agreements with your Dutch colleague in order to arrive at a common position in preparation for the European Council meeting? Fourthly and finally, will you take the initiative to work, among other things, with the Netherlands on a new European consensus to pursue an active European trade policy? If so, how will you do so in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u38	Mrs Verhaert, on 8 February I will meet Minister Schreinemacher for a bilateral meeting, a few days before the European informal Trade Council meeting in Marseilles on 13 and 14 February. As always, I will be in regular contact with my Dutch colleague, both bilaterally and in the Benelux context. These contacts are crucial to align messages for meetings of the EU Council. The Dutch government agreement indicates that the Rutte IV cabinet will continue to focus on an active trade policy, with particular attention to high standards, fair production, human rights, food safety, sustainable growth and climate, which are also a priority for Belgium in the negotiation and implementation of trade agreements. In this respect, there is certainly an opportunity to continue working together. Another focus of the Dutch government is the protection of entrepreneurs from unwanted investment and unfair competition. Ensuring a level playing field is also an important condition for the Belgian Government to be able to conduct fair trade. Finally, I can confirm that Belgium, together with the Netherlands and other like-minded Member States, will continue to promote an ambitious, open and sustainable trade policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u39	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I'm glad you see, like me, as an opportunity for further cooperation. It remains very important to maintain good contacts with the Netherlands in the field of trade files in preparation for the Council. I look forward to the results of this close cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u40	Madam Prime Minister, on 6 December 2021 the European Parliament and the Council reached a political agreement making 2022 the European Year of Youth. I think we can obviously be happy about that. This is a great opportunity to put youth at the centre of our concerns. This brings me to two questions. The main competences in the field of youth in the field of the Communities, what coordination do you intend to put in place so that Belgium can make its full contribution to this European Year of Youth? In the field of its competences (defence, the fight against poverty, etc.)What actions will be taken by your Government in this context? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u41	That is well said, and briefly!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u42	Dear colleague, the Member States have been invited by the European Commission to designate national contact points for the European Year of Youth before 26 October 2021. Since youth is part of the Community domain, Belgium has been able to designate three national contact points, one per Community. These are Mrs Lena Pankert for the German-speaking Community, Mrs Florence Cassart for the French Community and Mr Jan Vanhee for the Flemish Community. Belgian coordination on European youth-related work is as usual through intra-Belgian youth consultation and, if necessary, through DG coordination organised by the SPF Foreign Affairs. Throughout 2022, the Commission will coordinate a series of activities in close contact with the European Parliament, Member States, regional and local authorities, youth organisations and young people themselves in the context of the European Year of Youth in 2022. Belgium has agreed to work closely with the National Youth Councils, the whole youth sector and the Council of Europe in the framework of the European Year of Youth. Apart from the initiative launched by the Commission, many activities were already planned in Belgium for 2022, by and for the youth sector. In this context, they will be placed under the label of the European Year of Youth 2022. The national coordinators will continually update the list of activities on the platform set up by the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u43	Thank you very much, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, for all these explanations. I think this is really an important issue. I hope that we will always be proactive and that we will ensure that we promote our youth in the best possible way during this European Year of Youth.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u44	Madam Minister, this question was initially addressed to the Prime Minister, the events having taken place before Burundi's independence, under the supervision of the Belgian State. Therefore, it was not, I believe, foreign affairs, even though there are many implications in terms of diplomatic relations today. In October 2021, four months ago, historian Ludo De Witte published a book highlighting the involvement of the Belgian resident Roberto Regnier (Governor of Urundi at the time), the Belgian government and King Baudouin in the assassination on 13 October 1961 of Prince Rwagasore, Prime Minister of Burundi. Louis Rwagasore, founder of the UPRONA party, had called for the total independence of Burundi as early as March 1960 and encouraged the population to boycott Belgian shops and refuse to pay taxes. He had also been placed under house arrest before the communal elections to weaken the position of UPRONA. During his work, Ludo De Witte was able to access, among other things, the repressive file of Belgian guardianship and he found extremely concrete and serious indications about Belgium's role in this assassination. In committee yesterday, Mr. De Witte auditioné explained to us that archives related to this file had disappeared between two of his visits! However, no serious investigation into this involvement was carried out or at least not completed, and the perpetrators working on behalf of the Belgian-supported Burundian Christian Democratic Party were finally hanged. Minister, four months later, I imagine you had time to verify these accusations. So what is your reaction to these revelations? Is Ludo De Witte right in pointing to the "severe responsibility" of the Belgian government and King Baudouin in this assassination? What follow-up will you give to these revelations? What about these records related to this file? Have any contacts been made with the prince's descendants and/or with the Burundian government that we mentioned earlier in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u45	Madam Minister, Mr Defossé has already outlined the context. Historian Ludo De Witte, who rings a bell to many and is also known from his earlier book on the Belgian involvement in the murder of Patrice Lumumba, the first prime minister of the independent Congo, has conducted a new investigation into the murder of Prince Louis Rwagasore, the first prime minister of the independent Burundi. This showed once again a worrying finding, in particular the clear involvement of the Belgian custody authorities in Burundi, but also of the Belgian Government and even the royal family. By the way, the book has already stirred up dust abroad. There has already been some publicity given to it in the surrounding countries, including with a high-profile reportage in The Guardian. Madam Secretary, how do you respond to the revelations? What influence does the new facts have on the relationship between the Belgian Government and the Burundian Government? Following the revelations in the book on the murder of Lumumba, Parliament set up an investigation committee in 2001. Do you think that such a committee of inquiry is appropriate in this case, given the clear parallels between the Belgian role in both political murders, or should at least a judicial inquiry be opened? Does the Belgian Government intend to respond publicly and officially and, on the basis of a possible judicial investigation, also apologize to the Burundian government and population if Belgian involvement is confirmed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u46	The book by Ludo De Witte is an important contribution to the history of the decolonization of Burundi and it is a thorough investigation into the tragic assassination of the father of Burundian independence, Prince Rwagasore, on the basis of many archives long ignored. It is not for the government to respond to Mr De Witte's conclusions, now that the Chamber has set up a special parliamentary committee to examine the role of the Belgian authorities in Burundi until 1962. Firstly, therefore, we shall examine the conclusions and recommendations of the special committee. It is not, of course, for me to rule on the initiation of any legal proceedings. Finally, we did not have any specific contact with the Prince's family or the Burundian government, and we did not receive any request to do so. Note, however, that our embassy in Burundi took part in the commemorations of the Prince's assassination last October.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answers. A wound that is not properly treated cannot properly heal. I think the pain persists. So we have a fine example with the assassination of Prince Rwagasore, in the same way we have known and always know this with the assassination of Patrice Lumumba. We know that the wounds are still not closed and that there are still shades, even though Belgium has recognized its moral responsibility after 40 years of denial, a book from the same Ludo De Witte and a commission of inquiry. I believe that we must take these revelations seriously and not replay the same scenario. It is necessary for Belgium to be able to cope with its past and, in order to do so, to guarantee free access to the archives on this matter. It would also be useful for contact to be made with the family to see how it can be associated with this work. In any event, since these events took place before independence, it is clear that this is something that Parliament will have to deal with through the committee on the colonial past. I believe it will be more effective if it is done in good cooperation with the government. I hope that will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u48	Madam Minister, allow me to say that I am somewhat surprised by your reply, which was very short and which gives the impression that things are being played down and not appreciated. Should it prove that, on the basis of historical research and archival documents, it can already be demonstrated that there was a direct involvement in the murder of Prince Rwagasore, then we should not go over it lightly. It is one of the grossest forms of interference in the sovereignty of states. It is also a flagrant violation of the Charter of the United Nations and of international law. You believe that you should await the conclusions of the Congo Commission. However, it has already been pointed out that in relation to Burundi and, for example, Rwanda, not much attention has been paid to this at the moment. So it would adorn the government, should it take an initiative itself, just as it did in 2001. Your predecessor, Mr Michel, started it in his capacity as Foreign Minister. This would also be a credit to the current government, especially since we are teaching other countries about human rights, interference, crimes against humanity and democracy. Therefore, we ourselves have a duty to come to terms with this issue and at least start an investigation into the facts, if necessary through a parliamentary committee of inquiry. So we will continue to follow up on the dossier and continue to question you about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u49	I withdraw my question No 55024218C.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u50	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, France has just taken the lead in the rotating presidency of the European Council for six months, since 1 January. Among the priorities issued by President Emmanuel Macron, he has included on the agenda the promotion of linguistic diversity in Europe. In fact, in recent years, English has become a reality. We can regret that. In Belgium, we know that we must live with several idioms. It is therefore important to preserve endogenous national languages, whether they are Walloon, Russian or Flemish dialects. We are a good example in this area. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, how did Belgium accept this priority from France? What actions will the Council promote in this context? What initiatives does the government intend to take to act in this area and to defend our endogenous languages a little more?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u51	Mr Bayet, in response to your question on the preservation of regional languages, Belgium - by virtue of its history and multilingualism - obviously attaches great importance to linguistic diversity and therefore welcomes France's commitment to promoting multilingualism. Within the European Union, this linguistic diversity is enshrined in the Treaties. As such, the 24 official languages have the same legal and political value. The Union also guarantees the possibility for citizens to seize the institutions in the official language of their choice and to be answered in the same language. It is an essential democratic principle. Secondly, the European Union applies a number of legal instruments, partnerships and specific programmes aimed at preserving and, above all, learning European languages. Without listing all the initiatives that exist, I will simply mention the most important ones, such as the Erasmus+ mobility programme - which allows thousands of young Europeans to discover other cultures and languages - the global approach to language teaching and learning in 2019, the European Masters in Translation label, the financing of European literary and artistic works through Creative Europe and the European Parliament's Resolution 2013 on endangered European languages. During its presidency, France also intends to highlight the promotion of plurilingualism as a factor of mobility and exchange. This theme will be the subject of a forum held from 7 to 9 February. This initiative is taken in the field of culture, for which the federated entities are competent. As Minister for Foreign Affairs, I support efforts to promote cultural and linguistic diversity at European level, but also throughout the world. I would like to remind you that our country is a member of La Francophonie. As such, he is working to contribute to linguistic diversity in international organizations, including by actively participating in the Group of Francophone Embassies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u52	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u53	Question No 55024320C by Mrs Els Van Hoof is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u54	Mr President, Madam Minister, my question has unfortunately changed reality, since I had tabled a question about the threats of expulsion of a family to Sheikh Jarrah. In the meantime, the family has been expelled. I'm not going to go back to the situation in Sheikh Jarrah, you know her as much as I do, but I'm very worried. As a reminder, last May, it was this neighborhood, colonized under international law, which had led to waves of protests, settler demonstrations, repression and all the atrocity of the war that followed. Minister, have Belgian diplomats been among the many diplomats who went there to support the family? Do you think the Israeli authorities can define the allocation of confiscated areas? Do these events force or encourage you to accelerate the policy of differentiation that has recently been agreed within the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u55	Mr President, Madam Minister, last October, Israel described six Palestinian organizations working for the protection of human rights as terrorist organizations. In particular, they are accused of embezzling funds from several European states, including Belgium, for the benefit of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, which is included in the list of terrorist organisations recognised by the European Union. In this case, it is all the more worrying that in the state, the grievances addressed to these organizations do not seem to be based on any tangible evidence. My questions are simple. What is our country's position regarding Israel's qualification of these terrorist associations? Does this qualification seem justified to you? Does Israel, to your knowledge, have sufficient evidence of the involvement of these associations in such networks? If you feel that this qualification can be called into question, have you taken any initiatives towards your counterparts?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u56	Mr President, Mr Moutquin, I can confirm that a diplomat from the Consulate General of Belgium in Jerusalem joined a delegation led by the representative of the European Union in Jerusalem who visited Sheikh Jarrah on 17 January to observe the situation of the Salhiya family. Together with the European Union, Belgium considers that the expansion of settlements, demolitions and expulsions are illegal under international law. They exacerbate tensions, threaten viability and the two-State solution and diminish prospects for lasting peace. This was recalled in a European Union communiqué in response to the eviction of the Salhiya family, which was relayed by the SPF Foreign Affairs. East Jerusalem is an occupied territory under international law. International humanitarian law therefore applies, including the various provisions of the Fourth Geneva Convention. As far as differentiation policy is concerned, Belgium has presented to the Member States of the European Union like-minded the Belgian Government's conclusions on the subject. This briefing will continue to foster exchanges with our partners. Discussions are expected to continue in the near future. Mr De Smet, in response to your question, I would like first of all to reiterate two fundamental principles that must guide our reflection and action. First, Belgium is very committed to the role of civil society and human rights organizations as a basis for a democratic and pluralistic society in Palestine, as elsewhere. Secondly, it is also clear that Belgium treats accusations of terrorist threat with the utmost seriousness. The charges against six Palestinian civil society organizations must therefore be carefully and thoroughly assessed. As you know, Belgium and its European partners have received information from the Israeli authorities via various channels. Analyses and assessments of this information continue to be carried out in coordination with the relevant European partners. The process will be guided by two principles: it is clear that the funds allocated in the framework of our development cooperation are not intended to be used for terrorist purposes; Israeli information must be convincing in order to justify these qualifications and determine their consequences. The subject will not be avoided by any of the parties during discussions with our Israeli interlocutors. I have not yet had the opportunity to speak with the Israeli Foreign Minister since these developments. In the meantime, contacts with Palestinian civil society continue at various levels, and it is apparent that the staff of the six NGOs concerned have not been subjected to further measures since their designation as a terrorist organization. With regard to the measures to be taken to support Palestinian civil society and, where appropriate, the NGOs concerned, I invite you to address your questions to my colleague in charge of development cooperation, Meryame Kitir.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u57	Madam Minister, with regard to the question from my colleague, Mr. From Smet, I would be delighted to hear the government's conclusions, since the Danish and Irish governments have already challenged these accusations against NGOs. In addition, one of the NGOs was invited to the UN by Belgium itself, by your colleague, Mr Goffin, a few years ago, to defend children's rights. As for my questions, Madam Minister, I thank you for your answers. I am very concerned about the inhabitants of Sheikh Jarrah but also of Silwan and all the Palestinian neighbourhoods of East Jerusalem. Unfortunately, demolition threats may continue. I will conclude by saying that today, Amnesty International, the world's largest human rights organization, called a cat a cat and recognized the term "apartheid" to define the reality faced by the Palestinian people. I think it is important to use the right words to find the right solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u58	Madam Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. We will be attentive to the results of the evaluation you announced to launch on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u59	Colleagues, Mr. As Ben Achour is no longer present in our ranks, his questions Nos. 55024352C and 55024431C are transformed into written questions. Mrs Van Hoof turned her question No 55024397C into a written question. Since Mrs Rohonyi was absent, her question No 55024469C was transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u60	Mr President, Madam Minister, when the military regime in Mali recently announced that it would postpone the elections for six months to five years, while the army would tackle the terrorist groups and implement institutional reforms to ensure fair elections, the Union Économique et Monétaire Ouest-Africaine, UEMOA, on 9 January with draconian sanctions, including closing the Malian borders, freezing Malian funds abroad and suspending all development aid. They were followed almost immediately by ECOWAS, the Economic Community of West African States, and by the EU and the US. These sanctions will undoubtedly have catastrophic consequences for the population. The French army, with the cooperation of our army, has been active in the Sahel region since 2012, officially fighting the terrorism that was freed after 2011 by the destruction of the Libyan state. The people of Mali and other countries in the region have long opposed this military action, which they mainly characterize as the return of colonial occupation or presence. They are accusing the troops of fighting terrorism only slowly and, above all, of protecting Western interests in the region. Following the announcement of sanctions, the people of Mali and some neighbouring countries came on the streets massively to protest against the sanctions and against the mainly French military presence, which is increasingly seen as a neo-colonial presence. Does Belgium support these draconian sanctions against the people of Mali? If so, how do you justify that support? Do you and this government continue to support the decision to send 250 Belgian soldiers to Mali in the context of Operation Takuba, now that Sweden has recently announced that it will withdraw its troops from that operation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u61	Mr President, Mr De Vuyst, Belgium supported ECOWAS' mediation efforts in the Mali crisis after two coups. It was our firm belief that a regional solution would be more effective than a solution which would be imposed externally on the continent. In November 2020, both ECOWAS and international partners such as our country unfortunately identified a lack of progress in the transition to democratic governance in Mali. ECOWAS then imposed sanctions on 149 Malian representatives of the executive and legislative authorities and their families. After the junta announced an extension of the transitional period by five years on 1 January 2020, ECOWAS and West African Economic and Monetary Union imposed additional sanctions. These measures may be drastic, but it should be noted that basic goods such as food, fuel or medicines may still cross borders. In response to the lack of progress in transition and in support of ECOWAS, the EU adopted at the Foreign Affairs Council on 13 December a European legal framework for targeted sanctions against certain persons. Names weren't mentioned. Our country has expressed its support in this respect provided that these measures do not have a negative impact on the population and that the door to a diplomatic solution would not collapse completely. As for your question about sending Belgian soldiers to Mali, I invite you, in accordance with the division of powers within the government, to address this question to Minister Dedonder. I would like to add that last week I sat with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Mali. I have listened to his explanation of the views of the transitional authorities, but I also warned him that Mali's recent statements and actions within the EU are being followed with a great deal of caution, such as the expulsion of the French ambassador or the expulsion of the Danish military. I would prefer the various partnerships between Mali, Belgium and the EU to be maintained, but there is an urgent need for real positive action. Hence the importance of the meeting that Josep Borrell held last week with the five Sahel countries. In doing so, account should be taken of the fact that not everyone showed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u62	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. Allow me to say that the situation has been peculiar since 2020. In August 2020, the EU Envoy, Angel Losada, spoke in this committee about the coup in Mali, where the initiators of that coup were not called antiwesterns, and the coup itself would not really be a problem either. At that time, therefore, no sanctions were imposed on that coup, which was, moreover, committed in the eyes of French and other European military presence. Now that similar military entourage is beginning to become increasingly independent of the French. More and more people are losing the political control that was under President Keita. This shows that democracy is being handled in a somewhat flexible way, although it is claimed that democracy is being held high. Better the dictator you can control than the dictator you can't. In any case, sanctions are now being imposed. My question about the people of Mali refers you to your fellow Minister Dedonder, but in the end the government will have to take a collective decision. I don't think military presence in Mali is a solution. Mali does not need additional military intervention, not even from the French. Economic sanctions can be missed as a pain in the tooth. Mali must be able to set its own independent course and put its own house in order. It comes down to respect for the will of the Malian people. Recently, on 14 January, a massive demonstration took place to express the disgust of both the current military regime and the military presence and economic disruption of the country. That is why I think it is better to use the UN, with a strengthening of the MINUSMA, and to listen to and support the further political processes from the bottom up, so that the Malians themselves can exert pressure on the military regime, so that it finally listens to the demands of the people. We will continue to follow this up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u63	Mr President, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u64	Mr De Vuyst, the escalation in the Yemeni dossier is taking place against a background of rising tension on the ground there. It is also linked to recent attacks on civilian infrastructure in the United Arab Emirates claimed by Houthirebellen. The UN Secretary-General has condemned the lethal attacks in Yemen. I fully endorse that recent statement. It is unacceptable for innocent citizens to pay the highest price in that hopeless war over and over again. The principle of distinction between citizens and fighters on the one hand and proportionality on the other are cornerstones of international humanitarian law. Therefore, Belgium continues to advocate compliance with these principles, both bilaterally and in multilateral fora. Furthermore, Belgium does not support the Saudi-Arab-led coalition operating in Yemen. With regard to arms exports, I refer you to the regions, as this is a regional competence. In any case, any exports must be in line with the European framework. Finally, in the Yemen dossier, Belgium will continue to advocate an inclusive and sustainable political solution among all parties. We call for a ceasefire in Yemen and support the efforts of the UN Special Envoy Hans Grundberg to mediate and resume dialogue. The humanitarian situation as a result of the conflict is dramatic. In 2021, Belgium therefore contributed 5 million to humanitarian aid to Yemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u65	Madam Minister, I am pleased that you support the UN Secretary-General's call for the murderous blockade to be lifted, particularly by Saudi Arabia. It is the seventh year of the war in Yemen. It is currently the biggest humanitarian catastrophe of the 21st century. 20 million Yemenis are currently threatened with famine. It is a local conflict, which was hijacked by foreign geopolitical forces, who wage a proxy war there. Saudi Arabia in particular bears a crushing responsibility for the suffering of the Yemeni people. Recently, the literal and figurative humanitarian lifeline, the port of Al Hudaydah, was bombed. You referred to the regional authorities in relation to arms exports, but we can also argue in the European Union for an arms embargo against Saudi Arabia. You can also put pressure on our self-declared allies, the United States and the United Kingdom, who make lucrative deals with Saudi Arabia and Saudi Arabia continue to supply ammunition and weapons to stop those arms deliveries. I hope you will do what is necessary to cut that supply line at least. We will continue to follow up on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u66	I can assure you that the human rights situation is closely monitored by my services in Brussels as well as by our embassy in Doha. As I mentioned in the past, human rights are systematically part of our country's bilateral contacts with Qatar, both at administrative and political level. In a multilateral context, Belgium actively participated in Qatar's UPR in 2019. During the meeting with the Qatari Foreign Minister in September, I gave the same message as a few months ago in Parliament. Belgium is aware of Qatar's efforts to improve the situation and working conditions of migrant workers. Our country encourages progress. We encourage Qatar's close cooperation with the International Labour Organisation and also highlight the importance of the exchange with NGOs and the exchange within the framework of the EU- Qatar human rights dialogue. We also expressed our concern during our meeting with the Qatari Minister in December last year at the EU Foreign Affairs Council. Belgium, together with the other EU countries, takes all reports of human rights violations seriously. I can assure you that Belgian diplomacy will continue to pay due attention to the issue of human rights in Qatar.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u67	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I believe that the spicy issue of the World Cup will be discussed in the next few months. As far as the World Cup is concerned, it is my conviction that a boycott ten years after the World Cup was allocated makes little sense. That is what all the organisations that have been working on the situation and working conditions there for years are saying. They believe that a boycott would not make any substantial difference. It is, of course, very good that diplomatic means are being used to make a real difference on the ground. In the context of the resolution that we have tabled in Parliament and which is shortly to be discussed here, we will hear a whole series of organisations, so that they can develop a framework with our country so that the discussion on respect for human rights in sporting events can be held at the time of allocation and not years later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u68	Mr President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u69	Mr President, Mrs Reynaert, our country remains extremely concerned about the human rights situation in Ethiopia, both in Tigray and elsewhere in the country where it is currently restless. A joint report presented to the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Ethiopian Human Rights Commission at the beginning of November clearly shows that the armed conflict that has been going on since November 2020 is affecting the civilian population in the first place. There are serious human rights violations involving both violations of the right to life, to life in safety and to food, and the prohibition of torture, arbitrary arrest and discrimination. The sexual violence in the conflict, which particularly affects women, is also particularly shocking. The report by the UN High Commissioner and the Ethiopian Human Rights Commission makes it clear that all parties to the conflict are guilty of human rights violations. These human rights violations go beyond the geographical or temporal scope of this report. They're going on to this day. Also credible reports by independent parties document human rights violations by all parties involved in the conflict. At the special session of the Human Rights Council in December last year, a resolution was adopted that established an international committee of human rights experts for Ethiopia. This new committee has been mandated to conduct additional investigations into violations of human rights, international humanitarian law and international refugee law in Ethiopia since 3 November 2020. During the session of the Human Rights Council in July, the Committee will give an initial oral assessment. During the special session of the Human Rights Council on Ethiopia in December last year, a statement was also made by Belgium, together with the Benelux partners. It stressed the need for all parties to the conflict to realise that inciting ethnic hatred increases the risk of widespread ethnic violence, and that continuing hostilities can only lead to greater human suffering, both in Ethiopia and in the wider region. Those concerned should immediately cease violence and restore and ensure the passage of humanitarian aid. Furthermore, allegations of human rights violations should be examined in an independent and transparent manner. Those responsible must be punished for their actions, regardless of their loyalty or rank. An inclusive political dialogue is an additional condition for achieving sustainable stability and peace. An inclusive political dialogue is an additional condition for achieving lasting stability and peace in Ethiopia, which is the basis for ensuring respect for human rights. Our country will continue to defend those elements. There is currently no consensus on sanctions in the Council, but Belgium continues to advocate the use of the EU human rights sanctions regime. You already know that. Moreover, Belgium believes that an unconditional and immediate ceasefire should remain our top priority, with the support of ongoing African mediation initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic678x.u70	Madam Secretary, thank you for the update. I asked the question because the situation remains extremely worrying. You yourself have outlined that the situation is really dramatic in terms of human rights violations and the humanitarian situation. It is therefore a good thing that Belgium continues to follow that up and that we continue to have a clear position on this in the Council of the EU.
