ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u2	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 461: Goedele Liekens, Katja Gabriels, Egbert Lachaert - 578: Goedele Liekens, Katja Gabriels, Egbert Lachaert - 634: Karin Jiroflée, Ben Segers - 1530: Vanessa Matz, Catherine Fonck, Maxime Prévot, Georges Dallemagne, Sophie Rohonyi - 1670: Vanessa Matz, Maxime Prévot - 1778: Vanessa Matz, Maxime Prévot, Sophie Rohonyi - 1854: Stefaan Van Hecke, Claire Hugon, Eva Platteau, Julie Song, Séverine de Laveleye, Guillaume Defosse, Marie-Colline Leroy, Evita Willaert, Samuel Cogolati.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u3	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Hugon and Mr De Wit and Mr D'Haese, rapporteurs, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u4	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall start with a figure, because it is good to know immediately what we are talking about. According to the interesting statistics of the federal police some are apparently a big secret, but the next one we've gotten anyway, about ten assaults and ten rapes are reported daily. That is just the tip of the iceberg, because 90% of the victims are afraid or unwilling to report it, leaving a lot of things under-exposed. So there is a very high dark number. In reality, the figures are much higher. I kick an open door when I say that moral facts are very serious and far-reaching. In my view, there can be no more serious damage to physical and psychological integrity. Society, the legislator and the public authorities must respond adequately to such facts. The modernisation of our criminal law, which we are currently working on, is part of the approach to such acts. It is essential that a good framework is put in place. It is essential that the law be adapted to the spirit of the time and take into account modern phenomena such as deep nudes and sextortion, which did not exist in 1867, at the time of the drafting of the penal law. Clear and applicable definitions should be introduced. That's how the terrain can get started. That's what's happening here. It is important to register coherent and stricter penalties. It is no secret that stricter penalties may be applied for such acts. This sends a clear signal to society that we are doing something about such facts. After all, perpetrators often get off with a very light punishment; they have to write a essay, we read in the newspapers. An adapted modern law, which is more stringent and firm, can only be welcomed. However, adapted legislation alone will not suffice. What we are doing here can be useful. I have some comments, too, but you'll hear them later. We know that one in two files is being dropped today. In the end, only 14% of the cases in which the case is prosecuted are condemned. If we know that there are very few declarations, that is actually a very poignant figure. I therefore believe that it should be the ambition of everyone, at every level, to go far beyond merely writing down new legal texts or new felony descriptions. That's gotta go a lot further. In practice, much remains to be done. The Care Centers after Sexual Violence, once started by Zuhal Demir and Elke Sleurs, are a nice initiative. I believe it was a very important move in that story. But of course there is more, Minister. There's more. I believe that justice should also follow other fronts. The procedures are dragging on for far too long, as you know. There is a bill from my colleague, Valerie Van Peel, in which she would very much like to focus more on DNA analysis. That may sound very strange colleagues, but it is relevant. It may be just a detail, some say, but I don't think so. She wants to focus more on DNA analysis as evidence in vice cases. Why is that important, colleagues? Because if there is analysis material today and there has to be an analysis of it, only 14% of these analyses are available after one year. Of all the others not yet. A year! We became mad during the corona crisis if we had to wait longer than a day for the results of our test. But one must wait a year for that evidence! I believe that friend and enemy will recognise that the bill tabled by Mr Van Peel is a good proposal. There is also a need for further work on this. But that's where the brakes are pushed. And that's too bad. There are still proposals to make it easier for victims to report, Minister. Our proposal to close the doors in vice is one of those. That could help. We're not here yet. It's hanging. We shall see what the vote will be. The extension of the posting is also an up-to-date proposal. It's been up to date, not that long ago. Apparently, there must always be a serious fact before people get to know something. TBS? What's TBS now? I believe that, since the recent facts, everyone knows very well what a posting could have meant, and why it makes sense. Such treatment and follow-up, both inside and outside the prison walls, can be crucial, as this can be avoided again and thus reduce the number of victims. Thus, with the new sexual criminal law, we can make legislation today, but the work does not stop, Minister. If we go home later, we will certainly not be finished, not even with the law in itself. Your modernised criminal law has the merit that it is in place and that we can vote on it later. It is an important step, because there are good things in it, including the definitions and the heavier penalties that are foreseen. This is an important step, because our Criminal Code dates back to 1867 and needs to be reformed. We have already started this together under the Swedish Government. The sexual criminal justice part was in there, too, and it's been highlighted. The Swedish draft was further worked on, but you didn't want to wait any longer, Minister. You've been promising us a new penal code for a long time. Maybe it'll be there by the end of the year. I might find out when it's coming. It is important that this should be done, but you did not want to wait any longer and you have highlighted this chapter and already brought it to committee. This is, of course, a good signal in itself, but in retrospect that is not so obvious. I'll explain that in a moment. After all, you've been working on the design. There are other government parties and other sensitivities today, and they feel that too. The text reads and feels that it is a compromise, sometimes a fragile compromise. People notice that. During the discussion in committee, I made a very detailed point about the fact that some cutting and scraping has taken place, but we will not discuss it again. However, things were wrong and different. That's our job. I'm not going to do those debates again. We have all discussed this in great detail in committee. It is important that the text is a bit messy, but one feels very hard the compromise and it is not always a good compromise. That is a pity, because it is about such an essential matter as this. I have felt this very much in committee and I am very curious to know what the position of some of my colleagues will be, because many of my colleagues, including the majority, will ask to speak on the draft and I have not heard them in committee. However, it is a very important issue. Some of the parties were always talking. However, people felt that sometimes there was a strange atmosphere. From time to time, however, the text was changed and something was changed, sometimes we were also listened to. If we really started to point out that something wasn't right anymore, adjustments have been made. In some places there was clear criticism and not only of us, but also of the Council of State. There have been two opinions. There was serious criticism from the Attorney General. Yet the majority didn't want to move anymore. A compromise could no longer be worked out, even if it was known that it was not quite right. Then they sit down and wait until it's over. I sometimes had that impression in committee, and I find that particularly regrettable, because the subject really deserves a debate. We shouldn't be feeding it here anymore. We could have fed it there. Minister, I think we are still going to have the debate. If this law is adopted in the near future and we see something that is not complete, it is possible to do so. Afterwards, a reform always reveals things that should have been done and then we can still have the debate in committee. Something in me says we're still gonna do it. It is an important issue and I look forward to the intervention of my fellow Members. Choices have been made. There are shortcomings, and you all know that this is the way to proceed. You often called that a political choice, Minister. That's true. You have the majority, not us. That must sometimes be accepted. That's not always easy. Sometimes political choices are fragile compromises. I would like to insist on something very much, as I have already said in committee. I would very much like to be able to evaluate and correct these legal texts in the not too long term. Perhaps, then, the majority will have the courage to say that it has to be different, political compromise or not, but in the interests of the people on the ground and of the people who have to work with it. Colleagues, the fact that a whole chapter of a new Criminal Code has been picked out here and presented separately has risks of coherence. You are taking out a number of things that will be important in the new Criminal Code, but not yet applicable, unless here again. That coherence is sometimes lost. Not only have we made this point, but the Council of State has also pointed it out. He finds it strange that you do not regulate a number of aspects, although they do relate to sexual criminal law. The posting shall not be completed. You stay away from the mandatory treatment and closed doors. You don't want to touch professional secrecy. The statute of limitations has already been worked on, but you are not going to do so at the moment. These are all important things, Minister, to do something about that dark number and to get more reports. It is just as important not only to make a law as a signal but to really have an effect on the ground. So that's not gonna get touched. You will say that this is for later, when you will also deal with the rest of the criminal law. I could follow you in that if you were consistent, but you are not. You are already doing other things which are also a preliminaries of the new Criminal Code and which are even less related to sexual criminal law. The general aspect of the aggravating factors - and sorry colleagues - that is the only technical aspect I shall say - is a totally new legal figure, which we do not know about in criminal law. It'll be in the new Criminal Code, but that's what you're getting out of for sexual criminal justice. In addition to the aggravating circumstances, it will only apply to this. First of all, this will not be so obvious on the ground. Secondly, these are lists of fixed aggravating factors. One of them was in the paper today. There will be a heavier punishment in the case of rape if it has been committed because someone has been misappreciated for the sake of his syndical belief. That's just because this is a catalogue: these are aggravating circumstances and we'll apply them to everything, even if it's totally irrelevant. In some cases, it's just that it's totally irrelevant. This is an example of this. The Council of State has also noted this, but so to speak, nothing is going on. Then we don't do anything about it. Whatever you have done and what is also a preliminaries, Minister, is to broaden electronic supervision and to increase the level of service, not only for sexual offences, but for everything. You have listened to the opposition there, and I am grateful to you for that. So you've realised that you've gone a little too fast. So it will now be less open than expected. Where you have not done so, Minister, is at the time of the postponement or the postponement of the probationary period. For the non-lawyers among us, that is popularly called "the conditional." They are punished, but the judge says that they should not be served. If the trial period or certain conditions are respected, the sentence will not be enforced. However, if we do not do so, then we will get our prison ticket. Normally there is a threshold for this, whereby certain sentences may not have been given, but that is a favour. It is a favor when a judge says that the punishment is not fully effective and that part is conditional or delayed. There was always a threshold to that. We have raised that threshold once, but now that we say that we will punish sexual violence more severely, let that threshold go. No more thresholds, no matter what conviction anyone has already received, for moral facts or other, delay can always be. You're gonna have to explain that to me. I don't understand. That's completely unlike your narrative. In some cases people need to be given opportunities, and that is also worth a debate. I would very much like to have that debate, but it is global and not just in the context of sexual criminal law, because it is not just about sexual criminal law. We need to have that debate. I won't tell Mordicus this shouldn't be possible, but it doesn't belong here. That's been put into it toughly, and I also know why. The more people can be punished with delay, the fewer places in prison you have to provide, because you already have no room. This is how the execution of the sentence is undermined again. This doesn't really belong here, it's a pre-requisite. We're missing coherence. I'm sorry this is being ridden in. Of course, I didn't expect this coalition to stop it, but I'm trying to make it clear to you. We are not alone in this either; the Council of State has made that comment. However, it is a political choice, and you have said so. I have already said that I do not want to have the debate again, but there are already other issues that are starting to emerge, as shown in Pano. There is the problem of evidence in the context of spiking, with the new texts. We have not quite figured that out yet, we will see how that will be resolved. Today, in Het Laatste Nieuws, the OVB cited a number of illogical things. It is true that we corrected that penalty at second reading, and I made that point in committee, but there are still shortcomings. That is a political choice and we will not go back to that, but one important aspect with which I personally have a problem, Minister, is everything about prostitution. We had tabled an amendment to delete that chapter. I understand why you're trying to decriminalize me, but delete that chapter. Why? I would just like to explain it to those colleagues who are not on the Justice Committee. There has been an opinion from the Attorney General on this. These are not the least, they are people who are certainly familiar with trafficking in human beings, because prostitution is often part of trafficking in human beings. We will probably have expanded on this in committee soon. The PGs say that if you introduce the legislation as it currently stands, they may be able to prosecute almost nothing in the context of trafficking in human beings. It is very bad that we have to say that, because then there is nothing wrong with the definition of trafficking in human beings. The problem is that trafficking in human beings will not be dealt with until we look at the Criminal Code as a whole, and you will shed some light here. The Attorney General asked for all this to be dealt with together, when one also tackles the reform on human trafficking, because it has an impact on each other, it crosses each other and runs out of each other. We get into trouble in our investigation, in our prosecutions, the Attorney General said. That was a plea from the Attorney General. I haven't seen them say that often, but it's a political choice. Sometimes I look around at the facial expressions in the committee. This time people saw and felt that one was already a bit more along than the other, but it is on the agenda today and it is being put to the vote. Begging or not, this had to go in and it stays in. I am very sorry to hear that. Minister, you have also announced with a lot of bombabre that prostitution will be fully legalized. We all know that this is not the case. It's mostly complicated. There was a lot of criticism of your legal texts. You always say: that is not true, Mrs De Wit, people are also positive. Even those who were positive have said that there are effective problems with the text. Minister, I think it is important that a solution be found for the sector. I think we all want something to happen, but the new legislation before us today will benefit only a very small group. People will still be exploited. There will still be casualties. One will still be pushed underground. This is only a solution for those who prostitute consciously and independently. We need to find a solution to this, we need to do something about it, but we are not just going to do that with the key to the penal code. A global approach is needed. Multidisciplinary, in many ways, we must work on this. I think it would have been much more gallant, especially with the link to the trafficking in human beings that is there, if this chapter had been dealt with at the same time as dealing with other social and labour law disciplines. I know that you will work on this, but it would have been better if we had all dealt with this together. We should have listened to the advice of the Attorney General. Minister, I think that the proof of the pudding will be much faster in the eating here than one would expect. We're already reading it in the paper, with the war in Ukraine. There's taxis waiting for kids. Where are they taking these kids? Women are being pushed underground. Hopefully, the enforcement of human trafficking in these cases will not be compromised by the legislation that is being adopted, which is crucial. I'm pretty worried about that. For you, the general penalty in vice should be raised. That is all well announced, but of course it is not everywhere. Sometimes it is not equally proportional and nobody talks about it. As long as the instrument of correction continues to exist, high penalties can be entered in the law, but the penalty will always fall in order to be able to deal with the case correctly. On paper, that will be a heavy punishment, but not in fact the heavy punishment promised on paper. There are solutions for that. The N-VA has also proposed an amendment to Article 150 of the Constitution. Then we'll have to do some work on Assisen. We're not there yet, but we'd do better if we effectively punished heavily. The N-VA has approved many articles and has abstained for the rest. So we did not vote against it. It would be crazy not to approve of a draft which the Swedish Government has begun and which we have been working on. It was encrypted after that, but it would be crazy not to like it anymore. However, we will certainly not vote for the law, we will abstain. One aspect that led to this is the political choice that has been made in relation to sexual adulthood. Between 14 and 16 young people may practice a bit and a bit more as long as there is no age difference of more than three years, unless there is an authority situation. If your 17-year-old daughter is in love with the scout leader who's been around for over 18 years, then that relationship can't be. After all, that is an authority situation. In some cases, even after the adjustment, the legislation as it stands today is not entirely in line with reality. We end up criminalising crimes that we didn't want to criminalize. It would have been easier to find a solution. All these elements mean that the N-VA Group will abstain. The text also contains some good elements. I assume that members of the majority will stumble on this; I will not do so in their place; they will highlight it themselves. What I am going to deal with is the new amendment that we have tabled, in particular on posting. That is a delicate point, because it means that a person can be succeeded today after punishment, either in prison or outside prison for a maximum period of 15 years and only in a limited number of sex cases. We would like to extend that succession. If you leave me to it, I'll always make the posting mandatory for all facts and always life. Not long ago we were all equally indignant about facts that happened to kindergarten Dean. It was not possible to make them available at the time, but serious statements were made in that debate, including by you, Minister. Lifelong posting should be possible in cases such as vice facts, as you said, not only here but also in the media, including RTL. I heard that right. In committee, we tabled an amendment on the basis of our legislative proposal, which was intended to always oblige posting. You replied that this was too far, for example when it came to voyeurism or such facts. In your opinion, our proposal will no longer be proportionately punished. Now I am not a difficult person, and after a lot of looking and weighing, we have rewritten our amendment so that the lifelong posting of all sexual offences remains at least optional. We are removing the fifteen-year threshold, following what you have stated in the Chamber, because if it is necessary, it must be possible, you said, and we are making this a little difficult and comparable to the compromise in the majority; it is simply for the good of it that the posting is optional. If you are a man of your word, our amendment will be adopted shortly. I would be very pleased to hear that, because I think that gives a good signal to the terrain. I'm not just saying that. The problem is much wider than just what we saw in the case of kindergarten Dean. In the committee meeting we already referred to a newspaper article of that week about how a stepfather who was once convicted but was back home and was also allowed to stay near the stepchildren and their girlfriends, one night paid a visit to one of the staying girlfriends, so a case of recidivism. Mr Minister, with TBS, with follow-up, with control, such matters cannot happen anymore. I am convinced of that, because one of the conditions of TBS could no longer be dealing with minors. That could be perfect. Those people don't even have to stay in prison for me, but then they're gonna be escorted and they're gonna be subject to conditions, even after the end of the sentence. Then we should stop reading about it in the paper. Then we must stop expressing our indignation here. I also outlined this to my fellow Members at the time. They did not give home; it was the political choice. But at the time the proposed regulation was still mandatory, Minister, now I place the jurisdiction in the hands of the court of the bottom. The scheme is optional and may last longer than 15 years, so if necessary, for a very long time. That is in fact entirely in line with what you have come here to say. Dear colleagues, dear majority members, dear minister, it's up to you now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u5	Minister, should the Sexual Penal Code be reformed? We are convinced of that. In order to dispel any suspense on this subject, we will of course support this text. But the question is not just rhetoric. Last night, I was invited to a TV set to talk about it. In front of me, I had in video conference the representative of a feminist association and, in the studio, four men. One of them was a former judge who had had the opportunity to try moral cases and he did not waste any time sweeping the text as if it were useless; he claimed that this reform was not necessary, since the tools carefully developed by the legislator of 1867 (155 years ago) were quite suitable, already allowing the judge to take into account everything that needed to be done in order to provide an adequate response. Mrs De Wit has just pointed out the limits of this argument from a technological point of view. However, what this former judge forgot to recall was that the legislator of 1867 was men, men elected by men, who wrote laws by and for men. Nor did he say that the Penal Code of 1867 considered and still considered sexual violence not as crimes and offences against persons and especially against women, but as crimes and offences against family order and public morality. Nor did he say that marital rape had been condemned by Belgian law only since 1989, more than 120 years after the Criminal Code, and that, even today, there was a whole series of people who considered that marital duty was a completely defensible concept. What he didn't say was that today too many victims are still being asked what they were wearing, why they didn't resist and what they were doing alone on the street at that time. What he did not yet say was that powerful movements to free women's speech, to share victims' testimonies had gone through it, that attitudes had changed, that the Istanbul Convention had been drafted and ratified by many countries, including Belgium. And it is in all this reality that this text forms part of. Don't dislike him, it's obvious to the Ecolo group and myself. The Penal Code needed to be reformed in that regard. The criminal law had to reflect the evolution of society, the commitments of Belgium, particularly with regard to women's rights. I think what he wanted to say is that a judge today can already check whether there has been consent and that it is already practice in some courts. I can of course hear it, but should we simply allow the right to evolve in the courtrooms in the hands of specialists or certain specialists in any case, without the evolution going its way to the text itself? This does not seem desirable to me for a number of reasons. First, because this type of reasoning, which requires knowledge and understanding of the law, also knowledge of case law, doctrine and practice, makes it possible for experts to understand the law properly. On the contrary, I believe that the law, especially the criminal law, should not belong solely to experts and specialists. It must be sufficiently clear, legible and accessible to the general public. It is important that anyone opening the Penal Code tomorrow should read, black and white, that the absence of resistance does not mean consent. This person must be able to understand that consent can be withdrawn at any time and that it can be read, in as many words, that a sleeping victim would not have been able to consent under any circumstances. Another reason why it was important that the text under consideration reflected what was probably already in part practice was simply because, in the absence of an explicit and well-understood law, a large number of cases under criminal law would never be brought before the court because the victims were ashamed, felt guilty, doubted for themselves, did not know whether they should have reacted otherwise or did not want to have resisted more. There are already a lot of obstacles and difficulties for victims who choose the criminal route because the reception by the police is still too often inadequate and inadequate, as was pointed out in a recent report by Committee P, and because the burden of proof on sexual offences is very difficult and leads to too many rankings without follow-up. If one adds to these successive filters that one does not feel legitimately entitled to mobilize criminal law, and thus the filter of self-censorship, one comes to the present situation where the vast majority of these facts are not reported, are never recorded and the perpetrators are not prosecuted. As I have already mentioned, we cannot claim to take care of sexual offences, without taking into account their eminently generous dimension. These are offences that overwhelmingly affect women with perpetrators who are predominantly men. They are therefore offences that are part of a society that is still too patriarchal. It's a fact that it's important to have in mind when dealing with this type of offence. In this respect, although the text is not perfect, it is nevertheless a real step forward. I would like to point out here an element that may be significant because we are moving towards a better understanding of things. I am referring to the definition of partner in intra-family sexual acts. I refer to clause 21 of the bill. Persons who are likely to be prosecuted and convicted for intra-family sexual offences are not only parents or allies, but also partners. The bill explicitly states that the concept of partner includes ex-partners. It is known that violence against women does not stop at the time of separation and that those who were victims of violence within the couple are still likely to be subjected to violence inflicted by their ex-partner. It was therefore important that this element be taken into account in the bill. However, the Criminal Code should not be assigned a role that is not its own. It is important for environmentalists to recall from the outset that if we talk about the Penal Code, it is absolutely clear to us that the criminal response is only a response to violence in general and sexual violence against women in particular. Nor is the Criminal Code a manual for deconstruction of male domination or a manual for use on consent or equality. It is not by opening the Penal Code that young people will be taught how to ensure that the sexual act is well desired by their partner. The Criminal Code is not intended to interfere with what is going well. It serves only to be mobilised when a limit has been breached, which also means that the criminal response is in some way, for a society, always a failure since it means that we have failed to prevent the facts. After this general comment, I come to the project itself. Without commenting exhaustively on the scope of the text, I will simply point out a few lines of strength that are particularly important to environmentalists. The reform establishes the concept of consent as a cornerstone. The current law only provides in article 375, which deals with rape, that there is no consent if the act has been "imposed by violence, coercion, threat, surprise or deception or if it has been made possible by reason of an infirmity or physical and mental disability of the victim". Section 5 of the new bill includes a much broader concept of consent. Such consent must be given freely. It is revocable at any time and it is a very broad prerequisite that applies not only to penetration but also to any act of a sexual nature. This provision also specifies the circumstances under which consent may or may not have been given freely. This is a clarification that we felt was particularly useful and necessary when we know that many people, including young people, still feel that it is normal to insist on having sex or that the way the victim was dressed may have played a role in her assault or that she only had to drink if she did not want to take any risk. It was important for us that victims should be able to read directly in the law that what happened to them is indeed prohibited and that they are therefore entitled to file a complaint and to request an investigation into the facts that they have suffered. Certain circumstances constitute presumptions of non-consent. Along with the violence and coercion already contained in the text, being asleep or unconscious will in all cases constitute a lack of consent. The text also provides an illustrative list of circumstances in which the victim is in a situation of vulnerability and which provide all the necessary evidence to verify the victim's consent and ability to express it freely. These include the ingestion of alcohol or narcotics or mental disability. Note that we adapted the terminology that was very "validist" – which is still too often the case in law. In view of the fact that this provision on the influence of vulnerability on the ability to consent has had a great deal of ink and reaction, it is not pointless to say again – as the explanatory memorandum does – that there is obviously no question of drawing an automatic conclusion of non-consent from the first drop of alcohol and that it is also not necessary to deny persons with disabilities the possibility of engaging in consensual sexual relations. Simply, situations that are likely to place the partner in a more vulnerable position must provide as many clues as possible to verify carefully the presence of consent. Some actors may have been concerned that we were going too far, putting too much burden of proof on the authors. There was some assurance in that regard, but the opposite message could also be conveyed, namely that we are actually increasing the burden of proof on the side of the victims. I would very much like to object to that interpretation. It is obvious that this would run counter to the very purpose of the text. We have, of course, ensured that all assurances are provided in this regard. Moreover, the question of the burden of proof will arise more widely in the work on the reform of the rest of the Criminal Code, more specifically in the general principles of Book I. We will therefore have an opportunity to come back to this when this issue is discussed. Another development concerns the age of what is called "sexual majority", which can probably more accurately be described as the age at which the young person is considered to be able to freely express his or her consent. The current system is rather complicated and has some clarification here. The age of sexual majority, i.e. the age at which one is able to consent, remains at sixteen years, with some exceptions. It will therefore be possible to consent to acts of a sexual nature from the age of fourteen if the partner has a maximum of three more years, in order to ensure a development, a relatively comparable maturity. On the other hand, the agreed relations between minors, even if the difference is more than three years, will not be qualified as offences. Again, I think it is important to remember the role of the Penal Code. It is not a question of saying that one is for or against sexual intercourse at some age, it is not a value judgment. We're not going to say that before this age, it would be bad or abnormal, and then it's normal, advised or approved, that's not what this is about. These are devices that must be activated to protect potential victims. It is also a question of ensuring that the adolescents who are being protected here can link the provisions of the Penal Code to their own reality. In our view, the sexuality of young people should not be approached by punitive or negative means, as if the discoveries in this regard were necessarily dangerous. It is also known that at the age of 15, about 25 per cent of minors have already had sex. This is why ecologists would have been even in favour of a reversal of logic and to say "sexual majority from fourteen years old, but with markers of age differences between fourteen and sixteen years old". In fact, this has not been done, but if logic is not reversed, in fact the result is the same and, in any case, clarification is welcome here. In the other sense, however, it is not possible for a minor, even if he is sixteen or seventeen years old, to consent to acts of a sexual nature with persons of his family or persons who have authority over him, once again in order to avoid acts whose partners are not in an egalitarian relationship, where there are risks of influence or pressure. In connection with this, I come to clause 20 of the bill, which criminalizes incest. The inclusion of the word, the naming of this crime as such in the Belgian Penal Code, is the realization of more than fifteen years of work by the specialized associations. I am thinking in particular of SOS Inceste, but also of Women of Law, and some will say – and they will be right – that these facts could already be prosecuted perfectly thanks to the provisions currently in force. That's right. But my conviction is that the law must be clear, reflect today's concerns and name things for what they are. Incest is still a highly taboo phenomenon, poorly known, where very specific control mechanisms are involved. Victims find themselves in trouble with landmarks, with many doubts and confusion because of the authors' role in the family or in their surroundings. If it's taboo, it's extremely widespread. Evaluations refer to one in ten or two children per class who are reported to be victims. It's scary. We are not always collectively aware of the magnitude of the phenomenon. Using the term incest to specifically incriminate these acts which are still too often quiet and hidden within families makes it possible to clearly set the framework and prohibit it and must participate in an evolution in the collective awareness in this respect. I will focus on the issue of sentencing. Setting sentencing rates has not been easy – Mrs De Wit has mentioned it – being stuck between the current system (with the correction of many crimes) and the system of the future Penal Code that is not yet set, but that will thoroughly overhaul the system. We have tried to reduce the consistency in sentencing rates while knowing that the system will soon be reviewed. It is for this reason that the penalties for rape crimes have been increased because the current sentence seemed to be really low in terms of the seriousness of the crime. It was also for this reason of consistency that we reduced the sentences for voyeurism that appeared to be comparatively too high. On this issue, I stress that environmentalists strongly support the new possibility for judges to impose alternative sentences to the prison sentence for perpetrators of sexual offences. It may be counter-intuitive because the prison has such hegemony in our minds that any punishment that is not of the prison seems to be a penalty to the discount, a penalty of lesser importance, complacency or even an absence of punishment. It is, of course, much more popular to announce increases in prison sentences than alternative sentences. I will insist, however, that prison is not always in the long run the most protective choice for society because prisons are probably one of the places where toxic masculinity prevails. It is suspected that this environment is not at all conducive to developing respect for women and their rights, especially in the current conditions of detention. When one knows the rather catastrophic record, in terms of recidivism, it was really fundamental for us to add to the range of penalties answers which in some cases will be better able to deal with the perpetrators, to avoid recidivism and to better protect society. I turn now to the other part of the bill, the chapter that deals with prostitution-related offences. I think it's worth a little time. It is probably here that parliamentary work has been the most active on this issue. It is probably here that the hearings will have the most impact, will have given rise to more reflection and also to changes between the text originally tabled and the text we are going to vote on this evening. I think, of course, of course, of the offence of procuring, for which the provision put to the vote tonight has little more to do with what happened on our table six months ago. And I would really like to thank all the actors that we have heard and that have fed our thoughts on this subject in a very rich way. It was necessary, it was essential that a public debate be held on the issue. To set the framework, I want to explain how we worked in this area. First of all, it is a prerequisite which seems to me fundamental: just as we cannot pretend to tackle sexual violence without taking into account their gender-specific dimension, it would not be credible to speak of prostitution without first recalling how prostitution is a manifestation of male domination and, in particular, of men's domination over women's bodies. The issue of prostitution cannot be deduced from this issue, since almost 100 per cent of clients are men and the vast majority of providers are women and women in situations of high vulnerability. I really want to say it unambiguously: it is in no way a question for environmentalists to trivialize this or to minimize the realities that are often very violent, which are the daily lives of many prostitutes. On this sensitive issue, which divides heavily in all quarters, our responsibility as a political representative was to give way to a wide-ranging debate that allowed the various opinions that live in society to express themselves, that is, both the supporters of a easing of pimping and the voices that strongly disagreed with what was proposed. We have done so and we have been served, because the opinions have indeed been very contrasted. We, the environmentalists, took as a compass, we put at the center of the reflection the improvement of rights and protection for all and for all. We note that the current situation is partly hypocritical, because it does not protect or ill protect the persons concerned. The crisis of the covid has revealed how much of the prostitutes have become self-delivered, without social protection, without rights. I am also convinced that there is no better protection for people who are precarised by making them even more clandestine and by preventing them from establishing forms of solidarity among themselves. You will not hear from us that prostitution is a trade like another or an economic sector to be liberalized. You will not hear from us support the enrichment of pimps, bosses or shareholders on the backs of prostituted women. And it is fundamental for us to maintain and step up the fight against trafficking in human beings, which the government is doing, and it is very important to remember that too. However, there was no question for us of abandoning to their fate those people who are currently poorly protected, by misleading employment contracts, who are not entitled to any protection and who are being conned by their pimps without the possibility of defending their rights. We want to give more rights and protection to those in need, and to allow those who wish to do so, even if they are a minority, to organize among themselves, without putting others in a more precarious situation. We also want to stop the widespread stigmatization of prostitutes, which sometimes prevents them from accessing basic services, such as the opening of a bank account. Yes, of course, we must support, by all means possible, those who must and want to leave prostitution; and initiatives must be put in place and supported at this level. But this does not prevent us from also working to improve the living and working conditions of those who, for the time being, are prostitutes. How did we proceed? What we wanted to avoid was the opening of a provision of the Penal Code without social guarantees. We have therefore amended the text proposed to us, in a sense in which the organization of the prostitution of others in order to benefit from it will continue to be regarded as pimping. That is, it has been strengthened in relation to what was proposed by the Minister. In fact, the Penal Code alone will not change the current situation with regard to procuring. What is happening is that we have included in this definition the possibility of a future legal exception, which could actually make legal the organization of the prostitution of another person, under certain conditions. Clearly, for the time being, things are not changing. But if the government, after a reflection it has to carry out, is able to propose improvements to labour law, social security law, changes that create more social rights for prostitutes while respecting the very specific nature of this activity, then it might be possible to activate this legal exception in a framed way. What social developments are covered here? What is very important for us again is that prostitution cannot be regarded as one profession as another, that is, that there can of course be no question of inciting vocations. There is also no question that a job in prostitution can be offered to an unemployed worker. The question of the relationship of subordination that characterizes the contract of employment should also be arranged to ensure the control of these persons over their bodies at any time and their ability to consent or not to each act. Nor could there be any question of requiring the provision of notice because preventing, delaying or putting obstacles to the abandonment of prostitution are and must remain prohibited. I should also like to add that if we want to ensure - which is obviously our case - that people who are prostitutes are actually prostitutes on a voluntary basis, it is not through the Penal Code that we will do so as a matter of priority but by acting on other determinants, whether it is the protection of undocumented persons, the fight against social inequalities or, more generally, the struggle towards a major cultural change in terms of sexual and gender violence. The last thing about prostitution that I do not think is that after all these discussions, I think we cannot deny that we are not in a position today to predict with certainty all the consequences of the changes that we are introducing. Mrs Dewit is not wrong to point that out. It was therefore absolutely crucial for us to introduce into the text the principle of periodic evaluation of these legislative changes. This was done through an amendment that we made. The evaluation will be entrusted to the House. It will have to be independent and multidisciplinary. It will have to look at various criteria: on the one hand, the progress expected in terms of social rights and, on the other, the realization of certain risks, the impact of these developments on trafficking in human beings, on equality between men and women, on certain more vulnerable groups, such as young people or migrants. To assess the consequences of our political decisions is simply to be responsible for the choices we make and to be able, if necessary, in the light of these assessments, to change what needs to be done to correct the shot. Ecolo-Groen will pay the greatest attention. I'm going to slowly come to the end of my speech. I've just talked long enough about criminal law when I don't like it. It's a right that's violent. It is a right whose application makes it possible to reproduce, by amplifying them, social inequalities. It is a right that focuses and focuses on people who are marginalized in one capacity or another. It is for this reason that I pay particular attention to areas such as restorative justice. However, it must be agreed that the criminal response remains the main answer and that a change in this level is probably not for tomorrow. It must also be agreed that if criminal law addresses all sexual abusers, including the most privileged, it will not target marginalized persons, but a dominant group. If we make the choice of criminal law here to respond to sexual offences, let's play the game fully. We must ensure that the victims are properly cared for. We must facilitate the collection of evidence and the filing of complaints. This is being done in particular through the deployment of the network of centres for the care of victims of sexual violence (CPVS) which is in full development. Secretary of State Sarah Schlitz is working on it. We need to ensure that people on the front line, that police officers are properly trained to understand the dynamics of this type of violence. It's in progress, but there's still a lot of work going on at this level. Judges must also continue to train more closely on these issues. In order to be consistent, it seems to me that the action of criminal law should also be extended with civil consequences. I am thinking, for example, of the deprivation of parental authority for parents who have committed sexual offences against their children. It could be systematically requested by the Public Prosecutor's Office, which is not the case today. I am also thinking of the necessary abandonment of the discredited theory of parental alienation, which, unfortunately, still has too much right in our home, and which has disastrous consequences for some families, especially for mothers who try to protect their children, especially from incest. Indeed, this theory sometimes leads to the removal of these mothers from custody of their children for the benefit of the fathers accused of these attacks. Among the other projects that will be able to attract our attention in the coming years, there is also the issue of gynaecological and obstetric violence. This is a reality whose magnitude is gradually being revealed. In fact, an information report is under way in the Senate. It is carried by three of my ecologist colleagues. The reason I am talking about this is because the explanatory statement of the reform of the Sexual Penal Code may have left a doubt because it seemed to exclude from the scope of sexual violence, medical acts. That would be a mistake, particularly in connection with this violence. We believe that it is good to remain very attentive to what will emerge from the work on gynaecological and obstetrical violence. Because the Penal Code must be able to incorporate developments, we may, in due course, have to make further changes to certain provisions in this area. I said it first, but I can repeat it by concluding, we should not make the mistake of considering that an amendment to the Penal Code will automatically and in itself bring great progress on the rights of victims. It is, of course, what will follow on the ground, the means deployed that will be proof of improvement. This is obviously part of a comprehensive strategy to combat gender violence. This is why initiatives such as the new National Action Plan to Combat Gender-Based Violence, which has been coordinated with associations and to which a large number of ministers have participated, involving different levels of power, are particularly important in terms of prevention. The Criminal Code was essential to respond to violence, but it was necessary to succeed gradually in preventing its occurrence. In conclusion, I could sum up my remarks as follows. Ecologists do not want a world where prisons are filled with sexual abusers; on the contrary, we want a major cultural change to finally reverse and eliminate these sexual assaults. We will continue to work on it on a daily basis. In the meantime, Ecolo-Groen will, of course, support this text. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Hugon. I just want to send a little message. Our work has resumed for an hour. Two speakers took the floor. This text contains another ten. At this rate, we're here until 3:00. In addition, there are still other texts, and then nominative votes that I announce to you already numerous. In other words, could you consider the idea of synthesizing your expression?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u7	Madam President, I will try to be brief...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u8	Madam President, I fully understand your call to order, or rather your invitation, but we have just spent three hours on a resolution. Colleagues have worked for at least one year on the reform of the Criminal Code extremely intensively. This debate is deserved! That was a few words of support for Ms. Zanchetta for the rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u9	I agree in principle with what has just been said. This is an important piece of work which deserves serious treatment. Moreover, the agreements on time limits have just been followed up, and I am quite calmly expressing myself when discussing the motion for a resolution. However, these agreements allowed for a serious debate within a limited period of time and also created a little more room to discuss this draft law. Of course, it is up to each of us to make the difference between the work in a committee, which is very detailed, and the work in plenary. Normally speaking longer in a committee than in the plenary. When it's the other way around, that's a weird thing. Having said that, I do think that a draft of this order deserves a very broad discussion. But, I repeat, the time limits have just been exceeded. We must agree at the Conference of Presidents that we must show the necessary discipline to respect the agreements made at the conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u10	Madam Chair, this bill is the culmination of a long legislative process. The hearings and the work in committee, in which my colleague Khalil Aouasti took an active part, have enabled us to improve the text considerably. Many amendments have been tabled in order to take into account the views of actors in the field, academics, experts, etc. The Sexual Penal Code is an important project for our society, in connection with some recent events, such as the numerous reports of sexual violence against women, especially in several bars and nightclubs in our capital. Attitudes must change and have a modern and appropriate legal arsenal will contribute to the evolution of the morals of our society. As such, as a first change, rape is no longer a crime against the order of families. This seems obvious, but it is now evacuated from this chapter. This is not a purely aesthetic modification, because the words used make sense. The meaning of the terms used was particularly important, but that was all the more the case with the Sexual Criminal Code, where victims had to be able to put words on what they had experienced. A more appropriate terminology is therefore also preferred. Thus, by way of example, "indecent assault" is definitively deleted and replaced by the notion of "rape" or "attack on sexual integrity", depending on the offence committed. The text is therefore clearer in many respects, thus enhancing the protection and recognition of victims' experiences. Another major change that should also address a number of legitimate concerns and requests from, inter alia, victim associations: the concept of consent. In that regard, several amendments had been made to that concept, since a number of factors had to be taken into account, which annihilated or altered consent, such as sleeping or drinking alcohol, since it was also necessary to be careful not to create a presumption of non-consent, as soon as a person was under the influence of alcohol, which would de facto place the burden of proof of innocence on the suspect. Defining such a concept is certainly not an easy exercise. It is a matter here of clearly and clearly translating what our society cannot accept. Thus, reference is made to certain behaviours that are not accepted and that respond to a need to write black on white: "No, a woman who sleeps cannot consent to a sexual act. Yes, consent may be withdrawn at any time." In addition, it has been clarified and indicated in the provisions that this list of examples is not exhaustive. With respect to the sexual majority, another key point of the bill, it was necessary to determine where the cursor was placed, to determine precisely when a young person is capable of consenting or not consenting to sexual relations and with whom. Here too, improvements have been made through amendments. Thus, a minor between the ages of fourteen and sixteen may freely consent if the age difference with the other person is not more than three years. Finally, in order not to criminalize sexual relations between consenting young people, there are also no offences between fourteen-year-olds who act with mutual consent when the age difference is greater than three years. With regard to the issue of prostitution, sex workers and pimping, the bill discussed decriminalizes a number of behaviours in order to ensure the legal certainty of certain economic relations of sex workers. It should be recalled that the status of sex workers, in order for it to become a reality, must first involve an amendment to the Penal Code. It is therefore a necessary and important step that is being taken today. The criminal reform that is being discussed today does not meet a need that has been raised many times during the hearings, which is to improve access to the social rights of sex workers. And that is normal, it is not the subject of criminal law. But this is a necessity, and I will return to it. In the meantime, it should also be pointed out that, in terms of social law, Minister Dermagne has enshrined the principle of the ineligibility of nullity of the employment contract of persons who engage in prostitution. This is a draft that was voted on last month. Indeed, we know that the majority of sex workers have disguised employment contracts: they are waitresses, hostesses who, as you know, are not necessarily declared. The problem is that employers or social security institutions can rely on the nullity of the employment contract since its conclusion is in fact an infringement. Now, with this text, it will no longer be possible. And this is a considerable step forward for sex workers. With regard to the fight against trafficking in human beings and the offence of procuring, the draft Sexual Penal Code maintains the offence of procuring. He doesn't decriminalize it, let's be clear. Indeed, since in the state of social law there are few solutions for sex workers, it would be unacceptable to promote pimping through the decriminalisation of employment contracts. The issue of the difference between victims of abuse of prostitution and victims of trafficking in human beings has been resolved. There is no justification for trafficking in human beings. Preference must always be given to prosecution for the offence of trafficking in human beings. This is in the interest of the victim and his or her right to the special protection procedure. The amendments are also in line with this. In addition, amendments have been tabled to clarify the scope of the offence in relation to trafficking in human beings. As far as penalties are concerned, my group believes that it is not only the repressive logic that will prevent the problems of violence. While some sentences have been increased, an effort has been made to ensure consistency of sentencing scales by amendment. For our group, it was important to maintain a consistent sentence for each offence. In conclusion, Minister, you will have the support of the PS group on this new sexual penal code, which is a step forward in protecting victims. It clarifies what is illegal and actually prosecuted, which will allow the authorities to focus on problematic cases. Finally, and this is not least, the text is in line with the full realization of the rights of sex workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u11	Mr Minister, today there is a very important draft law on the amendment of sexual criminal law. It has been a hard nut to crack, because both sexual adulthood, the definition of sexual assault of honor and rape, the definition of consent in sexual acts, sexual aggression at a distance, incest, voyeurism and prostitution are discussed. In the recent statistics, as Mrs De Wit has already mentioned, there are 100 sexual assaults and rapes a day. Of these, only 10 are indicated daily. Many victims also attempt suicide. There are no statistics on this. We should list those figures urgently. In 70 percent of the cases, the rapist is a known acquaintance of the victim. More than 70 percent of the unsubs are recidivists. The number of effective convictions is sadly low, as you yourself have said. Only 10% of the charges lead to a conviction. The reasons for this are complex legislation, complex burden of proof and inappropriate sanctions, as you have already mentioned. In practice, much more will be needed. Procedures drag on too long. The reporting and professional secrecy of aid workers should be reviewed and help lines should be available 24 hours a day. Those are just a few examples of pain points. Before the substantive discussion, we would like to outline the tone that many of the guests had during the hearing. They were not sufficiently involved in the drafting of the draft law. There have been 9 hearings and all interested parties have only been given 20 minutes' speaking time. There was therefore a very short period of time in which what was said had to be saddened. It was desirable to give these people more time. This is a missed opportunity to come to a full-fledged and full-fledged law. Our group is very pleased with a number of clarifications. Let's get that straight. We are satisfied with a number of things that were necessary, clarifications, additions, modernisations included in the draft law. Certainly an important positive signal is to increase the penalty rate for a number of crimes. However, there are also several changes which are very ill-thought-out and very brief. I've listed them in eleven short points. First of all, it is not a question of global reform, as my colleague said, of the whole Criminal Code. That is not a good thing for coherence. Our group fears a great deal of duplication when the Committee on Justice will examine the reform of the Criminal Code. Also important issues, such as posting, are not dealt with. The draft law is also being abused to make provisions applicable to full criminal law, which was and may not have been intended. We are only thinking of the passage according to which the judicial backgrounds will no longer determine whether there is a possibility of delaying the trial. I give a second point of criticism. We see a substantial increase in the penalty rate for rape from 10 to 15 years. After correction, we are talking about a minimum of six months to a maximum of ten years. That is a very good thing, but we know very well that almost no sentence is served in Belgium in full. Many of the perpetrators are already at large after a third of their sentence. In this respect, I am, of course, looking forward to June. You have promised a repeatedly deferred promise, by the way, that from then on all penalties will be carried out effectively. We hope that you will certainly realise that. Finally, there is the problem of correction, where the court can pronounce penalties significantly lower than those laid down in the minimum penalties. This should also be reviewed in the reform of the entire Criminal Code. A third point, which is very important, concerns the provision of services. In the most recently edited draft of the Criminal Code, as formulated by former Minister Geens some time ago, there was no longer even any mention of posting. It wasn't even recorded. In the meantime, a number of atrocious crimes have shown that society must be able to be permanently protected against sexual predators at all times and where necessary. You yourself, Minister, have stated in the Chamber that a lifelong posting can be introduced in this way. That was a bill of ours, by the way. Mrs De Wit wanted to bring the deadline of 15 to 30 years, if I am not mistaken. We were talking about life. We therefore deeply regret that the announcements you made a few months ago concerning the lifelong posting have not been made, but above all that the unique opportunity that exists today is simply not being used by both hands to introduce the lifelong posting. A fourth point. It is incomprehensible and unacceptable to Flemish interest that alternative penalties in the form of electronic supervision, community service, or autonomous prosecution should no longer be excluded as criminal sanctions for certain sexual offences. A community service for a rape? An anklet for a rape maybe? It will soon be possible. Is that what the minister means by "making justice criminal"? The victims are gonna love to hear about it. Faith in justice, trust in justice, has been very low for years. I'm sure it won't increase as a result. A fifth point, on the amendment to Article 8 of the Probation Act. I was just talking about that. The judicial backgrounds will no longer determine whether probation delay is possible. In other words, probation delay will also be possible if the sentenced person has already been sentenced to a main prison sentence of more than 3 years. You have explained the ratio legis, which would lie in optimising the possibility of opening alternative sanctions to perpetrators of sexual crimes. The Order of the Flemish Balies also considers the complete abolition of the judicial records to be too short, for two reasons. Firstly, the adaptation has a significant impact not only on sexual crimes, but on all crimes. The draft law thus goes well beyond the limits of its own objectives and does not indicate that, for example, the ratio legis of the amendment is also useful for other crimes. Secondly, the reasoning here is only plausible in a past conviction for a completely different type of crime. The option of a probationary delay if the perpetrator is sentenced to five years in prison and has already been sentenced to three years for the same facts is totally unacceptable to our group. We absolutely cannot follow that. Sixth, we need some kind of perpetrator profiling. Once a perpetrator of a sexual crime is known, he should be fully investigated and checked whether he has been involved in previous sexual offences. Of course there is a huge price tag attached to this. Police forces need to be trained to do this. A complete database should be developed so that perpetrators can be linked more quickly to other criminal offences. Our group believes that investing in perpetrator profiling, as is already happening extensively in America, can lead to particularly beneficial results, including in resolving certain criminal offences. Next point of criticism. In your design, the judge only has an optional opportunity to seek advice from a service specialising in the treatment of sexual offenders in the treatment of a sexual offence. This has already been discussed in detail. Not only the Flemish Interest or other political groups, but also the Supreme Court for Justice and some members of the majority argue for mandatory advice. Sex cases have a special character. It is therefore appropriate that the judge should have such advice from the beginning of the proceedings, inter alia, in order to adequately determine the extent and follow-up of the offender. Only in this way will the judge get a clear picture of the perpetrator and whether he is a danger to society. Point 8. The draft law does not mention forced treatment. That too is a missed opportunity. The submission of certain convicts, subject to their consent, to certain therapies could be part of the solution. This is important because the government has the task of guaranteeing the safety of its citizens. The introduction of forced treatment could at least have been examined and evaluated in this context. It is regrettable that this has not happened, all the more so because a compulsory lifelong posting cannot be used today either. How are you going to keep the sexual predators out of society? We are not getting an answer to that today. Ninth point, the entire chapter of prostitution. This has also been discussed in detail. The relationship of authority and personal advertising remains to be determined in a later legal framework. This leads to legal uncertainty. The announcement of a specific law in the future, which should define exceptions, is not good legislation. It is not enough simply to amend the penal code, as I have already heard here. The status of the sex worker should be considered in globo. Nor is the College of Attorneys-General in favour of introducing this legislation. In their view, crimes such as prostitution and trafficking in human beings should be tackled together. This aspect would also be better dealt with in the global discussion of criminal law and should not be included in sexual criminal law. The penultimate point that we would prefer not to see approved is the possibility for the judge to proceed with the confiscation of the property, even if it is not the property of the convicted person. Why should the house where the tenant shows a child porn be forfeited if the owner is not even aware of this practice and has nothing to do with it? That is incomprehensible and disproportionate for our group and was cited again today, by the way, you are shuffling no through the OVB. Finally, with our eleventh point, I would like to draw particular attention to the victims of sexual crimes. They absolutely deserve better support. Is this government willing to think about better support for the victim? This can be done, for example, by introducing a compulsory family policy with comprehensive legal aid so that victims of a sexual crime can be assisted in the lodging of a complaint by a lawyer. The cost for a family is minimal here and does not outweigh the benefits. You should know that not everyone is a well-known Fleming who can count on the free assistance of a lawyer from the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men who is paid by the tax payer. Our decision, Minister. It cannot be denied that something had to happen and that something happened. Your design certainly contains a number of good things. We do not deny that, but I have just raised many important issues with which the Flemish interest cannot agree. We therefore call for a separate vote on Rules 48, 74, 84, 86, 87, 88 and 114. For all these reasons, the Flemish Interest will not vote against it in its entirety, although I have listed enough things to justify our vote against it. We will abstain as the reform of the entire criminal justice system is still on the table and we want to give you another chance. We therefore hope that you will make good use of your second seat.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u12	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, reforming our Penal Code is a major task. Since 2015, the Committee on the Reform of Criminal Law and Criminal Procedure has embarked on this task, which, I believe, will come to fruition under this legislature. Pending the comprehensive reform, the MR has been quite with you, with your initiative to move forward without delay in the rewriting of the part of the Criminal Code concerning sexual offences. We support your commitment to making the fight against sexual crimes a top priority for this government and believe that this part of the Penal Code that we are debating today is a necessary foundation for this building. Indeed, sexual offences are now even more than ever understood as unacceptable attacks on physical and mental integrity and are extremely traumatic. The project we are voting today has the ambition to update our Penal Code and adapt it to the sociological changes that have taken place since 1867. The rate of punishment is increased for a large part of the offences, which is very significant in the changing mentality. However, we all know that criminalizing behaviour is the signal of what is or is not acceptable in our society. But in order to move towards a society that is respectful of each other, in addition to these criminalizations, it is of course necessary to ensure a policy of prevention, to ensure that all members of our society integrate respect for each other, and for women in particular, into their behaviour. We need to change our mindsets. The sanctions imposed must be effective. We need support from the victims. I begin with the chapter on pimping. The new Sexual Penal Code will always criminalize procuring, but leaves an opportunity for legislators to determine cases in which a person can organize the prostitution of others. In the long term, therefore, it will be necessary in Belgium to legalise only a certain form of procuring. In other words, from the moment the benefit derived from the prostitution of others is not abnormal, the pimp may be an employer, in the case of a contract of employment, or a lessor, in the case of renting a place for prostitution. I, together with my group, remain sceptical about the ethical merits of choosing to decriminalize the matter by the possibility of concluding a contract of employment between a prostitute and a pimp. So a subordination bond is valid in a trade where the service - I refuse to speak of good or merchandise - passes through the body of a woman. I say "woman" because the vast majority of prostitutes are women. I still wonder whether easier access to self-employed status would not have been more appropriate to respond to the difficulties relayed by the ASBL Utsopi, representing prostitutes, during the hearings. Social protection is also possible through self-employed status. It will also remain so. In addition to my questions about the ethical merits of this approach that we may be taking, I still have in mind the hearing of certain actors on the ground, including the judiciary, who warned us about the negative consequences that this legalization of some form of non-abuse of procurement could have in their work to combat trafficking in human beings. We, the Liberals, will remain very attentive and vigilant on this aspect, particularly in the framework of the Special Commission on Trafficking in Human Beings which has just been established. I also have in mind the difficulty for the prosecutor's office that the reference to an abnormal advantage involves in sanctioning pimping.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u13	Mrs Gilson, I should like to interrupt because Mrs Matz wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u14	I expected it!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u15	Mrs Gilson, all the arguments you have just mentioned are exactly those for which this legislation on prostitution is bad legislation. As you pointed out, the Prosecutor's Office, the College of Attorneys General, most of the associations told us that they could not prosecute. We know it's already very complicated for now with all the tricks and tricks that operators use. To the limit, you would have taken my text on prostitution... you're saying exactly the same thing, otherwise, I'm concluding that it's not good legislation. I would have been careful, but it wouldn't change anything if I were careful. What is needed is to have the strongest means of protection possible. I fully understand your reasoning but I do not understand the fall because I suppose the fall will be: "We will vote in favour of this project." The second point you have mentioned is that the status of self-employed must be strengthened. I have had the opportunity to table in the Committee on Social Affairs an amendment on the status of self-employed persons, to combat false self-employed persons and to guarantee more protection. The majority swept it away with a back of their hands. I therefore confess that I do not understand again why you are also criticising the penal tool that it is not necessary to modify to obtain a status for sex workers, which is a legitimate demand. I don't understand the reasoning. I have heard, apart from questions of principle... But, frankly, if we ask questions of principle on such serious matters, it is really very damaging.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u16	As I said, for the Liberals, making his body available in a contract in which a price is fixed must ideally be done under a service contract under independent status. However, we wanted to listen to the people in the sector, such as the ASBL UTSOPI and the Federation of Social Services, who conducted various studies and surveys which showed that, under a contract of employment, there would be more opportunities to get out of prostitution and to be accompanied. In the continuation of my presentation, I will return to the framework of this employment contract for which we will be willing to accept this measure of employment contract in addition to that of self-employed who must always remain available. Having said that, we are not in favour of specific categories of self-employed persons or of creating a specific independent status, as you may have proposed in the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u17	I have not proposed a specific statute, but the extension of measures that already exist in a social security system. I have proposed extending these protective measures to sex workers. I didn't create a particular category. I understand your answer to the employment contract. We have no opinion on whether an independent status is required or whether an employment contract would be preferable. Everyone must be free to choose the status that best suits him. I have no answer to the strong inquiry of the College of Attorneys General and other associations. You mentioned one that was particularly effective in convincing a number of political leaders. I did not hear you answer the question of how we will do tomorrow with the very strong inquiry of the College of Attorneys General and also other associations such as the Samilia Foundation. I know that you have had special contacts with representatives of an association who have come to committee. How do we respond with this legislation to the protection of victims and which attracts our attention by saying "we will no longer know how to prosecute"?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u18	As I said, the difficulty will be, on the one hand, to determine in practice what an abnormal advantage is and, on the other hand, to identify where an abnormal advantage would be hidden under appearances of normality or legality. During the hearings, various speakers explained to us that victims of trafficking are sometimes very loyal to their abusers, in particular for fear of reprisals against their person or their families who remain abroad, for fear that they will no longer be able to send money or because of a relationship at the beginning of love that has turned into a toxic relationship with emotional blackmail to engage in prostitution. It will therefore be necessary to regulate this system of all guarantees so that the decriminalization of non-abuse pimping in order to ensure a status for sex prostitutes and to give them the choice between the status of self-employed who, in our opinion, is the best, and the status of an employment contract, does not produce collateral damage which was mentioned at the hearings. Therefore, we will be paying attention to the bill that will be put on the table by Minister Dermagne, in consultation with the prostitute sector and, very importantly, in consultation with representatives of victims of trafficking or prostitution. This bill will determine the conditions that will be imposed on the person who will organize the prostitution of others as an employer. I remind you of the freedoms highlighted by the hearings. First, anyone can refuse another person as a sexual partner. Secondly, any person may refuse certain sexual acts. Third, any person may interrupt sexual contact at any time. Fourthly, any person can set conditions for his or her own sexuality, even without the framework of prostitution. We are of course in favour of respecting these four freedoms of prostitutes who will have to be included in the bill, which will include an exception to punishable pimping. These freedoms constitute a minimum non-negotiable minimorum for the Reform Movement, but care must be taken – by means of increased controls – to ensure that they do not remain beautiful facade principles that would not be respected in the walls and rooms of the places of passage. In this case, Minister, we expect you to deploy the human and material resources necessary for these controls. Moreover, we will study very carefully the evaluation of the Sexual Criminal Code Act, which is planned two years after its entry into force and which will, if necessary, make it possible to correct the shooting. It should be noted that many countries that have taken this path, with a view to providing social protection to the prostitute, are nevertheless considering the abolition of this possibility of an employment contract aimed at prostitution. I invite you all to watch the documentary El Proxeneta, based on Mabel Lozano's book-confession, which reveals the undersides that can sometimes be assumed by the pimp's activity and the influence it can exert on prostitutes. Minister, among the other points that the MR wishes to highlight, I will note that, in the Sexual Penal Code, great attention has been given to the issue of consent. This is now defined. It is clearly stated that it is "a prerequisite for any act of a sexual nature". For us, the Liberals, freedom of choice and respect for them are obviously essential. No, lack of resistance does not amount to consent. No, a young girl or a woman who sleeps or is unconscious is not consenting. Consent cannot be inferred from an absence of reaction. No, a girl or a woman does not consent to sexual intercourse when there is violence, coercion or deception. No, if a girl or a woman has her free will altered because she has been drinking, she has taken substances consentingly or without her knowledge, or if she is afraid and is in a state of sideration – as we have heard during the hearings, and this appears in the text – she does not consent. We will therefore be dealing with rape. What seemed self-evident to us is now clearly referred to, and we welcome it. With this clear definition of consent, we hope that unconsented relations will be more easily prosecuted, punished, but above all attract attention, change attitudes with a view to improving our society and relations between people. The purpose of this amendment to the Act is to encourage and support all victims of sexual assault so that they can file a complaint. I want to think in particular of the attacks that have taken place in recent months in the district of the cemetery of Ixelles, where I am elected, and which have shown a significant difference between the number and gravity of the testimonies published on the Internet and the actual figures of the police and the centres for dealing with sexual violence, which are far below the reality of the figures of the testimonies. Thirdly, the Liberals welcome the fact that incest is now criminalized as such in the Penal Code. We all had iced blood at the SOS Inceste hearing. The incest must now be appointed. He is the subject of an autonomous offence and no longer as before of an aggravating circumstance. This is essential to highlight the specific gravity of the sexual offence when perpetrated by the first people who are there to protect the child, its ascendants. As Lily Bruyère, coordinator of SOS Inceste Belgium, reminded us at her hearing: "Incest is a complex trauma. The psychological consequences of incest rape are not those of a single attack that manifests itself in post-traumatic stress disorder. Incestuous rape generally leads to psychological, physical, behavioural and complex disorders. These are traumas that form part of a right-of-way relationship, which persist, repeat themselves over time. The mental intrusions created by these rapes cause a state of ederation. The child is blocked in any mental representation. He is prevented from controlling his emotional responses. He is overwhelmed by an atmosphere and acts of which he does not understand the meaning. There is a break in both his psyche and his body. It's terrifying. He can't put words on what's happening to him. It is immersed in a state where it is simply reduced to meeting the adult's sexual desire. Spotlights and parental representations are collapsing and, in addition, when incest is revealed, the victim is often ostracized, excluded and loses his family." For all these reasons, the MR Group supports the fact that the Criminal Code here plays its role by explicitly stating that incest is prohibited and heavily punished. Fourth, and most recently, a word about the sexual majority. Thus, the sexual majority is maintained at sixteen years of age. For the MR, the message to young people and adults is that at the age of 16, one is able to freely consent to sex, and that must remain the rule: "from the age of sixteen." But this rule is supplemented by another rule which provides that, when the youngest partner is fourteen years old, he or she may have sex with another person, provided that the latter is not more than three years older than he or she. We wanted to take into account the fact that from the age of fourteen there can be a discovery of his sexuality, but that this discovery must be made in a context, with another partner who, too, is in this same state of mind of youth and discovery. So between fourteen and sixteen years of age, there may be acts with a person who is no more than three years older than you. Initially, the text provided for two years, but as a result of the hearings, the gap has increased to three years, and this seems to us to correspond to reality. We will, however, be attentive to the jurisprudence that will emerge from this provision. Minister, I will conclude by saying that this draft Criminal Code is a first step in this important reform, as I said in 2015. It seems to us appropriate that this first step should be taken, from today, with this first stone in this building, but this reform must continue and be rapidly incorporated into the more comprehensive reform of the Penal Code, some of which are absolutely linked to this project, such as the imposition of treatment on sex offenders. We will therefore remain attentive and work with you on all these matters that are of great interest to us. The MR will therefore vote in favour of this draft sexual penal code.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u19	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before looking at the Criminal Code as a whole, the government has chosen to take sexual criminal law in line with the declaration of government. The danger of this kind of exercise is always that, in the absence of sufficient hunger, the appetizer will remain. That's not usually the case with men like me, but with women I sometimes find that out. Minister, I assume you are a man like me, so you will not stick and move on from the appetizer. If not, the exercise is somewhat dangerous, in the sense that, although we all have to talk very repressively, it stands well today and it is already late - a law as it stands before, is only drinkable by the correctional. What strikes me so much is that penalists and specialists in criminal law are always talking about the infractions. They can talk about this in great detail. They think they're pleading for a judge. However, when it comes to the measures of punishment, it is precisely 'excuse me' colleagues, I was raised Catholicly as if people were talking about indulgences. We are talking about the penalty between 5 and 20 years or between 15 and 30 years and we will see what happens. The judge is sovereign. The judge determines the punishment and gets a margin for it, while the legislator forms the illusion that, by determining the criminality very precisely, in 86 details, the judge is pushed in a certain direction. The relationship between the legislature and the judiciary is the most special one in criminal law. I know only one article of law in which this relationship is even more peculiar, and that is Article 1382 of the BW Treaty. At least 20 million decisions have been made on this since 1804. That good father, who has now, of course, become a mother, who evolves as if it were nothing. We do not talk about this, because since 1838 there has been the correction, which saves us from all the ailments. Tomorrow we will tell outside that we have imposed great penalties, but the judge will then impose a sentence of six months or a year. You know that, ladies and gentlemen, either on the right or on the left, from the repressive side or the tolerant side. This is the truth: we make theater about punitive measures, without ever going into it. When one asks a criminologist or a penalist what he thinks of the measure, it usually stays silent. I dared to ask an expert. Then I was a little ignored and I didn't ask the question twice. At the time, as Minister, I had a whole table of penalties and penalties drawn up. The experts have served this purpose, but we all know - if we don't know it, it's time we knew it - that, apart from life imprisonment - at least if it's carried out - no sentence can be repeated. We all know, therefore, that what happens when the criminal court is executed and prosecuted is far more important than what happens when the criminal court is given the opportunity to determine whether or not it is a rape with an aggravating circumstance and to impose a penalty of around 35 years. It is therefore an incredibly important part of the legislation, because it continues on a draft prepared by the previous government, for which thanks to my successor, but above all because it shows that the real work has yet to be done. What's the problem, colleagues? The problem is not the penalty measure, although I would like to talk about it much more. There are some interesting measures, such as the restraining order. That arsenal will certainly be expanded in the future when we talk about the extension of sanctions, Minister. The difficulty lies in what happens at end of sentence. One does not know or hardly knows that anyone who does not request conditional release cannot be subject to conditions. Anyone who requests conditional release may be subject to conditions whose duration exceeds the term of sentence. Whoever's serving his sentence to the end, that doesn't apply, tant piss. That brings us to the question for Parliament. We're not really gonna lock up every sexual offender for life, are we? Even the most repressive on the right, while people are still being released with suspension, will find it somewhat exaggerated to leave every sexual offender in prison for life. One can be very repressive. In short, it's in his wake. That costs money, and we don't have any money. We have 32 billion for health. We have $2 billion for Justice. Justice is well-being, too. Justice is also health, namely the health of society, but we have no money for that. Deputy Prime Minister Van Quickenborne is allowed to build three internment institutions from the former and this government. People in Aalst are still looking for where they will put that internment institution. In Paifve, they already know. Secretary of State Michel has presented a construction plan. The direction of 600 men and barely 1 billion will try to build a few internment institutions and prisons by 2028 or 2029 or 2030. Even Mr Verherstraeten, who unfortunately is ill today, has not planned the prison of Haren, which has happened before him. Maybe that prison will be built this year or next year. That's the truth. And we're just talking about punitive measures. We don't have the goddamn money to give to the Justice Department and no administration that is sufficiently powerful and can ensure that prisons are built quickly. We are all talking about investment and we are submitting a recovery plan to Europe. That's wonderful. When will we make investments? I've visited all those 19th-century prisons repeatedly. Each party here should occasionally supply the Minister of Justice, including the Flemish Interest, also the PTB, just to see what the real situation is. If you sent children or sick people to a 19th-century godly house, everyone would call it a humanitarian disgrace. However, we do. So we are discussing a very interesting piece of legislation, but the last pages still need to be written. The youngest Members here should not be older than 30, otherwise they will never see the last pages. The reform of justice has been under way since the Gang of Nivelles. Before that we had been still for at least forty years, perhaps even seventy years. Madam President, I promised you to be brief, but there's still an audience in the gallery, so those people have earned something tonight. The bottom line is that we do not really care enough. We simply do not have the courage to put our money where our mouth and our heart are. Minister Van Quickenborne has received 250 or 500 million. With all due respect, a budget is always very easy. I've been pulling the last hairs out of my head to get a few more million from the Treasury Inspector. However, there is no problem in allocating money for health, in this respect it is easy to be Minister of Health. Public health has many difficult problems, but in financial terms it is the easiest for Health, a black box. I used to be Minister of Finance. Delicious! At the end of a whole budget discussion, the Health Minister came to me and asked me, "Is it okay if I do 250 million?" I asked where that came from. By the way, I wasn't Minister of Finance when my colleague De Block was in Health, so don't worry. The one who was then Minister of Health is no longer in Parliament, so she cannot even contradict me. "Is it okay if I do 250 million? Where did they come from? I will decide that with the mutualities, the doctors and the RIZIV and you will see what happens." Colleagues, 32 billion goes to health and 10 billion goes to disability, together 42 billion. Welfare in Flanders alone costs 13 billion. The total comes to 55 billion. Justice gets 2 billion. If we continue like this and interest rates rise, then the budget for justice will begin to fall in nominal terms. That is the sad fate of a Minister of Justice. Besides, if he wants to build a building, the Regie says she'll do her best. Hospitals are renewed every 30 years, but that doesn't apply to a prison or a courthouse. This afternoon I spoke...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u20	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u21	In Antwerp, they throw money.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u22	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u23	I know exactly what that cost you there, on the promenade.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u24	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u25	Admit there's disproportion. Minister, I have an important question about your Criminal Code. First of all, let's make it. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, think again about assists. I say this particularly for the left and for the French-speaking side. Think again about assists. Next year - at best this year, but for the Justice Department I am used to doing so for another year - we will have a process that will last nine months. I prepared a NATO building three years ago for that. Everyone said it was way too expensive and I shouldn't. Soon all the important processes will be conducted there, because the Justice Palace in Brussels is still on the premises. However, I have pushed heaven and earth to help it forward, but it has not succeeded. They're going to run that process for assists. I find that a challenge to say to you. I regularly watch the assist process in France. That is a little better arranged, because we are much more loyal to the Napoleonic period and the period immediately remained beyond the French. I don't know why, but I do. That's insane. The new Criminal Code that we are going to create is greatly hampered by the fact that we will no longer be correcting it, which is being abolished, but that there are still assists. The correct judges will therefore impose penalties of around 20 to 25 years, without the criminal chambers, which we have talked about for so long, eventually being there, because this government has decided in the form of government that the criminal proceedings will not be affected. So we're sticking to an old 19th-century system that's dated. I've agreed to that, but I'm praying to think again. After all, what will the judge have to do with the penalties in the future? He'll get eight categories of punishment. Only number eight will probably come for assists and with all others there are quite high penalty sizes. This will allow mitigating circumstances to continue, but the judges will become more stringent, because they will no longer have to impose these mitigating circumstances because of the correction. Mrs De Wit, you have just challenged the majority to talk, but you cannot say that I am not saying anything. You always said prisons should be built. We had a capacity of 10,500 places planned. However, we must see what we are doing, because prisoners cannot be put into emergency villages. We need to know what we're doing. We cannot handle 13,000 prisoners, not now, not next year, nor the year after that. Finally, I do not like to talk about issues that concern women, because that is dangerous as a man. We have colleagues in the party and in the group who are much better at this than I am and those of the right sex, not to mention Mr Van Hoof. I'm gonna say something under her control anyway. I specifically asked her to be there so I could say it right. I'm a little scared, but I'm gonna try anyway. It's about that contract of employment. The tolerance policy of prostitution now has its advantages. I'm not saying I'm in favour of it, but it has its advantages. First of all, prostitution is inevitable. We can't do that, it's inevitable. People are discussing what the oldest profession is and it is probably not far off. The tolerance policy has the great advantage of channeling everything. That's what people do today. In all major cities that is reasonably under control. I am very charmed, Minister, by the idea of what I call "excuse me," ladies, if I say something wrong, shoot me if I say the emancipatory nature of the decriminalisation and even the legalization of the prostitute. So I'm with you, just to be clear. However, we must see that it is as efficient as the policy of tolerance and that we do not lose control of it by decriminalising it. I've heard everyone here refer to the College of PGs. I won't do that. I'm still decorating. The bottom line is, of course, that decriminalisation is easy, but then what? There is a very big discussion among women or prostitution now as a self-employed person or as a wage earner or if both can be performed. I think, Minister, and I am now careful with what I have to say, because I am a little afraid that you and your colleagues Clarinval and Dermagne have a great job to do here. You must work together to ensure that prostitution can be exercised in the most legal way possible in the future, without encountering problems of trafficking in human beings. That's a challenge to flinch at, but if you back down, it won't go well. I have a feeling that you will not back down and I hope that you will also abide by what is in the law and ensure that the statutes promised will be put in place. If that is not the case, then I am prepared to see the result, but I will ask a good parliamentary question on occasion, as you are used to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen: "Victim, we believe you, aggressor, we see you!" This is one of the slogans I heard in the streets of Ixelles during the massive mobilization at the time of the new scandal of sexual assaults in bars. I also heard it on March 8, 2022. The MeToo, Balancetonporc movement has freed the word and revealed what is hidden under the submerged part of the iceberg: the enormity of the number of sexual assaults women suffer in our country every day. Today, women are mobilizing to say no, to say that it must stop. Four out of five women were victims of sexual violence and about one in six women were raped. For LGBTQI+ people or people with disabilities, these figures are even higher. For example, one in four LGBTQI+ people has been the victim of rape or attempted rape. These numbers are huge. On the other hand, there are also figures for a failing policy. The confidence of people or women in the legal system is so low that only one in twenty-five women file complaints. This is understandable because citizens face misunderstandings and laws that do not protect them. Half of the rape cases are closed. That's to say, there's work to do! In order to stop sexual violence, we must first understand it properly. We believe that the problem of sexual violence cannot be separated from the inequality that exists in our society between women and men. It must be seen in the wider context of structural violence against women. There is a much higher percentage of women who have ever experienced physical sexual violence than men. Of course, we must also look at male victims and the policy must also protect them, but we must not be blind to that reality. The problem can only be addressed if the policy is based on what we call a gender perspective. We have to note that this exercise of thought has not been done enough under this law. That is also what the speakers of Fem&L.A.W., le Conseil des Femmes Francophones de Belgique and the Women's Council made during the hearings. A so-called impact analysis was added to the preliminary draft. One of the questions asked was: identify any differences in the respective situation of women and men within the subject of regulation. In short, does regulation on this subject refer more or less to men or women? The answer given was that there is no difference, without any further explanation. That's not serious! Of course there is a difference. Belgium has ratified the Istanbul Convention. This recognises that there is an unequal balance of power between women and men and that it makes women more likely to be victims of violence, including sexual violence. Then how could you leave the idea that women and men would be in the same situation when it comes to sexual violence? This exercise might have come about if you had worked with civil society in a serious way from the very beginning. Vivaldi had only invited a limited selection of civil society for the interview. Based on that, you've gone to work. In the end, hearings were organised under pressure. During these hearings, the experts, civil society and others expressed many reservations and criticisms. You have therefore written 68 amendments to your own text. An important aspect of the law is consent. The PVDA-PTB welcomes the role that consent will play in the new criminal law. There has been a problem so far. If a person was victimized by sexual acts that he or she did not agree with and if it could not be demonstrated that violence or coercion was involved, there was no conviction. According to the law, there was sexual assault on the dignity only when coercion or violence was involved. This is now being corrected once and for all. Permission will be the starting point. Sexual acts without consent are now also treated by law as sexual violence. That's the only right way to understand sexual violence. In French they say: "Quand ce n'est pas oui, c'est nun!" Of course, we welcome the fact that consent will be at the heart of this process. This development does not, of course, come from the sky either. It is the result of the ongoing struggle that is being waged by the feminist movement here in Belgium. These are women who have the courage to question this society and fight for gender equality. They do that in difficult circumstances. In fact, women standing up for their rights are often the victims of intimidation and violence. We therefore want to show our respect for the courage and perseverance of the feminist movement. Last week we saw how these women managed to bring people to life all over the country on 8 March who want to fight for equality. I think that's what it takes today. Women must fight against a society that discriminates against them, suppresses them, exploits them and subject them to violence. This problem can only be addressed if women unite, defend their interests and fight together for another society. However, we do not think that the government has sufficiently listened to the demands of the women's movement. Permission becomes the cornerstone of sexual criminal law. Then, of course, the definition of it must be good. However, we believe that the definition now contained in the draft could be even better. We believe that the government could have taken an example of Spanish criminal law where, following a rape case in 2020, the "ley del solo sí es sí" or the only yes-is-yes law was passed. That law came under pressure from feminist civil society and has a nice definition of explicit consent. Today's draft states that consent presupposes that it has been given of its own free will. The Spanish text states that consent is only granted if it is expressed by free will by acts which clearly express the will of the person concerned. We therefore tabled an amendment to use this definition. Unfortunately, that was voted away by the majority. However, we believe that the more specific the definition of consent is, the better victims can be protected. We therefore retable that amendment today. However, we are satisfied that consent cannot be the result of coercion or psychic violence. We have argued for this on several occasions. We will keep coming back to it: the protection of victims must be the top priority. Unfortunately, we note that, even after this reform, victims will face a high burden of proof. For example, this draft law provides that a minor cannot consent if the perpetrator has exercised an authority position, but holding an authority position is not enough. The victim has to prove that the position of authority has been used, but how is it demonstrated? This is an example of the problem of the high burden of proof that is being dealt with everywhere in this sexual criminal law. Criminal law isn't on its own. The way in which the judicial investigation is conducted should also be used. We have also put forward a number of concrete proposals on this subject, but the government has not gone into this. At the hearings we were told by the Supreme Court of Justice about the difficulties suffered by victims in the judicial investigation. A lot of files get stuck because it ends with word against word. The unsub's defense sometimes takes everything out of the closet to discredit the victim's courageous statement. The Supreme Court of Justice explained how the victim first made a brief statement when making the file and only later an in-depth statement. Due to the time between the two statements, the statements are sometimes not quite the same. That's understandable, too. When one experiences a traumatic experience like rape or sexual assault, people cannot remember all the details. It's known. Therefore, there are sometimes inconsistencies between the two explanations. The painful thing is that this is being exploited by the unsub. This calls into question the victim's statement. In order to respond to this problem, we have tabled an amendment with a specific proposal. Today, suspects are entitled to legal assistance from the first interrogation. People who make a statement like victims don't have that right. We therefore proposed extending this right to everyone, so that everyone can see their rights properly defended. Especially for victims of sexual violence, this would mean a huge difference. Unfortunately, this amendment was also voted down. The investigation should focus on the perpetrator and remove pressure from the victim. Thus, in the sexual assault investigation, it should be more common for the defendant to be asked from which he distracted that consent. That, too, was proposed by the Supreme Court of Justice. The draft law also states that the judge may ask for an opinion from specialised services on the suspect's psychological profile with a statement of reasons. That profile is very important, because sexual violence often doesn't come out of nowhere. In addition, such advice also enables us to assess the risk of the person going to relapse or that he is a danger to society or not. That is an important element that the judge can consider. We therefore proposed that this opinion be made compulsory. The Institute for Equality between Women and Men also advocated this, but this proposal was also removed from the Committee. The reason given was that it would require too much resources and staff. Minister, in order to really stop violence, we need to release the necessary resources. The government also wants to raise the penalty for sexual violence. Above all, however, we also need to make useful use of the time that an offender is in prison. Will we finally make the necessary investments to provide psychological guidance, to invest in the treatment of offenders and to implement the detention plans? We can't just let an unsub rot in an overcrowded cell for years and then let him go back into society like a ticking time bomb. Little Dean's death has shown that prison sentences are not enough in themselves. We need to use the period of time an unsub is locked up in prison in a meaningful way to prevent him from falling back. For this, too, the government must have the courage to invest more in personnel. I would also like to mention that criminal law and judicial investigations are always late. If an investigation is started to convict an unsub, there's always a victim left behind. The victim will always have to carry the trauma and the pain with him. We cannot make peace with proper investigation and punishment alone. We must do everything we can to prevent sexual violence, and that concerns society as a whole. Sexual violence is part of our male-dominated society. In our society, sexual violence is still much too banalized, ridiculed and normalized. As an example, I mention the famous lecture by Jeff Hoeyberghs. In that, Jeff Hoeyberghs said, I quote: "Women want the privileges of male protection and money, but they don't want to open their legs anymore." Such statements maintain sexual violence. We can't tolerate that. More emphasis should be placed on prevention. We do this by focusing on sound relational and sexual education for children. We must teach our children from childhood about intimacy, respectful relationships and consent. We must teach them to set boundaries for themselves and to respect the borders of others. In addition, there is, of course, a need for broad awareness among the population as a whole. There is also sometimes talk of the grey zone. There was a lot of commotion recently about the series Two Summers. In that series a gang rape is depicted and according to some people it takes place in the grey zone. Wim Van de Voorde of Helpline 1712 stated quite clearly that it is not about a so-called grey zone, but about cock black sexual cross-border behavior that cannot be nuanced in any way. By forming people well about the importance of consent, light can shine on that grey zone and an incredible amount of suffering can be avoided. We also need zero tolerance for sexism in the media, in advertising and in public space. What we need is a real cultural change. That too will require money and investment. Finally, Mr.Minister, there is a problem that Mr. Geens has dealt with extensively, that of the lack of resources. Because that is what ultimately measures the effectiveness or otherwise of a policy. The Supreme Council of Justice said that if there were not enough investments in people and resources, this law would remain a mere symbol. Myria said that the implementation of this bill requires more resources on the ground, but what is happening there is the opposite. For example, they told us about the policy of combating trafficking in human beings. In Genk, for example, the anti-trafficking service was completely abolished due to capacity problems. Some persons are reference magistrates for ten types of crime at the same time. In Brussels, the experts were moved to the fight against terrorism. As a result, the Brussels police are no longer interested in trafficking in human beings. There are only 15 people in the Federal Police's human trafficking team, as Myria explained. As a result, existing services are underfunded, and there is no federal police unit specializing in sexual violence. Minister, where are the ways to combat violence against women, especially sexual violence? We still have many questions about the chapter on prostitution. Will this law, for example, make it easier for women who want to leave prostitution? Where is the difference between taking advantage of prostitution from the other, which under certain circumstances will become legal, and taking an abnormal advantage from it? We believe that this part of the bill is not yet on the table. In the debate we also saw that we are not the only group that feels that way. However, it is about an important matter. It would have been better if we had treated this reform of the law on prostitution separately from the rest of the sexual criminal law. "We believe you. Let us hear you." This is what the women were calling out recently when stories of cross-border behavior at Ghent University came up again. The feminist movement and the pressure and mobilizations that are there are beginning to bear fruit. Good steps are being taken in this text, but we could go further. There is still a long way to go before there is a society without violence, without sexual violence on women. The feminist movement can therefore count on the PVDA to fight for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u27	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a preliminary remark. It's not my habit, but we were just talking about the procedures in this house. We are modernising the sexual criminal law that has existed since 1867. Well, this house has existed since 1830. Sometimes I get the impression that we've stuck there a little bit. I'd like to get that off my chest. I do not think that we should go through such an important draft law at this time, about which so many interesting people have so many interesting things to say, anymore; we should think about such an organisation. I don't want to criticize anyone personally. I don't want to target anyone. I am already the tenth speaker, and that does not make it easy, one is despondent and tired, but that is not the way to go any longer. I thought after the corona crisis we learned how to organize ourselves more efficiently, but I don't notice much of it. I would like to call on the Conference of Presidents and all my fellow Members to do something about this. Having said that, there is an important bill here that will catapult sexual criminal law into modern times and that I will be happy to defend it with the Minister. It takes account of the contemporary view on the protection of victims and addresses the need for clear definitions and clear rules of law in an increasingly modern and evolving society. I would therefore like to thank everyone who has participated in this work in recent years, because it is not a work that started yesterday. My thanks go to the administration, to the experts, to the cabinet staff, who have spent a great deal of time on this, and to the colleagues of the committee, because there too there has been a great deal of debate. I certainly do not need to repeat that the fight against sexual violence is, of course, an absolute priority for our group. It is therefore logical and right that the Minister and his cabinet gave priority to this draft law. There needs to be a better and stricter approach to sexual violence. I fully agree with you, Mrs De Wit, that attention should be paid to the prevention of victims and their follow-up, but the Minister has stressed in many debates that this work is not finished and that many important steps will be taken. Eight people report rape to the police every day. But nine out of ten victims keep their mouths shut, out of shame or fear, perhaps because the unsub is a known guy from the area. We must also pay attention to this. Of course, the design transcends party boundaries. From a liberal point of view, we believe that personal freedom is crucial, as is the security of everyone. Those who are victims of violence, especially sexual violence, are not only affected by their security, but also by their freedom, because victims do not only feel safe on the streets or in their homes, but also often lose the freedom to go and stand wherever they want or to live carelessly. That is why it is important that adequate legislative work is carried out, and that is what we are doing today. We didn't go over a night of ice for this. The design has been thoroughly discussed and much preparation has been made. It was discussed in depth both at government level, where all the majority parties supported the text, and in committee. As usual, we have also organised hearings and consulted. As always, the opinions of experts were taken into account. Certain parties say that many amendments have been tabled. This means that the opinion of experts is indeed important. We could not, logically, take into account all the opinions which sometimes differed widely. Allow me to respond to three eye-catching adjustments. Firstly, the concepts of sexual assault and rape are brought more into line with the present tense. Criminal law provides for different penalties according to the age of the victim and the use of violence or threat. Mr Nones is gone now, and so is the rest of his group, because it is already 22 hours, for which all understanding. There is the impression that the draft is a women's issue; some men claim that they should not even speak or get the consent of their group, which I find somewhat odd. There are also men who are the victims of rape by a female perpetrator. It was legally difficult to attach a sentence to that, but in the new sexual criminal law, with the new definition of rape, male victims of female offenders are no longer in the cold. The penalties for rape are doubled, so that perpetrators of sometimes gruesome acts no longer get away with a much too light punishment, which rightly led to collective indignation in the past. Of course, it's the judge who judges every case on its own. Crucial is the consent or not with an act. The concept of consent is clearly defined for the first time in history, as is the limitation of the possibility of consent for minors. Permission always presupposes free will. Nor can it be inferred from a mere defence of a victim that there would be permission. The consent may also be withdrawn at any time during the sexual act. By defining consent, victims are given extra protection, and that is what this is about. We clearly write in that no means no. Better protection of victims is one of the priority objectives of the legislative text, and we do so by including these important definitions in the Criminal Code. I would like to come back to the fact that minors deserve additional protection when it comes to their sexual integrity. That is why it is specifically for them what is and is not allowed. The hearings have already shown that, among other things, age-related issues had to be taken into account. This was also recognised by the parties. Of course, one 15-year-old is not the other, just as one 16-year-old is not the other. We all have kids, but we had to make a choice. The principle is that minors under 16 years of age cannot give their consent. However, we are not blind to the fact that young people are experimenting among themselves. It should be possible. That's part of a normal development. That is why we also make the first exception that young people between 14 and 16 are allowed to have sex, of course only with permission, if the age difference with the other person is no more than 3 years. So a 14-year-old can have sex with a 17-year-old, but not with an 18-year-old. A justification for this was included in the text. Decriminalising sex work was a very important item for the Flemish Liberal Group. We deliberately do not choose to legalize the word here, which means that everything related to sex work would be poured into separate lines. That's not the point. The result could be to push further towards illegality. We recognise, of course, that this is certainly not the intention. That's not good. Those who say illegality say the risk of exploitation, abuse and trafficking in human beings. So we are opting for decriminalisation, but we want to be very clear as a group that everything that should remain criminal also remains effectively in the criminal law, such as trafficking in human beings, child prostitution and exploitation. An essential step in granting rights to sex workers is today decriminalisation. Article 380 of the current Criminal Code criminalizes any third party involved in another person's sex work. There must be some serious consequences on the ground. However, it is a utopia to think that we can eradicate prostitution. That's why we choose to decriminalize. In countries where attempts to ban prostitution have been made, this has led to even more undeclared work and exploitation. The current policy of tolerance in Belgium does create a great deal of uncertainty. Municipalities have tried to draw up rules themselves in the absence of a federal framework. However, such a local policy is fragmentary. We hope that we will be able to take further steps in this regard. Everyone wants a solution. The seriousness of the situation has now reached everyone in covid time. Sex workers were obliged to stop working, but they could not claim any support measures. The Open Vld has always advocated decriminalisation. I am glad that we are taking a first step today, but, of course, further steps need to be taken. We're aware of that, too. Initiatives will also have to be taken in other areas, such as the abolition of the nullity of contracts of employment, but also the development of a social status. Of course, trafficking in human beings remains a criminal offence. I told you. Of course, any form of abuse remains punishable. We listened carefully during the hearings. We have also tabled amendments to ensure that the line between the crime of trafficking in human beings and the abuse of prostitution is and remains very clear, and that there is indeed legal certainty, despite everything that has been said about this today. We are, after all, a pioneer in the field of rights and protection of sex workers. Only a few countries showed us that. The fact that we are joining that list gives our group a good feeling. So you will not be surprised that our group will support this draft. We are not just doing this because we have the competent minister in front of us and that he comes from our own ranks, or simply because we are part of the majority. No, we are truly convinced that this draft will bring added value. That, of course, there is still much work to be done with the new Criminal Code, everyone is aware of that. But the step we are taking today is a very important one. It provides for reform, stricter penalties, better protection for victims, and clearer penalties. We can only put our shoulders on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u28	Madam President, when I say that the legislation on sexual violence is in need of renewal, I will, of course, break an open door. It is therefore an important achievement that this reform brings us to a modern and clear criminal law. For the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, sexual criminal law is now being substantially improved. We are sending out a strong signal to the perpetrator and victim that our society takes such crimes very seriously. Others have already given detailed consideration to many elements, such as consent. Fortunately, where one should not have a no in the past, one should now have a valid yes. For Forward, this is an obvious but very important point. Permission is the core of permitted sexual activities, and no longer public morals or standards. It is rightly the philosophy of this design that a person chooses which part of a sexual experience one shares, as well as when, with whom and how. That's essential. In this draft, sexual self-determination is, quite rightly, accompanied by certain protection measures for minors and vulnerable persons, on the grounds that they are easier to put under pressure and that their consent may be undermined. In addition, we at Vooruit are very pleased that Karin Jiroflée's bill, which amends the sexual age of majority, was added to sexual criminal law. In Belgium, the age limit for sexual adulthood was 16. Sexual acts between minors under 16, even with mutual consent, were basically punishable. This reform will change that. Young people between 14 and 16 may consent to sexual acts if the other person is up to 3 years older. Studies show that a three-year age difference from psychological and sexual development points provides adequate protection against abuse. It also ensures that there is no doubt when young people both agree. This way young people do not end up in difficult situations when they get to know each other in a physical way. I would like to pay tribute to Mr Jiroflée, who was the author of a legislative proposal to regulate this. The regulation of the draft sexual criminal law is now particularly close to what it has been proposing all these years. This draft sends a clear signal to society that crimes in sexual criminal law are taken very seriously. Hence, of course, the corresponding increased penalties. I would now like to talk in particular about the decriminalisation of sex work and the role of third parties in it. It's not hard for me to defend this design. On the contrary, I will defend it with a lot of fire and a lot of passion. I'll just let a quote speak for itself. I quote the testimony of sex worker Veronique, who testified in the TV show Let: "I am now going to be able to tell my accountant that we can work together. I'm gonna go to the bank and get a loan, 'cause I couldn't. And besides, I'm going to be able to negotiate in a proper way; which wasn't possible before because I just wasn't very much in my shoes. I had nothing, but now that twilight zone is gone." That, colleagues, is why we did this. It's as simple as that. That is why we at Vooruit are so satisfied with this result. Indeed, the new regulation represents a major step forward for self-employed sex workers. It will be clear what can and what cannot be done with the twilight zone. There will be more security for the sex worker, combined with a intensified fight against abuse and also against trafficking in human beings. In addition, it is very satisfied that the final texts take the interests of the sex worker as a starting point, more precisely accepting sex work as a normal activity, which, while taking into account the risks, should be subject to specific rules. We have worked very hard on this at government level, by you and your cabinet and by many associations, in committee and behind the scenes. We have heard many organisations in the committee and have had many meetings and many informal contacts. This has proved to be particularly enriching. This work has been carried out with both those who are committed to increasing the rights and protection of sex workers and those who fight against abuse and trafficking in human beings. The good thing for me and my group is that a dynamic has emerged in which, for example, the centres for the victims of trafficking in human beings and Utsopi have found each other and together they have formulated constructive proposals. This dynamic has also begun to bear the bill. I am very grateful to them for that, and if this draft law can be adopted today, it is to a large extent thanks to them too. What can this further decriminalisation mean? An excellent example of how better protection for the sex worker and an increased fight against trafficking in human beings reinforce each other is that of advertising platforms for me. This is due to a somewhat later amendment proposed by Vooruit. Prior to that, no protocol agreements with the advertising platforms could be concluded by the public prosecutor and no clear agreements could be made. I'm sure we'll be able to do it soon. That legal basis will come and you will undoubtedly soon publish the royal decree with the minimum requirements. In this way, we will provide that safe space for the sex worker, including on the Internet, and at the same time we will also tackle abuse and exploitation. Exploitation situations are often under the radar and there is also the evolution towards Internet exploitation at all stages of exploitation, from recruitment over transport to the services themselves. It is therefore important to make progress in this area in order to be able to generalise certain good practices on that legal basis. Let me give you the example of the Redlights.be website, where a pop-up appears with a picture of a minor who may look like an adult and is asked whether that person is a minor or an adult, after which one is referred to Child Focus. The message is very clear and it is important to bear in mind that there may be advertisements involving minors and that one should not go into that and mention it when it comes to abuse. We will be able to impose that kind of thing on all authorized advertising platforms. That is a very concrete consequence of what is going on here today. We will be able to respond much better to all kinds of trends. Mr. Secretary, let me have another dream. You know that I would prefer to have a button on all those advertising platforms, so that the abuse can be reported immediately. You also know that there will be a committee for the fight against trafficking in human beings. Yesterday I called for a central hotline. In the ideal world there will be such a central hotline, where both police, emergency services and citizens can report all potential situations of exploitation and trafficking in human beings. Then much better can be connected by the parquet and networks can be rolled up much better. Mr Minister, in this ideal world we will soon be able to find a link to this on the advertising platforms. I would simply like to highlight the enormous potential this draft law will ultimately offer. This is not an evolution for me, it's a revolution. Finally, the further decriminalisation of the role of third parties goes hand in hand with the fight against abuses, of trafficking in human beings. So this is not about a choice between either, the options are mutually reinforcing. I am therefore very proud of this achievement of the majority parties. We shall, of course, vote in favour with complete conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u29	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, making a company is only possible if you feel respected, listened to and protected. The State must ensure security and respect for rights. The judicial path of the victims is too often similar to a double sentence. In addition to the initial psychological or body trauma, there is abuse and lack of recognition. Victims, particularly victims of sexual violence, must be heard and recognized. The importance of this project is enormous. When you announced the deposit, we obviously, as a first step, welcomed the progress made in this area. There is, of course, some progress in this draft voted in committee, and I will highlight them. On the other hand, I have told you and will continue to tell you all the harm I think about some of these aspects and the lack of protection of victims in certain areas. The Criminal Code must be revised, corrected, made current and also made legible. And we call for this comprehensive reform of all our wishes. We regret once again the fragmentation of the reforms and their inconsistency, since elements of the comprehensive reform have been copied as such without changing the basic principles and applying the current Penal Code. All this can make a hell of a soup. It is essential that the Criminal Code as a whole be coherent and readable and that the scale of penalties be reviewed, while the draft is revised upwards without further explanation. As Mrs. Tulkens, a high magistrate, said, "it is very important to deal with sexual offences, but doing so by extracting them from all the general principles of criminal law is strange, when they are inseparable. If we want to do so, we must do so well, not by artificially removing a matter from the Penal Code and not by cutting it off from its roots." And she goes further: "I have rarely seen anything so indigestible. It must be said and repeated that a criminal code must be a work that is shown to the public, to which it is addressed. It must be accessible, it is one of its essential and indispensable qualities." Avocado.be, too, criticized the fragmentation of the reform of the Criminal Code: "To make a two-step reform, by writing, from now on, a new sexual penal code while the reform of the Criminal Code was to be adopted in the near future, seems counterproductive and confusing. It goes without saying that such a process does not promote a better readability, however desired by the legislator of the Criminal Code. It is above all the reform of sexual criminal law that must be part of the more comprehensive reflection accompanying the reform of the Criminal Code." Ladies and gentlemen, we have had numerous hearings in connection with this project and the citizen voice has been able to express itself in a wide variety of ways. The question to be asked is whether it has been sufficiently taken into account. We don't think so. We also believe that, when the opinions of people on the ground, associations or even institutions are sought, it is our duty to seriously and openly consider what has been stated and to respond to it, at least on a reasoned basis when opinions are not followed. All the changes to this new Sexual Penal Code, which we will discuss later, will be useful only if first and foremost there exists in parallel and voluntarily, first, respect as a fundamental value, and the verification of consent as a way of life in sexual relations as in everything else. Second, an education, a radical change in mindset about the sexual approach. It is our children who must gradually learn this change of vision, from one approach to the other, from another look at the girl, the woman, the child, the relationship of seduction and sexual intercourse. Thirdly, as we have often pointed out, a criminal policy of zero tolerance towards perpetrators of sexual violence. Fourthly, appropriate means, both in personnel and in financial terms. Fifthly, a policy of sanctioning, educating and reintegrating those convicted of sexual offences, not all of whom are great criminals forever locked up and who, as culprits yesterday, will be tomorrow, when they leave prison, citizens in their own right. An approach that is no longer in prison, but above all an approach that gives meaning to sanctioning an intelligent fight against recidivism. Sixth, a rapid opening of the sexual violence support centres promised by the Minister. What progress has been made in this bill? The first point is the introduction of the positive concept of consent. So far, the Criminal Code used consent in a negative way to qualify rape. There is no consent if, or, when, etc. Article 375 of the Penal Code in the draft stipulates: "Any act of sexual penetration of any kind or by any means committed against a person who does not consent to it constitutes the crime of rape. There is no consent, in particular, where the act has been imposed by violence, coercion, threat, surprise, deception or has been made possible by reason of the victim's infirmity or physical or mental disability". The draft as finally voted defines more precisely the consent for all sexual offences. It assumes that it was given freely and should be considered in the light of all the circumstances of the case. Consent cannot be inferred from the absence of resistance and is never presumed. Everyone has a responsibility to verify this, including continuity. Any person may also withdraw his or her consent for the duration of the sexual act. These are important changes in behaviour that obviously raise the question of the burden of proof. Some would have wanted and advocated a complete reversal of the burden of proof. Many diverse discussions and amendments were put on the panel's table and positive collaboration with the cabinet and the minister allowed clarification of the text on the issue of consent and the tabling of an amendment that we co-signed. It provides that there shall be no consent when the act of a sexual nature has been committed by taking advantage of the situation of vulnerability of the victim due, inter alia, to the state of fear, the influence of alcohol, psychotropic substances or any other substance having a similar effect or to a disease or disability affecting free will. An important element, as counsel pointed out, is that the judge can always have sufficient discretion in the circumstances of the case, particularly in the situation where one or two drinks of alcohol are drunk, which will generally not lead to an alteration of the free will, but in some people, for example, with a certain illness or taking certain drugs that react more strongly to alcohol. It was also appropriate to stress, as was done through the amendment that we co-signed, that there is no question of questioning the ability of persons with physical and/or mental disabilities to live consented sexuality. Here again, the judge will assess the situation in the light of the circumstances of the case. What must and will change from now on is the importance of the victim's words. The latter is considered credible on the basis of its lack of consent. It must be his position that prevails. It is necessary to inculcate another way of reasoning, to believe the word of the victim despite the understandable inconsistency of his words after an act that will traumatize her for a long time. The second positive point is the question of the sexual majority. It is set at sixteen years, and that is right for us. This has the merit of clarity and helps to protect minors. There is an irrefutable presumption of non-consent under the age of fourteen and a possibility of consent from the age of fourteen if there is a difference of age of at least three years between persons. The hearings pointed out that the two-year difference in the original draft might be a little too narrow. For us, a three-year difference is acceptable but not beyond because it is indisputable that between a 14-year-old and another 18-year-old, the difference in maturity and evolution is really too important. An extremely positive point is incest. You know that I have been campaigning for incest to be included as such in the Criminal Code for many years. We regret, however, that you do not consider that, beyond eighteen years, the facts can be described as incest. Indeed, all the associations we have heard have informed us that if, in most cases, incest occurs before the age of 18, it happens after that age. It would have been much better for the victims, but also for the perpetrators, to qualify it as such. This would have allowed the victim to recognize himself in this offence and the perpetrator could not have thought that it was simply a private relationship that did not look at society. We have tabled, on two occasions, an amendment to provide for incest beyond 18 years, as many people had recommended. We re-tabled it in plenary because we believe that this is a weakness of this first part of the bill that relates to consent, incest, etc. Another positive point is the issue of sexual exploitation of minors. The text of the draft did not suit us at all because it made a difference between a minor under the age of sixteen and a minor over the age of sixteen. This difference was not acceptable. As if a 16-year-old was able to give a form of consent to his sexual exploitation! For field associations, child prostitution cannot be mentioned. This is necessarily about trafficking in human beings. A minor of age cannot consent to prostitution. We have therefore tabled various amendments. And we were finally able to obtain that, in the restrictions on the consent of minors, there is a presumption of lack of consent in matters of debauchery and prostitution. We welcome this step forward, which provides more comprehensive protection for minors in the face of their sexual exploitation. Unfortunately, there are problems with this project. We have had the opportunity to discuss this on several occasions in committee. We tried to convince you that it was not a question of adopting moral principles or principles according to which everyone would evolve, but rather of trying to have as protective a text as possible. I still fail to understand how, in the first part on consent and incest, you manage – it is strongly emphasized how well it is – to be super protective, and how, in the other part, you feel that you are completely next to the plate and that the principles mentioned in the first part are extremely quickly forgotten. It is not our intention to condemn sex work when it is chosen by a major person in complete freedom and not coerced by outsiders who want to profit from it. These sex workers, whether women or men, must be able to obtain a social status that allows them to live decently, totally independent of a pimp. We tabled amendments on this subject in committee, which were then passed through a bill by Minister Dermagne on the exception to invoke the nullity of the contract when a pimp wants to invoke the nullity of the contract as contrary to public order and morality. We fully subscribe to this vision of things, but as we have often said, we must not unblock the Penal Code in order to obtain a social status for sex workers. We must continue to work on social and labour law. The listener of the work Clesse has come back to tell us how important he is to this problem and to this question. An answer was given, inter alia, through Minister Dermagne's project. Moreover, the call for vigilance by certain associations should not be forgotten. Prostitution is very often a continuum of violence against women. Entry into prostitution is never accidental. Moreover, violence is ubiquitous in prostitution itself on the part of pimps, clients and other sectors; insults, threats, humiliations, physical assaults generate a whole range of prostitutional violence that society considers to be consented only because money is exchanged. In the preliminary draft, pimping had been completely decriminalized to make way for sexual exploitation with abnormal advantage. Following the opinion of the Council of State and the note by the College of Attorneys General, pimping has been reintroduced. Despite amendments, this text remains far too open to interpretation and opens the door to unacceptable exploitation. It should be recalled that international law prohibits all forms of exploitation of prostitution. The Convention for the Suppression of the Traffic in Persons and of the Exploitation of the Prostitution of Others, 1950 (New York), ratified by Belgian law of 6 May 1965, prohibits any form of exploitation of prostitution, whatever its form, and even if the sex worker has freely agreed to prostitution. Compliance with the Convention implies that prostitution should not be promoted and that procuring should not be legalized. We should also recall the 1979 Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, ratified by Belgium in 1995, which, in article 6, obliges States parties to take all appropriate measures, including legislation, to eliminate, in all their forms, trafficking in women and exploitation of prostitution of women. Of course, we are concerned that the redefinition of pimping in the project reinforces the impunity of exploiters and pimps, so much so that the notion of "abnormal advantage derived from prostitution" may be subject to various interpretations. Let us recall that you referred, Minister, to New Zealand's texts as a model for this project. All right, except that New Zealand has not ratified the New York Convention and is therefore not required to implement it. There is also a difficulty with advertising for prostitution. Advertising for prostitution is prohibited unless it is carried out for its own sexual services. These exceptions in the bill therefore allow for advertising on all media. Here too, the door is open to all excesses, including the Eros center. I would like to share with you the German experience. Germany amended its law on procuring in 2002. Now and for the past few years, they have tried the closed houses, which are swarming in Germany, so much so that a French newspaper said: "Germany, Europe's biggest brothel." The decriminalization of pimping has produced an alarming result. The prostitution market had exploded, international organized crime groups had increased and the number of prostitutes trafficked had increased sharply. It is our fear that this relaxation of procurement and the application of the Services Directive will lead to the massive arrival of foreign people who are victims of trafficking in human beings. Despite the major statements that - and this is another weakness of this text - prison must be the ultimate remedy, it must be noted that this bill increases the level of penalties and does not fall within the scheme proposed by the Criminal Code Reform Commission. This aspect is severely criticized by Avocats.be, which notes that the thresholds of penalties for sexual offences are all systematically and heavily raised. Lawyers.be regrets this purely repressive option, contrary to the intentions of the Criminal Code Reform Commission. In the Committee on Justice, we have taken part in a good debate on the meaning of the sentence, particularly the prison sentence, both as a sanction and as a fight against recidivism. I have the impression that these positive exchanges have been completely forgotten in this project. This is a pity, especially in view of the comprehensive reform of the Penal Code. I also regret that the penalty of treatment imposed is not included in such a project, although it could play an essential role. What will we do with this Code when we finally manage to deal with the entire Criminal Code? Are we going to change the general principles and the scale of sentences, when this Code will hardly be passed? By way of conclusion, I would like to recall all the open-mindedness that you have shown with regard to this text, not hesitating, in some respects, to listen to the opposition. You are the only minister of the Vivaldi government to do so regularly. There are always positive points to be made. It's the Engaged Effect, you see! However, I will tell you that the protective mechanisms of the victims, which we applaud and support and which you develop in the first part, completely disappear in the chapter on prostitution. We deeply regret it. There can be no pacification of life in society, and therefore no justice, if victims are not recognized as such, if victims are not protected, if victims are silent for fear of reprisals from networks, beatings and violence. There is no justice when prosecutions against perpetrators are random, when they are made more difficult or impossible. With your Sexual Penal Code and the way you deal with prostitution, exposing victims to exploitation, perpetrators to impunity and even more deprived police services in terms of means and possibilities to investigate, you do not give the State its mission to ensure the security and respect of everyone's rights. This indispensable compass of the Penal Code and what is expected of everyone in a soothing society no longer indicate the course. For all these reasons, the group Les Engaged will vote against your project.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u30	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when I was at university and had the opportunity to go out to this now famous district of Ixelles Cemetery, I knew perfectly well that I had to pay attention to my outfit, that I had to pay attention to what I could or could not put in my glass, all in the hope of not being assaulted or even raped. It was as obvious as it was unacceptable and unbearable, and today this reality has never been more systemic, because sexual violence has never been so widespread. This is not only in the public, private, but also on social networks. Ironically, it was these same social networks that allowed brave women and girls to organize themselves through these movements metoo, balancetonbar, spontonport, spontonfolklore, all to denounce what finally had to stop. Today, almost one in two Belgians has been subjected to sexual violence, half of them before their majority. Today, 20 per cent of women and 24 per cent of young people have already been raped. It is thanks to these girls and women that politics realized that, behind these figures published by Amnesty International, there are forever broken lives. Today, fear has to change sides. Impunity of perpetrators must stop and young girls must no longer be potential ad vitam victims who have to hide in order to avoid the worst or silence, to avoid reprisals, insults and even more serious acts. That is why, Minister, when you announced your proposal to reform the Sexual Penal Code, you gave them the signal that we believe them, that we take them seriously, but also that young women such as Julie Van Espen did not ultimately die for nothing. Except that a reform of such magnitude could not, as you originally wanted, be voted on by the Hussard. In fact, it was our very long hours of hearing in committee that enabled us to arrive at a text that was much more complete, more balanced than the one you had proposed to us at the beginning of our work. I remember exchanges that I had with lawyers of rape victims or victims of human trafficking who feared that by misnamed offences, your new sexual penal code would end up turning against the victims they were supposed to protect. I therefore wanted first of all to thank all the citizens and organisations who have mobilized to free the words of the victims and shake politics in the face of the urgency of finally acting. It was their testimony that prompted us to table our bills and then your bill. This text is of course the result of our long constructive work in committee. But let us humble ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, that it is also and above all the fruit of the courage of the victims and their entourage. Mr Minister, the start of this reform was not without pain, first of all, because feminist associations were not initially agreed on your reform. Let us acknowledge, ladies and gentlemen, that this is quite incomprehensible because, as we know, the vast majority of victims of sexual violence are women and the vast majority of perpetrators are men. Secondly, this reform was carried out outside of a reform of the Comprehensive Criminal Code and also of the criminal procedure. Knowing that today, more than half of the rape complaints are closed, it can be said that the disjunction of these two reforms is ultimately a missed opportunity. The challenge today is that the release of the word that is observed on social networks will land in our police stations and in our courts, which unfortunately still happens too rarely given the lack of confidence of the victims in our justice system, in its ability to react quickly and thus to protect them quickly from their execution. Our objective today is to tell them that, from now on, they can have confidence, not only through offences and penalties that are much more appropriate than today, but also through a criminal procedure that helps them in their courageous and, above all, so heavy and difficult complaint process. We could have had a real debate, for example, on the legal assistance of victims at their first hearing or on the place of MRI as evidence of the trauma caused by rape. Unfortunately, that will not be the case. I therefore take the opportunity to ask you the question directly, minister. When are you going to propose your reform of the criminal procedure? Why does your Code provide for the amendment of six articles of the Code of Criminal Procedure, but not for the introduction of new articles which, for their part, are intended to relieve victims in their actions? Finally, the reform of the legislation on prostitution, which has always been undermined by its hypocrisy, which plunges sex workers into precariousness and insecurity, will ultimately not be accompanied by a real social status for prostitutes when you promised, as did your colleague, the Minister for Employment, Mr Dermagne. However, it is up to me from the ground that sex workers are currently developing this status with you. I am therefore pleased that the lack of consultation initially noted is no longer to be deplored and that this consultation takes place. I come to the substance of this reform or, in any case, to the central elements of it, given the late hour. As far as consent is concerned, so far it has been considered rape if there is no consent without ever defining it. Tomorrow, this consent will finally be defined, which will help the judges in their work, but which will also give greater legal certainty to all the litigants. This definition is in line with that proposed by Mrs Matz's bill. The aim was to emerge from unbearable prejudices, sexist prejudices according to which, for example, when a woman does not clearly say no or when she wears a skirt or a neckline, she is necessarily consenting. I also hear too often that when a girl dredged a boy during an evening, she necessarily tried to have sex with him. Today, by expressly providing in the Criminal Code that consent may be withdrawn at any time or during the sexual act, the victim will be protected. I referred earlier to the constructive spirit of the work we had in committee in order to achieve a balanced text. This is particularly the case with the definition of consent. In fact, initially, Minister, you wanted to predict that when a person is in a vulnerable situation due to the effects of alcohol or narcotics, for example, he or she would be deemed not to have given his or her consent. You thus heard the scale of the rapes committed using drugs or alcohol, a phenomenon highlighted by the movement "Balance your bar". We could only support you in this regard, especially in the light of a study by American clinical psychologist David Lisak who revealed that 80% of young rapists who recognize their facts admit that they targeted young girls under the influence of alcohol precisely because it was – I quote – easier. Not to mention the effects of cannabis, or Xanax, which are multiplied when the person is alcoholic. Nevertheless, as the bar associations have pointed out, the vulnerability due either to excess alcohol or other substances, or to illness or disability, does not deprive such persons of the possibility of consenting to sexual intercourse. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the PTB, foreseeing a presumption of non-consent in these circumstances by the mere fact that there is a situation of vulnerability would de facto violate the important principle of presumption of innocence. Fortunately, a compromise was reached in committee by introducing the notion of abuse of vulnerability. In other words, the victim will indeed have to prove that she was in a situation of vulnerability and that the alleged perpetrator abused the same situation of vulnerability. From the moment these two criteria are met, the victim will automatically benefit from a presumption of non-consent, a presumption that currently does not exist in the law. So this is, yes, a step forward. We have to recognize him. As far as the sexual majority is concerned, we must be on the right side. This was an extremely sensitive issue, since it was necessary to strike an appropriate balance between the protection of young people and respect for their sexuality, which evolved over the years, and particularly in adolescence. In this regard, although I recognize a step forward, I still wonder why the ability to consent to sexual intercourse is recognized to a fourteen-year-old when his partner is seventeen, but not when he is eighteen. The age difference will always be arbitrary. I said it in committee and I still think so today. The reason for which the judge must be able to assess the circumstances, in particular the possible recognized position of trust, authority or influence on the minor, which is expressly provided for in the new Code. Even if I always wonder by whom this position should be recognized. Perhaps the Minister of Justice will be able to clarify this matter. Nevertheless, most of the experts interviewed, such as the Conseil des femmes francophones de Belgique, the Centre d'action seculare, Child Focus or the members of the Commission for the Reform of Criminal Law, mandated by your predecessor, but with whom you have also worked, Minister, have argued for the introduction of a wider age difference, namely five years and not three years. The difference in age is, moreover, a serious practical problem. The first paragraph of Article 6(2) of the text adopted in committee provides for the rule of the age difference of up to three years. However, the second paragraph allows an exception in order to increase this difference to just over three years, for example in the case of a relationship between a 14-year-old and a 17-and-a-half-year-old. This situation would therefore be legal through your second subparagraph. However, a year later, the same relationship would become illegal. This situation is incomprehensible and, moreover, contrary to the wishes of some colleagues of the majority, in particular my colleague from Ecolo, who rightly explained that the Penal Code does not have to interfere with consenting relations. I now come to the incest, which will finally make its entry into the Penal Code, a real victory for the associations that represent the victims who have been carrying this claim for years. I am thinking in particular of SOS Inceste or Women of Law, whose tenacity is to be welcomed. Moreover, it was these associations that convinced me to fight this fight, which is in fact only the logical follow-up of another fight that I had the opportunity to conduct at the beginning of the legislature and which enshrines the imprescriptibility of paedophile crimes and, consequently, the recognition of the magnitude of the incest in our country, but also of the influence of the authors on their victims. That is why I was pleased to be able to co-sign Senator Matz's bill to incriminate incest and then see it appear in your bill, minister. However, I regret, like some colleagues, that the criminalization of incest will only concern minors. For majors, we will no longer speak of incest, but of non-consensual domestic acts. In doing so, Minister, we deny what incest is, that is, a continuum of violence that usually begins in childhood but lasts in adulthood. I must therefore resubmit my amendment, which aims to retain this notion of incest for adults, because a victim of incest does not have to be denied recognition simply because of his age. Another subject on which I would like to return quickly is the voluntary rather than mandatory nature of the opinion requested from the specialized services in the field of sexual crime. Minister, you justified this regression in that it would not always be wise to seek this kind of opinion, because some sexual offences "would not necessarily be a sign of a sexual problem to be addressed". That is probably true, except that there is the question of who is best able to determine it. In your opinion, it would be the magistrate, the public prosecutor, the investigating judge or the trial judge, on the basis of their sole discretion, which is obviously valuable. But on the basis of what expertise? In the future, although you are announcing specialized training for the police, the judiciary and the bar, it will never replace the recognized expertise of treatment centres and support centres, which are composed of psychologists specialized in legal psychology or sexology. It is therefore logical that both the Superior Council of Justice and the Brussels Support Centre – which is familiar with the profiles of sex offenders – are convinced that the advice of specialized services should be sought. I understand that an assessment of your measure is planned in two years, in any case two years after the coming into force of this Act, and that if it turns out that the optional notice does not work, it could be reconsidered at that time. We would therefore be doing some kind of test by taking the risk that sex offenders would go through the grid of justice or go to prison without proper care. I confess that it makes me uncomfortable enough, especially when we see the remarkable work done today by the support centres and their results in reducing recidivism. I therefore have to resubmit my amendment, which is intended to retain the mandatory nature of this opinion. I must also call on you, Minister, to sustain the funding of these centres, which are responsible for rendering these reports, as well as the recruitment of psychiatrists. Because in ten years, Minister, the number of cases to be managed by the Brussels Support Centre has increased by 203%. And in the meantime, the FPS Justice grant has increased by 3%. In other words, the indexing of the salaries of the staff of these centres is not even a response. This is just unacceptable because it totally compromises the fulfilment of their legal mission, namely to reduce recidivism, but also, and consequently, to avoid new victims. I therefore hope, minister, that you will hear the call that was made to you earlier by your predecessor, namely to invest in the execution of sentences, but also in an intelligent follow-up of sex offenders. For, ladies and gentlemen of Vlaams Belang, if to allow people to croup in prison to eventually turn them into time bombs had the effect of limiting recidivism, I think that would have been known for a long time. Let's go to prostitution! I said, at the beginning of my speech, that this bill also puts an end to the hypocrisy around prostitution by framing an activity that has been closed for too long to the detriment of prostitutes and to the ill-intentioned people who exploit their situation, or even the war they flee (it was discussed earlier about the dramatic situation in Ukraine). Of course, I am thinking of human traffickers, but also of sleep merchants, pimps, rapists. The decriminalization of prostitution is the first step in this direction. Except that this is only a first step, Minister, leaving you the free field to provide for cases in which the organization of the prostitution of others will not be considered as pimping, a concept which, thanks to the warning screams launched by Samilia or the College of Attorneys General, has finally been introduced into your draft Penal Code. In other words, Minister, you have chosen to deal separately with the decriminalization of prostitution, the social status of prostitutes and the fight against trafficking in human beings, while these issues are closely linked and must therefore be dealt with simultaneously, in particular, in order to prevent this decriminalization from taking place at the expense of the most vulnerable persons and, in particular, minors who are increasingly involved in prostitution, but also victims of trafficking. To respond to this criticism, you wanted, in a way, to give you a good conscience, with the introduction by the last minute majority in committee, of a new Article 83, which provides for a multidisciplinary assessment of the chapter on the abuse of prostitution, in two years' time. Forgive me, but that is not enough, if only to ensure equal treatment between employed sex workers and those who are self-employed, since only those who are self-employed will benefit from your bill. My group will not support, however, the amendment by Les Engagés, aimed at delaying the entry into force of this chapter and, therefore, at abolishing it, because the actors on the ground, yes, need it now. As for revenge porn, I am satisfied that its penalization is foreseen, even if the victim had given his consent, when recording the images. I believe, however, that we could have gone further, by providing for a presumption of lack of consent, when the images constitute acts of sexual violence, as suggested by the association "Women of Law". That is the meaning of my other amendment on this subject. Finally, I had to welcome two advances in sentencing. First, the concept of aggravating grounds of discrimination. Secondly, the possibility of alternative penalties, such as labour probation sentences or the prohibition of contact. I come to my conclusion. This text does not go far enough or later pushes back crucial points. This reform therefore has a taste of incompleteness but also gives the feeling of having to buy a cat in a bag, in any case for the part relating to prostitution. At the same time, I was reassured by the constructive debates that we had in committee, because they allowed for progress that my party had been defending for a long time. The definition of consent, the harmonization of the sexual majority, the criminalization of incest, the regulation or rather the decriminalization of prostitution or the increase of alternative penalties to imprisonment. That is what ultimately drives us to support your bill. We want to give you the benefit of the doubt, minister. It is not, however, a blank cheque, under no circumstances. We will therefore closely monitor the continuation of your work, which will therefore be the continuation of our own work, whether it be the General Criminal Code, the criminal procedure, the social status of prostitutes or the implementation of this new sexual penal code because I will not bear the burden of relying on this sexual penal code alone, to the exclusion of the accompaniment of the victims, we will finally create false expectations on their part. You yourself recognized him in committee, Minister. We were in November. I quote: "The Penal Code will not change everything. We need a better reception of the victims." My group will ensure that your important promise is kept. It is ultimately the least we owe to all those who have been mobilizing for months or even years against sexual violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, I have just listened very carefully to Koen Geens, who has put our noses on the facts and pointed out the enormous challenges we face if we want to modernise justice. He also stressed that it is often difficult to move forward quickly. I think it is therefore also important that the chapter on sexual crimes was removed from the penal code, as we all felt that we should not wait any longer to begin that reform. We know that with the modernisation of our penal code, we are facing a huge task. It's not the easiest way either, but by taking this part out, we've discovered a lot of legal problems that others have already talked about. However, it was the right choice. After all, sexual criminal law needed a serious update, it was outdated. You know, ladies and gentlemen, when we used to deal with criminal law-related issues and we saw the titles of the penal code, we could read that the sexual crimes and rape were found under the title 'Missing against the order of the family and public morality'. Rape was a felony against the order of the family, it was a family scandal. Times have changed. I would like to say that the text and the code were obsolete. It was also unclear. The whole discussion about sexual adulthood was often very difficult in practice. This has now become clearer, although it may not be clear enough for some. However, we cannot deny that it has become clearer. We can make choices about that, we can discuss age. The law also contained gaps. Colleagues, less than a year ago, we were able to read an article in the newspaper on a charge of voyeurism. This article was titled 'He filmed under the skirts of 20 women, but judge speaks voyeur freely because victims were wearing underwear'. The way in which the crime of voyeurism is currently contained in the penal code forces the judge to exonerate someone when the recordings of the voyeur show that there was still a garment under the skirt. We've made that right. To this end, we had also tabled legislative proposals because no one understood that voyeurs were sometimes acquitted. This draft law also introduces a modernisation which has also been mentioned for a long time, namely the depenalisation of prostitution. As many colleagues have already spoken about this, I do not go into it in more detail. A substantial modernisation was necessary and desirable. In recent years, all kinds of cases of sexual abuse and crimes have received a great deal of media attention. Many of these judgments often affect the moods, which does not always make it easy for the Minister of Justice to explain. He is faced with a judgment on which he is clearly unable to express his opinion as a minister. This new law clearly sets new beacons. One of the greatest merits of this law is the new definition of consent. I cannot stress the importance of this, including in practice. In addition to all the other amendments introduced by this law, that definition is essential. Other speakers have already gone into this in more detail, which I will not repeat, but this definition will make a difference in many cases. If I take the floor today to express our support for this draft law, it is also because I am very close to the issue. I rarely speak in the Chamber, but I would like to mention some of the experiences I have personally experienced as a lawyer today, which I do with some caution, because it is difficult to talk about that. I mention an experience of 15 years ago, when I was a lawyer for 14 of the 19 victims of a serial rapist, in a case involving nineteen bourgeois parties. It wasn't just 19 victims, it was 19 stories going through marrow and bone. As a lawyer, it was my job to hear the story of 14 victims and read the criminal records that I never forgot. Many of the cases I have dealt with, I do not remember exactly, but such matters are never forgotten. Even the first names I remember: An, Anja, Evelien. It was 19 broken young lives from a rape case using narcotics like Rohypnol. Everything was filmed 15 years ago. It also required enormous courage on the part of the victims to be bourgeois. We must not underestimate the gloom and the fear of coming out with it and the shame of talking about it. Nineteen times they also get the same explanation from the unsub: "There was permission. There was no problem. She may have had too much to drink and won't know what happened." You'll hear it in court from a lot of unsubs. It's always the same logical explanation and the same story. They have no sense of guilt or guilt. It's always someone else's fault. That will be done now. The definition of consent that is in it today will make a big difference in practice. Fifteen years ago, ladies and gentlemen, I heard the female prosecutor claim the sentence: five years effective and available. She spoke hesitantly, a little apology, because she couldn't progress anymore. She couldn't claim more than five years for a serial rapist of at least nineteen known cases. The judge also ruled that five years and posting together with a heavy compensation. The judge couldn't do more than that either, because that was the arsenal he had at his disposal. However, the posting was subsequently destroyed by the Court of cassation, since there was no possibility of making available in the event of a conviction for rape using narcotic drugs. That was because the drug infringement was more severe and the most severe penalty applied. Fortunately, we were able to change that here in the Chamber about ten years ago. By the way, I think that Mr De Wit and I have worked together to overcome that gap. That has happened, and there was bewilderment and disbelief among victims and family that there was only a five-year sentence for such acts. That's what I'm thinking back today when I see the bill. We can discuss many aspects of the law and disagree with a particular aspect of the law, namely that there should be a point and a comma and that the penalty should be higher there and so on, but we must not forget that we are taking a very big step today which will really benefit the victims. Fifteen years ago, the posting was not possible. In the meantime, that's settled. Fifteen years ago, there were no care centers after sexual violence. Victims couldn't go there for immediate medical examination and psychological care. There was no civilian police present at the hospital to immediately prepare a pv. Afterwards one had to dare to take the step to the police station. If one was unlucky, one had to wait in line to do his or her story after the declaration of a lost identity card and a stolen bicycle. Much has changed in 15 years and I am very pleased that the government has also taken the step towards further development of care centres after sexual violence. That is one of the greatest achievements of the past few years that will make a huge contribution to supporting victims and to gathering evidence and making it easier for perpetrators to be brought to justice. Fifteen years ago, the maximum sentence was five years. She's gonna be doubled today. We can discuss this. For some it will never be enough and may be even more, for others it may be too much, but the judge will now have a wider fourchette to make choices on a case-by-case basis. If it is not extremely difficult, it will also be possible. The work is not done, Minister. Colleagues have already said that. Much can still be improved. The evidence is essential. There are still too many dismissals, but with care centres following sexual violence and, for example, with projects such as code 37 in Antwerp, we are also taking steps forward to ensure that there is better evidence and that more and more of the perpetrators can be brought to court. I will conclude with a point that deserves special attention. Fifteen years ago, a victim was not entitled to an attorney's assistance, nor today. An unsub, a suspect does. The assistance of a lawyer, especially in such cases, and certainly in other cases where there are victims, is absolutely crucial. It is not today's debate, although some have launched this proposal through amendments. We must also have this debate. At the time, I myself put forward legislative proposals to improve access to justice. I know what a long and difficult journey that is sometimes, because it is also complex. We must also begin this debate. Fifteen years ago, the victims were able to receive assistance from thoughtful, understanding police officers who contacted them to ensure that those young victims who did not have, or did not have, any family legal assistance, but should ask their parents to take up that insurance and did not dare to do so, did not remain in the cold. That was resolved in a very human way at the time, but that is not the way to do it. That should be structural. We'll have to work on that in the years to come. We must do that for the many victims, for An, Anja, Katrien, Evelien and the many other tens and hundreds, thousands of victims who are there every year. First and foremost, we will adopt this draft law, with a great deal of conviction, because it is a very big step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks for the way in which the debate has been conducted here, for the personal testimonies, for the fact that tonight we have managed to get rid of majority and opposition, for the fact that we have been critical from the opposition and the majority, for the fact that we have shown our doubts, but also for the great determination of many, who have called this draft law a step forward. This brings us to the end of a lengthy debate, which we have also conducted in the right way, with the right method, with the previous government taking the lead in preparing a text, then taking the time to listen to experts and dozens of organisations in interesting hearings and, after the written opinions, showed Parliament and the government the willingness to adapt the text in the course of the discussion on the basis of the opinions and suggestions of majority and opposition. All that took a year. You will argue that this is a long time, but in a democracy it is necessary to come up with a text that is worn out and is the expression of what a democratic parliament means to say. I'll give you two figures tonight that stayed with me. Sixteen out of a hundred women in our country were faced with rape or attempted rape in their lives. Five out of a hundred men have suffered the same fate. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament has 150 Members. I can imagine that some of us have also had to endure that fate. Sexual violence is a pandemic about which little is spoken. This evening, you showed in plenary that Parliament is taking this issue seriously and that we want to move forward together. Of course, the answer of justice is by definition always an answer that is too late. Justice doesn't come into play until it's already done. It takes so much more than just justice. It was said once: open a school, you close a prison. That's one of the wiser boutades I've ever heard. Especially when it comes to sexual crimes, sexual acts, infringements, it is oh so important to talk about the right things very early in people's lives. I have a five-year-old daughter. I sat in the car with her, and she said, "Daddy, a girl told me that her boyfriend had to send her bare poop; what do you think? She's five years old. I cannot imagine that when I was 5 years old I would be confronted with such a thing. The world is evolving so fast, and the impact of social media on our children is unlikely to be great. Justice can't be the only answer to that. The new sexual criminal code cannot be the only answer to that either. We have said with the government from day one that it is an unlikely battle for us, but we are also doing much more than passing laws. I was two or three weeks ago with my colleague Nathalie Muylle in Roeselare, where together we opened a care centre after sexual violence, the sixth in our country. There was a full room of, among other things, a lot of enthusiastic staff members who are part of that team. There was also a lady of 81 years of the People's Union, a warrior of many wars for the shelter of victims. He told me it was so important to her. Well, those care centers are really making a difference today. Today, 7 out of 10 victims reported in a care center are willing to report to the police as well. 7 out of 10. Without such a care centre, as many colleagues have said, that is 1 in 10. You can see the difference that such a center can make. That is what we are investing tens of millions of euros in. That started under Mrs. Sleurs. That's where it started. There are the efforts that Mr Schlitz is making to make this possible. That's so unlikelyly important. We guarantee by 2023 to every countryman that he or she will be able to visit such a care centre within the hour. A care center that is open 24/7. Where indeed, Mr Van Hecke, it would be good if we could also assign lawyers to victims. Why not start in the care centres with that idea, introduced by Mr Boukili, to think about Salduz for victims? Why wouldn't we? Why shouldn't we give them that right, like suspects and perpetrators have that right? So we need to make more declarations, and I am convinced that this method and these centres will allow more people to speak, and that we will be able to help more as well as as the Justice Department. But we also need to cut back on our dismissals. There are enormous frustrations about that. The figures given are terrible. To be honest, I don't think our parquets are paying any more attention to that. It's been a long time since our parquets covered this as a detail. The problem is, as Mr Van Hecke said, that suspects always say that there was permission. It's word against word. There's a suspicion of innocence, and the Justice Department has to prove that that person is guilty. With classical methods, there is little to expose the suspect as a perpetrator. We're developing new methods. Code 37 in Antwerp, now extended to other arrondissements, ensures that there is much more persecution. Antwerp has proven that we have been able to double the number of convictions for rape by that method. Justice also needs to work faster. It was colleague Geens who told me that at the end of last year the court of assistants ruled on the case of Julie Van Espen's murder in 2019. The defendant confessed and yet it took two and a half years to convict that person. The new sexual criminal code is not the final word. The final part is indeed the execution of the sentence. If someone's convicted, then the job starts to get that person straight again. That is the tragedy of our country, a tragedy that we have been dragging along for decades, the drama of the overpopulation of our prisons, the forgetful pits of our society. We have 35 prisons in our country and 16 of them are still built according to the principles of Ducpétiaux, namely to isolate the prisoner years and he will come to his senses. It is only recently that we are building new prisons according to a different principle. We should be humble and ashamed when we look at those prisons. There is no mental health care there and people do not even have a RIZIV number. A forensic circuit is non-existent there, 20% of the people are on medication and have underlying problems and addiction and only at the end of the sentence one is thinking about doing something about it. And then we're surprised that 7 out of 10 of those people are getting into crime again. We do need pennies. Colleague Nonees is right. We're going from two to two and a half billion in 2024. What progress should a Minister of Justice say, but even with the 2.5 billion, that problem is not solved. There is also the slowness of justice and the fact that it is taking far too long and that we are about to open a prison in Dendermonde that was built according to the principles of the last century. In politics there is something else, namely courage, courage to do things. Allow me to say the following. If we want to achieve punishment in a different way, we will have to make choices. This started with the two transition houses in Mechelen and Edingen. The detention centers follow. We all agree that we want to do it. If I ask you to provide such a detention center in your city or municipality, it will remain silent. I don't blame you. Who am I to blame you for that? However, we will not see any change if we do not dare to make those choices. The change we are making to the new Criminal Code is indeed a significant change. We're 155 years after the Criminal Code of 1867. At that time, the code of conduct, like the Napoleon Code and our Constitution, was far ahead of its time. In 1867, for the first time, they tried to decouple morality from what was punishable. Meanwhile, we have evolved and the law of 1867 still bathed in the honor of the family, the morality. In the meantime, sexuality has become something of freedom, of self-determination, of decision-making. However, the law had not or hardly evolved. The nudist beach in Bredene, which we find evident today, had to be tolerated by the District Attorney of West Flanders because it did not actually fit into the then penal law. When the scandal broke loose in this Parliament about the basketball coach who was secretly watching players, taking pictures and sending them over, there was no incriminating of voyeurism and trying to grasp everything under the assault of honorability. In the beginning, the sexual assault of the honourable Member required violence and threat, to which later ruse and surprise were added. The Court of cassation stated that sexual assault of honor stops where voyeurism begins. The person in question was acquitted by the court of appeal because the act he had committed was not punishable by the rules. Parliament therefore committed the criminalisation of voyeurism in 2015-2016. My predecessor will correct me if necessary. The Criminal Code of 1867 had become an old house with lots of barnyards, real barnyards, since one element after the other was added. Now Parliament succeeds in building a new house, which will stand the test of time for a long time. I believe that this new house contains five important principles. A first principle is the much discussed consent. In the absence of resistance, one cannot deduce permission. In this respect, we will see a change in court, as cases will be looked at in a different way later, even if the facts have occurred fifteen years or more ago. A second important principle is that we should finally make room for the sexual development of minors. Many of you have already fought for this in Parliament, through different legislative periods. I pay tribute to my colleague Sabien Lahaye-Battheu who started the debate on this at the time. I also pay tribute to Karin Jiroflée and Karine Lalieux, who have tabled legislative proposals on this subject, and also to Katja Gabriels and Carina Van Cauter, who now has a different function. All these people have made that a battle. I believe that the balance we have found today is a good and balanced one. The sexual majority is valid from the age of 16. Actions under 16 years of age can be made subject to permission and with an age fork of three years. Above that there is a justification. That may not be the perfection, Mrs De Wit, but it shows a criminal law that takes into account today's reality, with young people experiencing sexuality. The third principle is that we enter the 21st century by means of this code, because public morality is reduced to its true proportions. There are only two more cases of public sexual desecration that are punishable, namely exhibitionism and the production or distribution of content of an extremely pornographic or violent nature. The fourth principle is modernisation. We introduce new definitions and also pay attention to new phenomena. There has been talk of spiking, the administration of defenseless substances, which is finally seen as a new aggravating circumstance. This is a reality which unfortunately is far too common in our society today. Finally, I should like to say a few words about the measure of punishment. You will forgive me, Mr None. We are determined to opt for customized punishments, in addition to the classic punishments. I know that about Article 8 of the Probation Act, I'm sorry I'm getting technical, there's some swell. Some ask the question of how in the name of God one can still grant probation if there is a second time there are criminal offences. Many of you have asked that question, but the experts also felt that this was an important point. By making this possible, a judge can turn to the fight against recidivism. I'll give you an example of an expert I found very striking. It was about a man who had previously committed thefts and was convicted of it and who subsequently committed partner violence. An expert said about that case that it would have been useful to impose behavioral therapy, aggression management and relationship guidance on that person, because that is much more effective than the classic punishment given in partner violence. That doesn't mean that this is an obligation on the court. It's a possibility, the judge can pronounce probation, but he's not obligated to do that. We give judges the opportunity to make tailor-made decisions. You will say that I give the judges and the magistrate a great deal of confidence. Sometimes there are statements that you, as Members of Parliament, may not understand. You might read a certain title or a certain piece in the newspaper. We will hopefully soon also make it possible for you to read the verdict quickly. That's always more important. To get rid of that misunderstanding once and for all, when we talk about a criminal justice system, it's not about the strictest punishment, it's about the custom punishment. That's important. Justice is not something that affects everyone equally. The strength of a good justice system is that one approaches people individually, that one looks at the profile of the person and the context. In this way one can impose the right, accurate punishment. That is why we have made that choice, Mrs De Wit, Mrs Bury. Colleagues, I would also like to thank some of us, including my predecessor, Koen Geens, who started this beautiful story. I would also like to thank the staff of the SFP Justice. These are four women, Nancy Colpaert, Marie Debauche, Margot Taeymans and Claire Huberts, who are listening to us right now because they are very proud. Of course, I would also like to thank the three experts who have accompanied us in the field of sexual criminal law and also accompany us in the great work, the new penal code, namely Mrs Rozie, Mr Vandermeersch and Mr De Herdt. I would also like to thank three cabinet staff, Mrs Peeters, Mrs Debacker and Mrs Steenbergen. We've heard and seen a lot of people and organizations. Some of you have referred to critical advice from, among other things, the College of Attorneys General. Of course, we have a great deal of attention to that. After his remarks, we have also fundamentally adapted the texts. That's how we added the chapter on abuse of prostitution. We have not fully followed the advice of the College, because we had a fundamentally different view on certain points. The Council of State has looked twice at the whole draft, which is not common in Parliament. We took our time. At that time, I made the suggestion to do so myself. The second opinion gave two criticisms. We also replied to that. Thanks to Mrs Hugon's intervention, we will evaluate Chapter II after two years of execution. The way in which we have worked has, in any case, enabled us to obtain a text of great maturity. It is, of course, right that we have taken the sexual criminal law for the reform of the Criminal Code itself. We did this because the government felt that we should respond to problems that were topical month after month. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not delay the reform of the Criminal Code. Book I and Book II are to be presented to the Council of Ministers for the summer of this year. That's about a piece of work of many hundreds, not to say thousands of pages. There will, of course, be bottlenecks and we will have to make important decisions, not only about incriminating but also about the level of punishment. Are we prepared, and do we have the courage - I look at all of you, colleagues - to reduce penalties in certain cases? Do we have the courage to say in certain cases that imprisonment can no longer be imposed? We can now boast that we will certainly be brave, until we enter into the first discussion about some kind of incriminating act. Then maybe we don't think jail time is a good idea anymore. It will therefore be a difficult but necessary debate. So we will be presenting the criminal law reform to the Council of Ministers next summer and hopefully the discussion will follow in the autumn, but perhaps it will be for 2023, reform that this legislative period will have to be completed. Mr. Geens, you spoke of the appetizer. I'm more of a dessert man myself. I don't know what the dessert will be. However, one cannot do without the other. We have already started to do this, including changes to the aggravating factors, which must be reflected in the new Criminal Code. It is true that we also need to get rid of the correction, which gives rise to improbable complexity and even anomalies, which means that a aggravated crime after correction results in lighter penalties than the basic crime. We were able to see this ourselves in the debate on voyeurism. Colleagues, I will not dwell on the clear structure of sexual criminal law. For those who haven't followed it, I won't teach, I will summarize the five basic crimes in the new sexual criminal law. These are the rape, the impairment of sexual integrity, which was previously called sexual assault on the dignity, voyeurism, the non-consensual spread of sexual content and the non-consensual spread of sexual content on purpose, malicious or for profit. To these five basic crimes we add each time aggravating circumstances, so that it becomes an aggravated crime. Then there is indeed the new element of the aggravating factors. In case of aggravating circumstances, for example, if the crime resulted in death or if there was a vulnerable situation of the victim such as pregnancy, the penalty level is one step higher. Aggravating factors, a new element in our criminal law, do not give rise to a higher level of punishment; the judge is forced to take them into account in the criminal fork between minimum and maximum sentences. That's a good thing, I think. I would like to speak on the point of incest because a lot of colleagues have referred to this problem. It is true that some organizations such as SOS Inceste have asked for years of explicit provision for incest in our Penal Code. We did. It was stipulated that as soon as a minor was involved in a family relationship, they were talking about incest. Some colleagues applauded this progress but wanted to go further. They asked to go further in the event of non-consent between adults by planning to speak of incest when there is no consent between adults in the same family. That is the explicit request of Mrs Matz, I think, and others in this room. Perhaps we misunderstood each other during the discussions in committee. You didn't say that when there is consent between these adults, you would want to incriminate him. No, you didn't say that! You said that when there is no consent between family majors, we talk about incest. Why don't we talk about incest in our text? Is it because we don't love you, Mrs. Matz? Is it because it comes from the opposition? No! You know that we have voted on a large number of amendments that you have tabled. But here, in this particular case of family majors without consent, if we talked about incest, it would become complicated. Why? Assume consented major family partners who engage in sexual acts, at that time, we are no longer talking about incest. With minors, we will always talk about incest, but with adults, it would depend on consent or non-consent. In addition, suppose ex-partners have sexual acts without consent, would at that time be talking about incest? No! We would then speak of an intrafamilial consensus niet seksuele handelingen as an alternative. With a softer. I don't know how it is in French. Beau-père? No, that can't be right, he's not a father-in-law. Is that what they say, plus parent, beau-père? In the case of a stepfather, do you spontaneously speak of incest? No. However, in the absence of consent, this would be an act of a non-consensual intrafamilial sexual nature. So I understand your request, but I fear that by introducing the term incest for this type of non-consensual relationship, there will be a lot of difficulties. Now I come to chapter 2, the decriminalization of sex work. We have had a very open debate on this. Allow me to refer to a column by Griet Vandermassen, yesterday in the good newspaper De Standaard. In her column, she mentioned sex work, and she mentioned a book that I admit I didn't read. I don't read many books. It's about the book And don't ask why journalist Hans Vandecandelaere. For months he talked to several sex workers, ranging from escorts to window prostitutes to street prostitutes. He really wanted to know that world. As the most striking conclusion in his book, he says that sex work can be dangerous, indeed trafficking in human beings exists, but the claim that 80% of sex workers are the victims of coercion has been taken from the sky. His empirical research results in 8 % of victims of forced prostitution. That is still a high number, still 8 % too much, but it is not a reason for disinformation. Therefore, the choice we make is a very conscious choice. There are countries that are quite different, such as France and Sweden. They've criminalized sex work. It's their choice. They did it on the assumption that this form of tapeloosheid would disappear. Is that so? This may have diminished. But, in fact, has that really been the case? For my part, I don't think so. We are indeed choosing a radically different path, the path of freedom and self-determination. I don't want to exaggerate, but our country is showing itself again as an ethically progressive nation. We have built up an important tradition of abortion, euthanasia and gay marriage. We have made choices that we as a country are proud of. Belgium is the first country in Europe to opt for the decriminalisation of sex work. It was the second country in the world, after New Zealand. Other countries have opted for legalisation. Someone referred to the system in Germany. We are the first country in Europe to opt for decriminalisation, that is different from legalisation. In Germany they have legalized, resulting in sex factories and brothels. That's not the choice we make. Mrs. Hugon, sex work is indeed not like other work. It's not a job that's comparable to other work. There are indeed fundamental freedoms that we do not want to renounce. However, ladies and gentlemen, we have made this choice because we want to give the sex workers recognition as a full-fledged profession, as full-fledged people. I'd like to read you a text. We do not have the tradition of allowing people who do not belong to Parliament to speak here, except in committee sessions. I would just like to read out what UTSOPI, the association of sex workers, wrote in response to the debate on and later on the vote on the draft law: 'This reform is the end result of a battle that we, sex workers, have been fighting in our country for thirty years. This fight is not just being waged here, hundreds of thousands of sex workers are fighting all over the world for what we are doing here in our country here and now. This is a reform that eliminates a counterproductive victim discourse that only stigmats sex workers and makes them dependent on others." They say, "If you want to help us, give us rights." One of the members summarized it a few years ago as follows: "If we're given more rights, we'll have more choices." That's what happened here, UTSOPI says. The founder of UTSOPI, Sonia Verstappen, said: "The reform is characterized by its pragmatism. It was not developed by a few technocrats in an office. No, we sex workers have been listened to and consulted. It's a great first. Finally, we have the feeling that we exist." Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude with the UTSOPI statement. "The fact that Belgium is the first country in Europe, and the second country in the world, where sex workers are listened to and she wants to decriminalize, is not surprising. We are an ethically progressive nation. We need ethics, not morality. Objective facts and intellectual honesty, not hysterical panic football. We hope that our example will be followed quickly, in the interests of hundreds of thousands, worldwide, suffering from stigmatisation, arbitrariness and lawlessness." Thanks to Utsopi for putting it so nicely. Colleagues, I want to finish. Some of you have asked questions, but I don't want to be too technical. Reference has been made to the comments of the OVB, which today filled half a page in Het Laatste Nieuws. In the meantime, I have seen that the OVB has published the following on its website: for the sake of clarity, Advocate.be points out that sexual offences are generally corrected, so that in these cases the penalty level imposed by the law will be less severe in practice. Madame Matz, you talked about lawyers.be and that's what they say on their site today. Mrs Bury, you spoke about the question of confiscation and discriminatory motives. Some wondered how someone could be raped because of his political or syndiculity. First of all, those drivers were introduced in 2007 and 2009. Fortunately, this was introduced a long time ago. I can imagine that there are not so many rapes because of the fact that someone has certain political or syndical beliefs. If someone is raped for the sake of their syndical or political convictions, then that is indeed an aggravating circumstance which must be punished more severely. Yeah, because we want to protect people. That's why we put that in. Making fun of it or rejecting it is leaving victims in the cold. I'm glad the OVB put that right. Mrs. De Wit, you're right about the TBS. We're gonna have to adjust that and adjust it. You have also tabled an amendment. You're a very clever lady. You're listening, too. You're adjusting. I think we will have the debate on this too. There will be changes under the new Criminal Code, but we cannot do that only for sexual offences. We have to do the same for other crimes. This must always be done in a proportionate and well thought-out way. I would like to conclude with an overview of the many scandals of sexual violence that have rolled over our country in recent years. I told you the story of the May 2015 basketball coach. In October and November 2017 there was MeToo. In November 2018, there was the problem of teenage pimps. On 4 May 2019 there was the murder of Julie Van Espen. In September 2020, there were international aid workers who asked for sex in exchange for help. On June 1, 2021, a 14-year-old girl stepped out of life because of the spread of sexual images. In October and November 2021 there were scandals in Ixelle and Ghent - Balance Ton Bar - and the testimonies about the rape drugs in Pano's reportage. In January 2022 there was the scandal of the Voice of Holland. Last month there were the stories of sexually transversal behavior in the academic world. Month after month, year after year of sexual violence. If we adopt the draft law before us today, we will do so in order to better protect the many victims in our country. That is our mission, our duty, our conviction. I would like to thank you sincerely for your commitment and the debate we have had in a serene manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u33	Minister, I have listened to you very carefully. You have dealt with a number of points very quickly, but I do not blame you. After all, it is already past midnight and we are not yet at the end of the agenda. At some point, like Mr Geens, you said that money and courage are needed. That's right, I don't argue with that. I fully agree with that. If these two things are necessary, then we must also make the right choices. Allow me to make the following comment. I have nothing against stations or trains and I have nothing against the city of Bergen, because my meteor child and very dear family live there. However, when I find that for the construction of the Bergen station, not the originally estimated EUR 30 million or the EUR 324 million mentioned by None, whereas we can barely renovate our prison cells and certainly not build new cells, my stomach turns around, Minister. Yeah, it takes money, yeah, it takes courage. The right choices are needed and they are not always made. First we got rid of prison cells and then we rented them again. The fact that this creates an ongoing account is another discussion. Those are also wrong choices. You also argue, Minister, that sexual criminal law should be renewed, because it had become an old coffin and was worn out, and that you have built a new house. I agree with you that sexual criminal law should and should be modernised. That's what I said. I also think it is obvious that this is happening. Because of certain pre-takes, where you have not been consistent, you have dealt with one; you have not - you yourself have added barnyards; I am referring, among other things, to the fact that the aggravating factors apply only to sexual offences. Worse still, you risk having made an empty barn by making decisions on prostitution in this text, regardless of the fact that the demands in this respect are justified. After all, according to the Attorney General, the subject was better dealt with together with the subject of trafficking in human beings, because it is no longer feasible. I hope the Attorney General is wrong and you're right. However, I am afraid of it. You may even have literally made an empty barn, Minister. We need to discuss whether and when punishment makes sense. We're sometimes accused of trying to put everyone in jail. No, there has to be an appropriate punishment. I have never contradicted this and will not do so, but I do not think it is correct for all the facts, not only for sexually-tuned facts, but for all the facts. It is very convenient for you that the threshold should fall, because that debate will then be over. We must have the debate on this, but not on the basis of this draft. This issue needs to be discussed in another debate. I've heard a lot of interesting things from you, and I follow you on a lot of points. I also heard you say very convincingly interesting things about the posting not so long ago on the occasion of little Dean's case. Now you just slide it aside. That raises questions for me about everything you have said before and which I think is perhaps right. After all, I had aligned myself on your line, a bar that could go higher for me, while we wouldn't even go under bar together anymore, because you just slide it aside. I would like to listen to your sensible and beautiful words, but what are they all worth if the action is not followed and that amendment is not adopted today? If you can do that for one thing, then you can do the same for the other. That's consistent. You need courage for that, too. If you do not take that courage, all those fine and correct words are worth far less to me, and that is a great pity, especially for such an important subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u34	Madam Chair, I thank the Minister for his answers. He said the College of Attorneys General took an option. The College of Attorneys General does not take an option. It is you, Minister, who are taking political options! He tells us that the political option you have chosen is bad for the protection of victims. It's not an option! He says legally that he will not be able to prosecute or, in any case, that he will do so in a much more complicated way. In addition, to mean the figures you give, saying that there is only 8% exploitation in prostitution, 8% exploitation or trafficking in human beings, in my opinion we do not live on the same planet! All the associations that came to the commission said that it was more like 80% exploitation and 20% consenting people. It's not the same thing at all! I understand that if you were given these figures, you would legislate that way. But the numbers aren't those. The United Nations estimates that 85 to 90 per cent of the world's operations are under way. I do not see why Belgium would be an exception. What I don't like so much is that through the message you just delivered, you tell people that they will have a status. However, we know that nothing is regulated under the Penal Code. Nothing's settled! These people will have no status because today we are voting for this text. And if this text is adopted today, other people who are victims will tomorrow be much more exploited because they will not be able to get their hands on their pimps. That is what we are doing today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u35	Madam President, Minister, I do not think I have received an answer to my question on confiscation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u36	Mrs Bury, it is about the extended confiscation. You are an excellent Member of Parliament, but that too is the adoption of an existing article, namely Article 382b of the Criminal Code. It already exists, the extended confiscation is not a new technique. Moreover, an owner who has no knowledge of this can perfectly oppose the seizure of the property before the court. The OVB says today in a statement, it's on the website, that the possibility for the court to confiscate is an element that in itself is not new. In other words, it is not the case that we are suddenly introducing this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u37	Then how is that person aware of that court procedure if he doesn't know that? He owns that place but has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u38	He's perfectly capable of resisting. That's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u39	He's aware of the procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u40	The extended confiscation is a well-known system. It is perfectly possible for the owner to oppose it. That's what's gonna happen, by the way. We are now making a little misfit, but that is a technique which has existed for a long time and which we have just applied here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u41	Minister, I listened carefully to you and I heard you say that you were in favour of legal aid to victims. This is very good because I have tabled an amendment to that effect. I therefore hope that you will encourage your majority to support it because it corresponds exactly to what you have defended.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u42	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u43	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2141/18) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2141/18) The bill has 118 articles, as well as tables in the annex. The draft law contains 118 articles as well as tables in annex.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u44	• 150 – Sophie Rohonyi (2141/19)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u45	• 148 "Vanessa Matz" (2141/19)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u46	• 143 Spohie De Wit (2141/19)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u47	At the request of the Vlaams Belang Group, the vote on Articles 48, 74, 84, 86, 87, 88 and 114 and the vote on the whole will take place at a later stage: the vote on the amendments and articles reserved, the vote on Articles 48, 74, 84, 86, 87, 88 and 114 and the vote on the whole. The vote on the amendments and articles in question will take place at a later date, at the request of the Vlaams Belangroep, at the request of the Vlaams Belangroep, the split vote on Rules 48, 74, 84, 86, 87, 88 and 114 and the vote on the whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u48	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open The rapporteur, Mrs Van Bossuyt, refers to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u49	Madam President, I refer to the written report. I would like to speak on behalf of my group. It's already Friday so I'll be brief. We have already had an extensive discussion on this in committee. A positive element in what is ahead is the fact that the legal guarantee period remains two years. We know the extension was on the table. We are therefore pleased that the deadline has lasted for two years, especially since this is also the case in most other European Member States. It is also true that in Belgium we know the regulation of the hidden defects. This allows consumers to benefit from a recovery up to 10 years after the purchase. It is also a good thing that this arrangement remains in place. However, there is one element with which we, as a group, have a very difficult time. I made that clear in committee too. The deadline for reversing the burden of proof was six months until recently. The directive proposed to double it and thus extend it to one year. This government has chosen to quadruple it and therefore extend it to two years. In our view, this is not proportionate at all. One will only be a seller who must be able to prove that the defect of the product is due to a misuse by the consumer up to two years after the purchase of a product. In our view, this places a huge burden on companies. Moreover, the additional protection offered by this longer term is limited to consumers. Research shows that most of the defects, namely 82%, occur in the first year after purchase. If, therefore, the deadline for reversing the burden of proof had already doubled to one year, the majority of cases could already be resolved. Will this government also do gold-plating, Madam Secretary of State? I have questioned you on several occasions, and you have consistently maintained that you would not do so. However, we have a good example of gold-plating here, which is absolutely not in the interests of our companies. I am sure you know that very well. We had already tabled a number of amendments in committee, including to reduce the reversal of the burden of proof from two to one year, which is already a doubling of what exists today. We will retable that amendment in plenary in order to restore the balance between consumer protection and the administrative burden on businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u50	Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group, I welcome this bill on legal guarantees, as it will encourage a longer durability of products and combat planned obsolescence. It will also have a positive impact on the consumer portfolio, which is a good thing. In particular, I am referring to the provisions allowing consumers to use the legal guarantee they enjoy on the goods purchased, whereas the consumer currently benefits from a reversal of the six-month burden of proof, a point on which we did not agree with the N-VA. However, it is known and has been demonstrated during the hearings that it is extremely difficult for the consumer to assert the burden of proof beyond this six-month period. With the project presented today, the period during which consumers benefit from this reversal of the burden of proof will increase from six months to two years. We find that this is in the right direction, contrary to what the N-VA thinks. This quadrupled time frame will improve the quality and durability of products on the market and ultimately the purchasing power since a defective product will no longer have to be purchased after one year of use. Belgium on this point is willing as it has decided on a maximum level of protection within the framework of what is set by Europe. This bill will significantly improve consumer protection. This can encourage manufacturers to achieve longer product durability, which is why we are pleased to have quadrupled this deadline. This will also have a positive impact on both the portfolio and the environment. We will therefore be very enthusiastic about this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, an important part of this draft law concerns the extension of the guarantee periods. Extending the guarantee periods is a good thing for the consumer. The hearings on this bill, which were organised in committee, showed that the extension of the guarantee periods would have a limited impact on sales prices. If we get products that last longer, this will result in less waste. This is better for the environment and ultimately better for consumers. However, we have raised a number of concerns about a number of issues in this draft law. A first concern is that of the different deadlines used. The time limit for liability is two years. The burden of proof rests on the trader, including for two years. On the other hand, however, there is a two-month obligation to notify in the event of a failure. Consumers who are therefore not in a position to report a defect within two months are, as it were, losing their right to guarantee. Consumers who regularly use a particular product or device will not be affected by this, as they will of course want to have it repaired quickly. However, if a consumer makes less frequent use of an appliance, or is unable to offer it for repair within two months or to report the defect, due to a case of force majeure for example, that consumer has a problem, even if the good is still well within the warranty period. In order to provide a solution to this problem, I tabled an amendment on behalf of the Vlaams Belangroep with the aim of aligning the time limit within which a defect must be reported with the guarantee period. However, that amendment did not find a majority in committee. My fellow Members will be given a new opportunity, as we have retabled our amendment in this plenary session. I would also like to draw attention once again to Article 11, in particular the new Chapter 6, § 3, points 1 and 2. I quote: "The trader waives the use of content other than personal data that was provided or created by the consumer in the use of the digital content or service provided by the trader, except where that content, first, is of no use outside the context of the digital content or service provided by the trader, and secondly, if that content relates only to the consumer's activity in the use of the digital content or digital service provided by the trader." Therefore, if the content provided or created by the consumer other than personal data is of no use to that trader, for example, photographs or videos uploaded by the consumer or whatever, the trader may use it. This may also be done if the other content relates only to the activity of the consumer. For our group, this is contrary to the spirit of this bill. In our view, the consumer should always have the right to have personal data and content deleted. Whether or not content is useful outside the context of the digital content or digital service provided by the trader is also determined unilaterally by the trader, which makes it questionable. That is why we tabled an amendment in committee to delete paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 11 under the new Chapter 6, § 3. That amendment was not supported either. We shall retable it in this plenary to vote on it. So you will also have a second chance for this amendment. In committee, our group abstained from Rules 5 and 11 for the reasons given. However, we have fully supported it and will do so today in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u52	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already said in committee, I am glad that we are dealing with the issue of legal guarantees in this Parliament. This is an opportunity to talk about the sustainability of goods and the planned obsolescence. I have heard all too often in this House calling on the individual responsibility of the consumer to change production. However, it is production that determines consumption and not the other way round. During the hearings, the consumer advocacy association, Test Achats, defended an extension of the legal guarantee from two to three years. KUL professor Evelyne Terryn stressed that this would be a missed opportunity for the durability of objects, if this guarantee were not extended. The two-year guarantee as it exists today was laid down by a 1999 directive which was transposed in 2004. After almost 20 years, we could be a little more daring to produce more sustainable goods. Moreover, the European directive allows us to put in place more ambitious legislation. With the amendment we have tabled, we do not ask for a guarantee of twenty or ten years, we propose that the guarantee be extended to three years, as has already been the case in Sweden for several years. We need to draw on the good examples in Europe to get us up. I will conclude my speech by speaking directly to you, Madam Secretary of State. I know that you will retort that you have increased the burden of proof in favour of the consumer, with this bill. In fact, my group supports this measure. But why haven't you been more ambitious about the duration of the legal guarantee? Would this not be a good measure both for consumers and for the environment, knowing that the repair industry would be favoured? I therefore submit to you this amendment, which is the result of the suggestions made during the hearings by Test Achats and Professor Evelyne Terryn, which aims to extend the legal guarantee to three years.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u53	Madam President, we have already discussed this bill extensively in committee. There was general satisfaction with the conversion of the guarantee line. This is undoubtedly linked to the fact that the provisions of this bill really ensure that the consumer is better protected, that his rights are extended and that enforcement of these rights is made more possible by, among other things, the Economic Inspectorate. Mr Gilissen tabled an amendment on the obligation to notify within two months as provided for in Article 5.4 of the draft law. The consumer and the seller may now provide for a period of notice. Where appropriate, they shall not be less than 2 months from the date of detection of the defect. It also discussed the extensive reversibility of the burden of proof from 6 months to 2 years. Consumers do not always have the know-how to explain why the product is no longer satisfactory. In this way it is possible to extend the two-year guarantee period to two years in reality. Otherwise, it is in fact limited to 6 months, precisely because in the other case the consumer cannot always explain why the product is no longer working. As an alternative to extending the guarantee period for certain goods to more than 2 years, the Government considered it preferable to align that period of reversal of the burden of proof with the guarantee period. The guarantee period was not therefore extended, but rather the piece of the reversibility of the burden of proof. In general, this is a nicely balanced bill. I ask the Members of Parliament to support this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u54	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u55	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2355/11) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2355/11) The title has been amended by the commission into "Bill amending the provisions of the former Civil Code relating to sales to consumers, inserting a new title VIbis in Book III of the former Civil Code and amending the Code of Economic Law". The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law amending the provisions of the old Civil Code with regard to sales to consumers, introducing a new title VIbis in book III of the old Civil Code and amending the Code of Economic Law." The bill has 26 articles. The draft law has 26 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u56	• 24 • Erik Gilissen (2355/12)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u57	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles reserved as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u58	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Emmanuel Burton, Vincent Scourneau, Kattrin Jadin, Marianne Verhaert, Jef Van den Bergh, Nicolas Parent, Kim Buyst.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u59	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1848/4) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1848/4) The title in French was amended by the committee in "proposal for a resolution to include the definition of automated vehicles in the Road Traffic Code, the continuation of tests on automated vehicles in Belgium, the evaluation of road and motorway infrastructure, and the potential positive and/or negative effects of automated vehicles on the environmental performance of road transport in Belgium". Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in "proposal for a resolution to include the definition of automated vehicles in the Road Code, the continuation of tests on automated vehicles in Belgium, the evaluation of road and motorway infrastructure, as well as the potential positive and/or negative effects of automated vehicles on the environmental performance of road transport in Belgium". The discussion is open. The meeting's open. Mrs Kim Buyst, rapporteur, and Mrs Maria Vindevoghel, rapporteur, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u60	Madam President, given the time, I will be brief. Ladies and gentlemen, I encourage you to support this excellent text.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u61	Madam President, I will be relatively brief as well, while addressing a few points. Colleagues, the issue of autonomous vehicles and the mobility of the future are at the heart of the concerns of the government agreement. I am not going to take back what it contains; you know it by heart. The MR therefore drafted, a few months ago, a motion for a resolution in order to prepare in the best conditions the Regions of our country, all three competent with regard to intelligent vehicles, to prepare for the safe deployment of these vehicles on our roads. Of course, the stakes are significant, including barriers to infrastructure and legislation. There is also the question of ethics because, somewhere, one delegates one's responsibility and life to the vehicle. On the other hand, it is estimated that autonomous level 5 vehicles, i.e. fully autonomous vehicles, will not be introduced into the Belgian market until 2030. This resolution is a cornerstone of this building, knowing full well that the European and national framework will have to evolve in the coming years. As a reminder, my party wanted to introduce a precise definition of an automated vehicle in the Royal Decree of 1 December 1975, the Road Traffic Code. He also wanted to define a national strategy in consultation with the Regions on the continuation of automated vehicle testing, including human, infrastructure, technological and environmental aspects. We have requested and received a number of opinions. I am saving you the reading of these opinions and of the persons and institutions to which they have been requested. I would like to thank Mr Jef Van den Bergh of the CD&V and Mr Nicolas Parent of Ecolo-Groen, who were able to bring a number of elements in order to enrich the text and all the Members who were willing to support this resolution. I thank them already for their support during this plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u62	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u63	The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u64	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open The rapporteur, Mrs Lanjri, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u65	Madam President, we will abstain on this issue because of the way in which the decision on the postponement of the medical elections was not only taken, but then announced, without prior consultation other than informal consultation, with a change in the rules along the way, which raises questions as to the real reasons why this change occurred a few months before the scheduled date of the elections. For all these reasons and for the persistent questions that they cause, we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u66	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u67	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2485/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2485/3) The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u68	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u69	The Chamber must appoint the Registrar of the Dutch Chamber of the Court of Auditors. The Chamber should appoint the Registrar of the Dutch Chamber of Auditors. Nominations were announced in plenary on 13 January 2022. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 13 January 2022. The Sub-Committee on the Court of Auditors heard all the candidates on 23 February 2022. The rapporteur, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, reported on these hearings at the Conference of Presidents on 9 March 2022. The Sub-Committee "Rekenhof' heard all candidates on 23 February 2022. The rapporteur, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, reported on this hearing at the Conference of Presidents of 9 March 2022. The document bearing the names of the candidates has been distributed to you. (2559/1) The document containing the names of the candidates was distributed. (2559/1) Ballot papers have already been distributed. The ballots have already been distributed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. As the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. A vote should be taken by drawing a cross in the box opposite the name of the selected candidate. The votes cast in favour of more than one candidate are void. To vote, one must place a cross in the box next to the name of the chosen candidate. The votes cast on more than one candidate shall be invalid. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. Ms. Nawal Farih and Ms. Chanelle Bonaventure are appointed to strip the ballots. Mrs Nawal Farih and Mrs Chanelle Bonaventure are appointed to record the votes. I propose that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in Room 3, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. I suggest that the ballots be counted in Room 3, in the presence of the voters. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. Upon the call of his or her name, each member is requested to submit his or her unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum from my left to my right. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call. I invite the voters from the names to call. Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? Did everyone vote? I declare the ballot closed. The vote is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u70	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Sofie Merckx, Thierry Warmoes, Nadia Moscufo, Raoul Hedebouw, Peter Mertens. The Committee on Health and Consumer Protection E This proposal for a resolution is proposed to be rejected by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. (1967/2) The Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities proposes that this motion for a resolution be rejected. (1967)/2 In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteurs, Mrs Vanpeborgh and Mrs Jiroflée, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since the outbreak of the covid pandemic, six million people have officially died of COVID-19. While the vaccination rate in Belgium is close to 80%, the vaccination rate in poor countries is between 5% and 10%. Of the 11 billion vaccines produced, three out of four went to the rich countries. That is because the vaccines are in the possession of Big Pharma and they have a monopoly on them. They make 1,000 euros per second and recently raised the price of their vaccines by 62%. The fact that this is still possible today is the result of the political decision that Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna should have that monopoly and that they should not share that knowledge with the whole world. What is going on is not only morally reprehensible, it is also nonsense from a health point of view. The pandemic prevailed worldwide and as long as not everyone is protected, she can always come back. We are putting booster shots here while care workers in the poor countries have not been vaccinated. In recent months, therefore, there have been more and more people calling for the TRIPS waiver to be supported and for the patents to be lifted. Resolutions were adopted in the European Parliament and in various national parliaments. Civil society and many respected experts and former Heads of State, the World Health Organisation, 11.11.11 and even 63% of the Belgian population believe that patents should be lifted. There was also a lot of political support at home, not only from the opposition, such as the PVDA, but also within the Vivaldi government. The Vivaldi government is composed of seven parties. In recent months Ecolo/Groen has said, even recently during the vote, that they are actually inclined to support those TRIPS waivers. The PS and Vooruit have also clearly expressed their support for this. At CD&V, Joachim Coens already tweeted a few months ago that it was time to lift the patents. Even at Open VLD we heard voices in that direction. I think about Gwendolyn Rutten and Guy Verhofstadt. If it comes to it, Big Pharma's lobby wins anyway. So far, you can't get it over your heart to support that logical decision, to support the call from all those people around the world, who could ensure that we can effectively give everyone access to the vaccines. Colleagues, a small compromise was reached yesterday. We have to be careful, there's nothing on paper yet. There would be some kind of compromise, a possible agreement between the US, the EU, South Africa and India. If there is any movement today, it is of course due to the movement that stands up for the lifting of patents. This is therefore not directly proof that those who claim that intellectual property rights are not an obstacle to the roll-out of vaccination throughout the world are a problem. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not too late and it is still necessary to support the TRIPS waiver, not only for our own future, because we do not know whether there will be any new variants, but also to put an end to the injustice of vaccination inequalities in the world. I know that many colleagues actually support our proposal, so follow your heart and support the call for the waiver of patents.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u72	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u73	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (Art. 75, n° 5, Rgt) If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. (art. 75, nr. 5, Rgt) No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u74	Now that we are no longer voting remotely, I would remind you of the provision of Rule 61(3) of our Rules of Procedure. Members who, after the close of the vote, declare that they were wrong or did not vote must report it immediately after the vote. This observation will be reflected in the full report, but will not change the result of the electronic vote. Now that we are no longer voting at a distance, I would remind you of the provision of Article 61. 3 of our Rules of Procedure. Members who declare that they were wrong or did not vote by mistake after a vote have to report this immediately after the vote. That remark is included in the integrated report, but it does not change the outcome of the electronic vote. I therefore invite you to pay attention to the vote. I therefore call on you to pay attention to the votes. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u75	Madam President, we have received a number of questions for voting arrangements. Our rule is that when it comes to illness or duties, we accept it. Tomas Roggman has a voice appointment with Leen Dierick from CD&V. Mr Anseeeuw has a vote with Mrs Lanjri of CD&V. Mr Loones has a vote with Mr Leysen van Open Vld. Mrs Van Bossuyt has a vote with Mrs Verhelst from Open Vld. Mr Van der Donkt has a vote with Mr Piedboeuf of the MR. We have made a division, because there is hardly anyone left in our group. You should not think in the vote that I am the only one in our group with an opinion. I also believe that Mrs Houtmeyers has a vote with Mrs Cornet. Mrs Van Vaerenbergh has a vote with Mr Moutquin.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u76	Madam President, in order to clarify things before the vote, in the wake of what has just been announced, I have agreed for health reasons to pair up with my colleague, Servais Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u77	Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u78	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Justice Committee on 9 March 2022. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission of 9 March 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 265/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Marijke Dillen; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 265/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Marijke Dillen; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u79	Madam President, the Flemish interest has always been in favour of a lick-on-piece policy, but we are asking ourselves some very serious questions about the content of the famous COL. 09/2021 and also about its feasibility. The introduction of this COL should ensure that all offences falling within the scope of the redirection letter are the subject of an immediate friendly settlement which should also be paid immediately. If that does not happen, the crime must be prosecuted effectively. We also have serious questions about a number of crimes included in it. I am thinking, for example, of possession of certain weapons, possession of certain quantities of drugs and sanctions for stealing an electric bicycle. The problem of recidivism is also not addressed by COL. That is why we ask the government to ensure that there are sufficient resources and magistrates, both at the level of the prosecutors and at the level of the courts, so that all unpaid friendly settlements will actually be prosecuted and punished. We also call for the provisions relating to possession of drugs and weapons to be removed from the letter and for the provisions on penalties for theft of bicycles to be amended so that the penalty is at least double the value of the stolen goods. It is also very important for the government to take immediate action on a return letter and, finally, we call for consultation with the Communities to ensure that a strong policy on minors is also developed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u80	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u81	Yes 75 Yes No. 34 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total [[115]] Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u82	Stemming over considerans D. (2579/2) Vote on recital D. (2579/2) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u83	Yes [[115]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 115 Total Consequently, recital D of the Rules of Procedure is adopted. Accordingly, the Board adopted recital D. Stemming over considerans E. (2579/2) Vote on recital E. (2579/2) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u84	Consequently, the Court adopts recital E. Accordingly, the Board adopted recital E. Stemming over considerans S. (2579/2) Vote on recital S (2579/2) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u85	Consequently, the Court of First Instance adopted recital S. Accordingly, the Board adopted recital S. Stemming over considerans V. (2579/2) Vote on recital V. (2579/2) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u86	Yes 98 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 114 Total Consequently, the Court adopts recital V. Accordingly, the Board adopted recital V. Vote on Amendment No 1 by Georges Dallemagne cs to insert recital KK(n). (2579/3) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Georges Dallemagne cs to insert a recital KK(n). (2579/3) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u87	Yes 30 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 115 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Georges Dallemagne cs to insert recital LL(n). (2579/3) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Georges Dallemagne cs to insert a recital LL(n). (2579/3) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u88	Yes 6 Yes No. 93 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 113 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Georges Dallemagne cs to insert recital MM(n). (2579/3) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Georges Dallemagne cs to insert a recital MM(n). (2579/3) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u89	Yes 6 Yes No. 99 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 113 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u90	Vote on Amendment No 7 by Georges Dallemagne cs to insert recital NN(n). (2579/3) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Georges Dallemagne cs to insert a recital NN(n). (2579/3) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u91	Yes 6 Yes No. 94 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 115 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Georges Dallemagne cs to insert recital OO(n). (2579/3) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Georges Dallemagne cs to insert a recital OO(n). (2579/3) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u92	Yes 6 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 31 Abstensions Total 115 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Georges Dallemagne cs to insert recital PP (n). (2579/3) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Georges Dallemagne cs to insert a recital PP(n). (2579/3) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u93	Yes 6 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 31 Abstensions Total 115 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on point I.1. (2579/2) Vote on item I.1. (2579/2) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u94	Yes [[114]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 114 Total Consequently, the Court adopts point I.1. Accordingly, the Board adopted item I.1. Vote on point I.2. (2579/2) Vote on item I.2. (2579/2) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u95	Consequently, the Court adopts paragraph I.2. Accordingly, the Board adopted item I.2. Vote on point I.5. (2579/2) Vote on item I.5. (2579/2) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u96	Consequently, the Court adopts paragraph I.5. Accordingly, the Board adopted item I.5. Vote on Amendment No 3 from Georges Dallemagne cs to insert point I.7(n). (2579/3) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Georges Dallemagne cs to insert a point I.7(n). (2579/3) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u97	Yes 30 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 115 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on point II.1. (2579/2) Vote on item II.1. (2579/2) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u98	Yes [[115]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 115 Total Consequently, the Court adopts point II.1. Accordingly, the Board adopted item II.1. Vote on point III.1. (2579/2) Vote on item III.1. (2579/2) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u99	Consequently, the Court adopts point III.1. Accordingly, the Board adopted item III.1. Vote on point III.2. (2579/2) Vote on point III.2. (2579/2) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u100	Consequently, the Court adopts point III.2. Accordingly, the Board adopted item III.2. Vote on point III.3. (2579/2) Vote on item III.3. (2579/2) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u101	Consequently, the Court adopts point III.3. Accordingly, the Board adopted item III.3. Vote on Amendment No 11 by Georges Dallemagne cs at paragraph IV.3. (2579/3) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Georges Dallemagne cs in point IV.3. (2579/3) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u102	Yes 6 Yes No. 107 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 114 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on point IV.4. (2579/2) Vote on item IV.4. (2579/2) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u103	Yes [[115]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 115 Total Consequently, the Court adopts paragraph IV.4. Accordingly, the Board adopted item IV.4. Vote on point IV.5. (2579/2) Vote on item IV.5. (2579/2) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u104	Yes 112 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 112 Total Consequently, the Court adopts paragraph IV.5. Accordingly, the Board adopted item IV.5. Vote on point IV.6. (2579/2) Vote on point IV.6. (2579/2) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u105	Consequently, the Court adopts paragraph IV.6. Accordingly, the Board adopted item IV.6.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u106	Vote on Amendment No 2 from Georges Dallemagne cs to insert point IV.6/1(n). (2579/3) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Georges Dallemagne cs to insert a point IV.6/1(n). (2579/3) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u107	Yes 31 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 115 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 16 from Nabil Boukili to point IV.8. (2579/3) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Nabil Boukili in point IV.8. (2579/3) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u108	Yes [[10]] Yes No. 89 No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 115 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on point IV.10. (2579/2) Vote on point IV.10. (2579/2) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u109	Yes [[114]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 114 Total Consequently, the Court adopts point IV.10. Accordingly, the Board adopted item IV.10. Vote on Amendment No 4 from Georges Dallemagne cs to insert point IV.10/1(n). (2579/3) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Georges Dallemagne cs to insert a point IV.10/1(n). (2579/3) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u110	Yes 30 Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 114 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 9 from Georges Dallemagne cs to insert point IV. 10/ 10(n). (2579/3) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Georges Dallemagne cs to insert a point IV.10/2(n). (2579/3) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u111	Yes 6 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 31 Abstensions Total 115 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on point IV.11. (2579/2) Vote on point IV.11. (2579/2) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u112	Yes [[113]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 113 Total Consequently, the Court adopts point IV.11. Accordingly, the Board adopted item IV.11. Vote on point IV.12. (2579/2) Vote on point IV.12. (2579/2) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u113	Yes 98 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 114 Total Consequently, the Court adopts point IV.12. Accordingly, the Board adopted item IV.12. Vote on point IV.17. (2579/2) Vote on item IV.17. (2579/2) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u114	Yes [[115]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 115 Total Consequently, the Court adopts paragraph IV.17. Accordingly, the Board adopted item IV.17. Vote on Amendment No 12 by Nabil Boukili at point IV.18. (2579/3) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Nabil Boukili in point IV.18. (2579/3) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u115	Yes [[26]] Yes No. 89 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 115 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on point IV.18. (2579/2) Vote on item IV.18. (2579/2) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u116	Yes [[115]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 115 Total Consequently, the Court adopts paragraph IV.18. Accordingly, the Board adopted item IV.18. Vote on point IV.20. (2579/2) Vote on item IV.20. (2579/2) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u117	Consequently, the Court adopts paragraph IV.20. Accordingly, the Board adopted item IV.20. Vote on Amendment No 13 by Nabil Boukili to insert point IV.25(n). (2579/3) Vote on Amendment No. 13 by de Nabil Boukili to insert a point IV.25(n). (2579/3) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u118	Yes [[10]] Yes No. 105 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 115 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 14 by Nabil Boukili to insert point IV.26(n). (2579/3) Vote on Amendment No. 14 by de Nabil Boukili to insert a point IV.26(n). (2579/3) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u119	Yes [[26]] Yes No. 89 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 115 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 15 from Nabil Boukili to insert point IV.27(n). (2579/3) Vote on Amendment No. 15 by de Nabil Boukili to insert a point IV.27(n). (2579/3) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u120	Yes [[10]] Yes No. 87 No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 113 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u121	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u122	Yes 105 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total [[115]] Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u123	Vote on Amendment No 144 by Nabil Boukili to Article 5. (2141/19) Vote on Amendment No 144 by Nabil Boukili on Article 5. (2141/19) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u124	Yes [[26]] Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total [[115]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 149 by Sophie Rohonyi to Article 6. (2141/19) Vote on Amendment No 149 by Sophie Rohonyi on Article 6. (2141/19) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u125	Yes 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes No. 87 No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total [[113]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 150 by Sophie Rohonyi to Article 10. (2141/19) Vote on Amendment No 150 by Sophie Rohonyi on article 10. (2141/19) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u126	Yes 32 Yes No. 68 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total [[115]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 151 by Sophie Rohonyi to Article 20. (2141/19) Vote on Amendment No 151 by Sophie Rohonyi on Article 20. (2141/19) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u127	Yes 6 Yes No. 67 No Abstentions 41 Abstensions Total [[114]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 20 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 20 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 152 by Sophie Rohonyi to delete Article 21. (2141/19) Vote on Amendment No 152 from Sophie Rohonyi to the omission of Article 21. (2141/19) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u128	Yes 6 Yes No. 68 No Abstentions 41 Abstensions Total [[115]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 147 by Vanessa Matz to Article 21. (2141/19) Vote on Amendment No 147 by Vanessa Matz on Article 21. (2141/19) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u129	Yes 6 Yes No. 67 No Abstentions 41 Abstensions Total [[114]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 21 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 21 was adopted. Vote on Rule 48. (2141/18) Vote on Rule 48. (2141/18) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u130	Yes [[84]] Yes No. [[25]] No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total [[115]] Total Accordingly, article 48 was adopted. Consequently, Article 48 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u131	Vote on Amendment No 146 by Nabil Boukili to Rule 74. (2141/19) Vote on Amendment No 146 by Nabil Boukili on Article 74. (2141/19) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u132	Yes [[40]] Yes No. 68 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total [[115]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 153 by Sophie Rohonyi to Rule 74. (2141/19) Vote on Amendment No 153 by Sophie Rohonyi on article 74. (2141/19) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u133	Yes [[40]] Yes No. 68 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total [[115]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 74. (2141/18) Vote on Rule 74. (2141/18) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u134	Yes 99 Yes No. [[16]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[115]] Total Accordingly, article 74 was adopted. As a result, Article 74 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 148 by Vanessa Matz to delete Articles 75 to 83. (2141/19) Vote on Amendment No 148 from Vanessa Matz to the exclusion of Articles 75 to 83. (2141/19) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u135	Yes [[22]] Yes No. 70 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total [[115]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Articles 75 to 83 were adopted. The amendment was therefore rejected and Articles 75 to 83 were adopted. Vote on Rule 84. (2141/18) Vote on Rule 84. (2141/18) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u136	Yes 98 Yes No. [[16]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[114]] Total Accordingly, article 84 was adopted. As a result, Article 84 has been adopted. Vote on Amendment No 143 by Sophie De Wit to Rule 85. (2141/19) Vote on Amendment No 143 by Sophie De Wit on article 85. (2141/19) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u137	Yes 24 Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total [[114]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 85 was adopted. The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 85 was adopted. Vote on Rule 86. (2141/18) Vote on Rule 86. (2141/18) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u138	Yes 83 Yes No. 24 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total [[114]] Total Accordingly, article 86 was adopted. Consequently, Article 86 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u139	Vote on Rule 87. (2141/18) Vote on Rule 87. (2141/18) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u140	Accordingly, article 87 was adopted. Consequently, Article 87 has been adopted. Vote on Rule 88. (2141/18) Vote on Rule 88. (2141/18) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u141	Accordingly, article 88 was adopted. Consequently, Article 88 was adopted. Vote on amendment No. 145 by Nabil Boukili to insert an article 102/1(n). (2141/19) Vote on Amendment No 145 by Nabil Boukili to insert an article 102/1(n). (2141/19) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u142	Yes [[28]] Yes No. 71 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total [[113]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u143	Vote on Rule 114. (2141/18) Vote on Rule 114. (2141/18) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u144	Yes 70 Yes No. 23 No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total [[115]] Total Accordingly, article 114 was adopted. Consequently, Article 114 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u145	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u146	Yes 70 Yes No. 4 No Abstentions 41 Abstensions Total [[115]] Total As a result, the House adopted the bill, as well as the attached tables. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2141/20) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law as well as the tables in the annex. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2141/20) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u147	Vote on Amendment No 27 by Roberto D'Amico on Article 5. (2355/12) Vote on Amendment No 27 by Roberto D'Amico to Article 5. (2355/12) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u148	Yes [[16]] Yes No. 97 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 114 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 24 by Erik Gilissen on Article 5. (2355/12) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Erik Gilissen to Article 5. (2355/12) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u149	Yes [[16]] Yes No. 95 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 111 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u150	Vote on Amendment No 26 by Anneleen Van Bossuyt cs on article 5. (2355/12) Vote on Amendment No 26 by Anneleen Van Bossuyt cs to Article 5. (2355/12) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u151	Yes [[8]] Yes No. 98 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 113 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u152	Vote on Amendment No 25 by Erik Gilissen on Article 11. (2355/12) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Erik Gilissen to Article 11. (2355/12) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u153	Yes [[16]] Yes No. [[85]] No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 115 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u154	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u155	Yes 100 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 114 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u156	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u157	Yes [[115]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 115 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u158	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u159	Yes 110 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 115 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u160	Voters [[113]] Stemmen White or invalid 5 Blank or invalid Valid 108 Geldig Absolute majority 55 Perfect majority Mme Tine Debusschere a obtenu 105 voix. Mrs Tine Debusschere has received 105 votes. M. Jasper De Jonge a obtenu 3 voix. Mr Jasper De Jonge received three votes. Mrs Veerle Straetemans obtained 0 votes. Mrs Veerle Straetemans received 0 votes. Mr. Jan Van Cappelle obtained 0 votes. Mr Jan Van Cappel received 0 votes. Ms Tine Debusschere, having obtained 105 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, was appointed Registrar of the Court of Auditors (Netherlands Chamber). Since Mrs Tine Debusschere received 105 votes, this is the absolute majority, she was appointed Registrar in the Court of Auditors (Netherlands Chamber).
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u161	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u162	Yes 78 Yes No. [[10]] No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 111 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 1967/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 1967/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip170x.u163	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, March 24, 2022, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 24 March 2022 at 2.15 p.m.
