ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u1	Minister, I wish you all the best, as well as to colleagues in the room or behind their screens, and to the House teams.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u2	Madam Secretary, you were on a mission in Congo at the end of November. Your visit was marked by gender inequality and the fight against sexual violence. This issue should always and everywhere be our priority and is all the more important in war and crisis. This is also the case in East Congo, where a war rages and rape is used as a weapon of war. You visited the Panzi Hospital in Bukavu of Nobel Prize winner Mukwege, where tens of thousands of women who have been victims of sexual violence have been treated since 2000. You will support the further digitisation of the hospital, including the digitisation of testimonies of sexual violence. You announced in Nsele, a neighborhood near Kinshasa, the creation of a children's fund, together with UNICEF, in order to be able to provide stable support for children in their first years of life. 90,000 children under the age of 5 live in that district. Can you explain more about your mission to Congo and the initiatives you will take more specifically in the fight against sexual violence? Could you give us a little more information on the children's fund? How many families will it be used for, who will be eligible and will also be used for, for example, better access to health care? Will the project be extended after a possible positive evaluation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to express my best wishes for the new year and good health. Mrs Jadin is not here, but I will also answer her questions. Then she can read it in the report. During this work mission, I met Congolese women, girls and men who were subjected to violence. On the other hand, the majority of the persons concerned are women and girls. I've been deeply touched by what they've been through. It is not normal that they are currently subjected to violence all over the world because they are women. I am very impressed by the strength and courage of the Congolese women and their will to move forward. Among other things, I met activists who fight against gender-based violence every day, sometimes with very little resources. Although progress has been made, there is still a long way to go. The covid pandemic has amplified the phenomena of domestic violence. Access to support services continues to be a challenge. Some traditions and customs are harmful. The lack of access to justice and reparation is one of the most acute problems, thus perpetuating the impunity of perpetrators. My policy therefore focuses on the following axes. First of all, the problem of gender inequality must be taken into account, as it is the main cause of violence. This is done in a transversal way in all development cooperation programmes. Secondly, concrete medical, psychological and legal care must be provided to women who have been victims of violence. Sometimes they also need to be reintegrated into the community because they have been rejected. By enabling them to develop and become autonomous, they regain their dignity and a place in their community. The project to combat sexual violence in the framework of bilateral cooperation in the DRC will work precisely on that aspect in different provinces. Violence must also be prevented by involving as many men and boys as possible in the fight against violence. Men must become our allies. This year, I have promised to finance nine projects on transformative manhood, for a total amount of EUR 6 million. Three of these projects will be carried out in the DRC. These projects focus on a positive masculinity. Finally, we are helping to get rid of impunity. The Panzi Hospital, which I visited, will benefit from a project to secure forensic evidence and digitize the collected data. As far as the children's fund is concerned, Mrs Reynaert, we have indeed started a specific cooperation with UNICEF in the Nselewijk of Kinshasa. The aim of the cooperation, which is currently planned until 2024, is to support some 4,000 vulnerable families with young children from 0 to 5 years of age through an innovative cash transfer approach in that disadvantaged district of Kinshasa. They will receive a small sum of money on a monthly basis, 25 dollars, including support, advice and access to health care, good nutrition, hygiene and child protection. They will also be provided with skills in entrepreneurship and financial management. UNICEF's experience shows that the combination of a cash component with a social protection component, the so-called cash-plus approach, makes the impact on children of measures more sustainable. They get more and better nutrition, they can go to school more often and thus get more opportunities for a better future. I am convinced of the potential of such interventions as part of our efforts to improve children's access to social protection. It goes without saying that we will closely monitor the project in the coming period in order to draw lessons from that cash-plus approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u4	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive reply. We welcome the fact that the fight against gender inequality and sexual violence is at the heart of the Belgian development cooperation policy, which is incredibly important in Congo, as is the extension of social protection through the Children's Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u5	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 55023008C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u6	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by expressing my best wishes to everyone. I refer to the written version of my oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u7	Madam President, I refer to the written version of my oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u8	Madam President, Mrs Van Hoof, Mrs Depoorter, as I mentioned earlier in this committee, I am, of course, very indignant about the corruption in the DRC that came to light in the Congo Hold-Up dossier. It is unacceptable for a government to steal from its own people. It is good that all this has come to light. This makes it possible to act against past crimes and to learn lessons for the future. This dossier is mainly concerned with facts committed by the previous Congolese regime. Meanwhile, the new Congolese Government has asked the court to investigate these corruption cases. We encourage that and look forward to the results of that research. It is important that there be an independent judicial inquiry, apart from the government. When the articles on the Congo Hold-Up file were published, it was examined whether Belgian development money could be involved. Everything that came up was thoroughly analysed, and as I already replied during the discussion of the policy paper, only some small purchases were made by Enabel at the companies Congo Futur and Glory Group, worth 9.560 euros respectively in the period 2006-2017 and 1.704 euros in the period 2017-2019. It was mainly about the purchase of office equipment, coffee, water and other small necessities that Enabel did at these companies. Mrs Depoorter, as regards the possible complaint made by former President Kabila against investigative journalists, it is his right in a rule of law to apply to the court if he sees a valid reason for doing so. Of course, that should not be an excuse to muzzle journalists or silence them. As far as the new five-year programme for governmental cooperation with the DRC is concerned, this is indeed under preparation. In July last year, I delivered an instruction letter to Enabel asking him to start the preparatory work on this. The overall objective of this new portfolio is to contribute to the structural and sustainable improvement of the living conditions of the Congolese population living below the poverty line by promoting their resilience and autonomy. I would particularly like to focus cooperation on women and young people. We're just at the beginning of the new programming. The specific nature of the various interventions will be further defined in the coming months. It is also my intention to structure the new programme around four spearheads. The first pillar aims to give Congolese young people a better future perspective by supporting training and socio-economic integration activities. I would also like to work together to strengthen access to basic social services such as health and primary education, which are key sectors in the fight against social inequality. In addition, we will focus on combating food insecurity and improving living conditions through family farming. Particular attention will be paid to an agro-ecological approach. Finally, I would also like to support the strengthening of democracy and the rule of law. This cooperation will focus in particular on the fight against sexual violence and impunity, the participation of civil society and the strengthening of good governance. There will be no direct budget support in the new programme of governmental cooperation. The precise modalities of implementation will be laid down at a later stage. As a general rule, the programmes are directed by the Belgian development agency Enabel. This means that the Belgian and European regulations on public procurement apply and that Enabel himself remains responsible for the implementation. With regard to the third question, effective attention will be paid to the fight against corruption in the cooperation programme. How this will be done in practice will be determined in the coming months in the further development of the interventions. For example, it is intended to provide an opportunity to support the Congolese Government in implementing the necessary reform for the mobilisation and efficient and transparent use of tax revenues. Mrs Depoorter, you asked me about the role of investigative journalists and NGOs in this matter. I am convinced that civil society is an extremely important partner in the fight against corruption. In recent years, Belgian development cooperation has therefore supported a number of local and international NGOs working specifically on this theme, such as Le Congo n'Est Pas à Vendre, 11.11.11, the Century and Lawyers Without Borders. Le Congo n'Est Pas à Vendre is a platform against corruption, some members of which helped in this investigation. It is therefore clear that a strong civil society and a free press are very crucial.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u9	Madam Minister, everyone who has worked in Congo knows that Congo is one of the hardest countries to work, because a lot of money has to be put under the table to make certain things happen. This applies not only to economic matters, but also to individual NGOs, irrespective of Belgian development cooperation, who see that this is settled in Congolese society because of poverty and the lack of alternatives. That's why sometimes a little extra money has to be paid. That has been around for a long time and it is not easy to eradicate such behaviour from society, because that is not just with the government, but everywhere. That does not alter the fact that the population should not suffer from this. I know that, for example, fourth pillar organisations have stopped because there is so much involved before they can do what they want to do. This must be avoided and prevented. It would be very innovative if Belgium could make progress in this area in Congo. After all, one of the biggest challenges in fragile countries is tackling corruption. The situation in Congo is an example of this. When I met President Tshisekedi at the time, his two spearheads were the fight against corruption and education. I told him at the time that these are the perfect spearheads, which I also see coming back to the programme you want to set up with Congo. I am absolutely asking that you make a very strong commitment to the fight against corruption and also to the protection of people who fight corruption, the so-called watchdogs. We must encourage an innovative approach to this, especially as Belgium, which is still seen as an example in Congo. I will certainly support you in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u10	Madam Secretary, you do not really reassure me with your answer. You repeat what you said about a month ago. You will perform and learn lessons. You give a number of concrete priorities that you will be working on, which is very good, but at the same time you say that something still needs to be worked out to combat and prevent corruption and investigate what has gone wrong with the tax resources. That's actually what my question was about. I am very sorry to hear that. This is not the first time that the committee has discussed the flow of taxpayers' money, which are not adequately controlled and which are not sufficiently transparent. That's just my question. How will you bet on that? How will you ensure that the support for international solidarity can be demonstrated very clearly through transparent money flows? Once again, I find that this is not the case. You also say that you think the freedom of the press is very important. A journalist must have freedom of the press. What concrete steps will you take to ensure that journalists from our country feel supported by your department? Lawyer teams have been set up in different countries. There is the clear communication of the region of Kabila. He does indeed have the right to do what he thinks is necessary, as you say, but it is our duty to ensure that our journalists can exercise their freedom of the press at any time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u11	Madam President, I refer to the written version of my oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u12	The injustices and inequalities faced by African countries in terms of access to vaccines have been very common in recent months. I therefore continue to work through international solidarity to assist our partner countries in this. Belgium supports COVAX financially for €9 million for the purchase of vaccines and associated medical equipment. The funding to COVAX is also used to support countries with the roll-out of vaccination campaigns, the cold chain, logistics etc. To date, more than 900 million vaccines have been delivered via COVAX, of which more than 370 million have been donated. The initial delivery time problems are now largely solved. Since October 2021, Belgium has committed itself as coordinator for the EU donation of Johnson & Johnson vaccines and has successfully argued, together with the European Commission, for better sustainability and predictability of vaccination donations to producers so that problems with expiry dates can be reduced. Vaccines with an expiry date of less than three months shall no longer be offered to third countries. Receiving countries are supported by the World Health Organisation for the development of efficient vaccination plans. UNICEF, which has extensive experience in vaccination campaigns, assists countries in the distribution and administration of vaccines, both in terms of logistics and infrastructure as well as in the training of medical personnel. Above all, I want to go beyond the short term and contribute in a structural way to fair access to medicines and technologies. Belgium finances this for more than € 14.5 million through various instruments. For example, in Senegal and Rwanda, we are committed to a strong ecosystem for vaccine production through the strengthening of the regulatory framework and the training of local staff. Through the World Health Organisation, we are committed to improving access to vaccination technology through the mRNA Tech Transfer Hub based in South Africa. With regard to your question on the closure of borders, flight bans and travel restrictions, these issues will be followed up by my colleagues responsible for Home Affairs, Foreign Affairs and Health. They can explain to you more about discussions that are taking place within the EU. I can tell you that South Africa was not very happy. They've experienced it as a punishment. Their transparency was answered by a flight ban. They didn't record that properly. With regard to the pandemic treaty, the EU is in favour of a treaty that proposes response measures in a coordinated manner in the case of pandemics. For Belgium, this negotiation should be conducted as widely as possible, including the issue of fair access to vaccines and medicinal products during health crises. If the corona crisis has made one thing clear, it is that we need a global production capacity that can be used flexibly in crises and ensure that everyone has fair access to vaccines and medicines.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u13	Madam Secretary, there is still a lot of work to be done to vaccinate all of Africa; they are only at 8% of the population. I think we need to keep up the pace of dose sharing and funding to ensure that people get vaccinated there. The objectives set by COVAX and the WHO are not being met. I think that Belgium has already made a great deal of efforts, although a lot is being promised from the surrounding countries, but little is being done on the ground. Belgium is making a better turn: what it promises also hits on the spot. We are realistic in our objectives. That does not alter the fact that it is not enough today. I would urge you to continue the efforts and get the doses in a good way through dose sharing. Because there too there is a need for all kinds of booster vaccines or other. We must not let this go and rest on our laurels; we must keep this pace.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u14	Madam President, Madam Secretary, I heard an interview with you about cracking the patent of the mRNA vaccines. I found that a special statement, especially in the light of the patent pledge of a certain firm. How can things be reconciled? Are you proposing an initiative to circumvent the legal framework? Is that the government's position? You know that a motion for a resolution is being discussed in the Committee on Health, which has not yet been voted on. Do you think that our taxpayers' money can be used in a legitimate way to circumvent patent laws?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u15	Madam President, Minister, in fact we wish for health for the whole of the world. We can guarantee that this health will not be compromised by putting the issue of patents back on the table. The previous speaker has already mentioned it. We are very interested in the Belgian Government's position. You will not be surprised that the Labour Party keeps bringing this up again and again. Anyone with a heart and a conscience has been asking this for a year, including yourself, recently in an opinion piece in the newspaper with members of your party. Ideas for colleagues from the PS, Green, Ecolo in the media, in Parliament, in all kinds of pilot programmes, in all kinds of forums, through newspaper interviews and so on. However, there seems to be a certain distance between what the government says and does. It has already been called into question: when we made a proposal in the Committee on Health last month to ask Parliament to lift those patents, the majority left the Chamber in order not to be confronted with their own state of distribution. Allow me to use the word hypocrisy. The de facto opposition of government and Parliament to the lifting of patents has been going on for over a year now. We must dare to recognise that the current situation of sticking to the patents without sufficient vaccination in the South provides the best conditions for constantly reappearing variants. In time we go with all these variants all the Greek alphabet. Madam Secretary, when will you, and this government, respond effectively to the urgent demand of the majority of humanity, and resist the lifting of vaccine patents, so that the 85% of humanity that does not live in the rich Western countries can also be vaccinated sufficiently? In this way, we can normalize life as quickly as possible worldwide, even here in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u16	Madam President, Mrs Depoorter, the mRNA Tech Transfer Hub in South Africa, which we support, wants to cooperate with the pharmaceutical sector and so consults intensively with several companies to obtain licences. In parallel, the hub is working on its own next generation mRNA vaccine against COVID-19, to transfer that technology to local producers. What the hub does is according to patent law NTRIPS. There is an exception to patent law when technologies are used for research and development, which will therefore be the case for the hub in the next two years. In addition, Moderna gave written guarantees to the hub and to the European Commission, according to which it will not enforce its patents during the pandemic and that it will be open to discuss licenses. Any intellectual property arising from the hub will be transferred to the Medicine Patent Pool via a license. Those licences are therefore fully in line with the TRIPS Agreement and protect intellectual property. So I want to reassure you that our support for the MRNA Tech Tranfer Hub is perfectly legal. The word "cracking" in that interview was taken in the mouth by the journalist, not myself. We do nothing illegal, we work entirely according to the law in that area. That is the government's position. Mr De Vuyst, you know my position on the patents. I believe that we must do everything we can to ensure fair access to vaccines throughout the world, not just in the rich countries. The abolition of patents is one element in the otherwise complex discussion. I await with impatience the conclusions of the discussions on this matter within the World Trade Organisation. In the meantime, however, I will not sit still and wait. The mRNA Tech Transfer Hub is an initiative that can deliver concrete progress. That's not a story of what can't be, that's a story of what can. The hub is already contributing to a structural solution today. There is a strong commitment to partnerships with the private sector, although this does not prevent the development of a covid vaccination technology to which all countries have access. Belgium plays a leading role in this initiative, together with Germany and France and the European Commission. I will continue my efforts to contribute to a long-term solution to this problem. As far as the work in this Parliament is concerned, you know that Parliament has mastered its work. We must implement what Parliament decides. However, I would like to say that I have not stayed still for the past year and have not had discussions about what is not possible. On the other hand, I have looked for structural solutions. That is what we are doing with the hub in South Africa. That is what we are doing with the factory that will be opened in Senegal. In this way, we are trying to find structural solutions to guarantee real solidarity for all of humanity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u17	Madam Secretary, you are indeed not sitting still and trying to find a way out. Of course, this is a very clear demonstration of the fact that you are not getting ahead with this dossier within the government at all. So you are looking, wherever in the world, to be able to proclaim your vision, namely to give up those patents. Madam Minister, once again it is a clear example that the Vivaldi government does not come to a decision. This has been discussed for a long time and the vote is postponed. Madam Secretary, pay attention to a number of statements. Confirming that a patent is being cracked is a bit of pimping your weight. After all, you are carrying out what has been known for a long time, namely that Moderna does indeed have a patent pledge and has made a very clear promise from the outset that it will not fight it during the crisis, when the IP is used to produce a vaccine. It can also be communicated in this way, namely that you respect and apply this patent pledge of Moderna. That is something completely different from communicating that your government, which does not agree on the fact that a patent has to be lifted or not, is either running it on the other side of the world or running it on the other side of the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u18	Madam Secretary, let me also be nuanced. I also made it clear last time that it was an en-en-story. In this sense, the World Health Organization hub in South Africa, which is independent of the pharmaceutical industry, is a good thing. It is a path that we must continue, just like the COVAX mechanism with which vaccines are donated. As you yourself have always said, donations reach a ceiling at some point and must move towards solidarity. The position of the European Commission within the World Trade Organisation, which is still the de facto position of the Belgian Government, ultimately leads to the opposition of the majority of the population on this planet. We always have the mouths of the democracy that we want to promote in every corner of the world. There is now a clear will from the world community to lift the patents. Think also of the scientific consensus, many academics, full civil society or Doctors Without Borders, who have repeatedly urged the government to adopt a clear position on this matter as soon as possible and to plead within the European Commission for the waiver of patents. That will not happen, however. Many people then get the feeling that the interests of the pharmaceutical industry prevail and that public health comes second. The debate is never conducted intellectually honestly. It is argued that investment and research should be secured, but the vaccine is in this case a public asset. Although the pharmaceutical industry may be rewarded for the production of vaccines, the technology and recipe of the mRNA vaccine have been created with huge amounts of taxpayers' money and public funds. That should therefore be a public good, Madam Secretary. I wonder what is actually the specific weight of the left-wing parties within this Vivaldi coalition, because apparently there is only one political family within the government that stops everything. Many parties and MEPs from the various left-wing parties within the Vivaldi government are constantly crying out that that patent should be lifted, but on the ground we still see the same thing: they are de facto driving for the interests of the pharmaceutical industry. It's been noted. We'll keep coming back to that and we'll keep following it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u19	Let us collectively try to respect speaking times.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u20	Minister, the Congo Basin is one of the world's largest continuous tropical forest masses. This region is larger than the state of Alaska and ranks as the second largest rainforest on the planet behind the Amazon. It is full of natural resources such as timber, diamonds and oil, but current volumes and methods of extracting these resources are unsustainable and threaten the future of the region. In addition, hunting and wildlife trafficking threaten to destroy several species. Since November, at COP 26, some 100 countries have solemnly committed themselves to halting deforestation by 2030 around the world. In addition to deforestation, there is one aspect related to water management that is obviously fundamental to this problem. All Central African countries have already made commitments to protect their forests, including by increasing the number of protected areas and reserves. Unfortunately, in the face of insecurity in some areas and recurring political governance problems, the latter remain poorly managed and subjected to illegal logging or poaching. Minister, what position did Belgium have on this at COP 26? What activities does your department carry out to preserve this "second lung of the planet" and with what budget? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u21	As you point out, forests in the Congo Basin can be considered the second lung of our planet. I therefore insisted on this at COP26. First, Belgium joined the Global Forest Finance Pledge. This is a contribution of EUR 200 million from our country to the fight against deforestation and land degradation. This contribution will be spent in developing countries over the next five years through the development cooperation budget and in part with additional climate funding. The €200 million will be allocated in part by the country Parties to the Multilateral Climate Funds, such as the Global Environment Facility and the Green Climate Fund, and in part by Enabel, NGOs and scientific institutions. We will therefore work with a wider range of Belgian and international partners. As part of this commitment, a Declaration of the Congo Basin was also adopted and Belgium also endorsed it. With regard to the EUR 200 million already mentioned, Belgian Development Cooperation will contribute around EUR 26 million to the protection of Congo Basin forests. We are doing so, among other things, under the Central African Forest Initiative, to which we contributed €3 million in 2022. In fact, we intend to continue this contribution this year and in subsequent years. These contributions will be made to programmes and projects in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It is not only a question of reforestation projects but also of dealing fundamentally with the problems of deforestation. Forest policy in the Congo Basin is, for example, still largely deficient, but it is also a matter of attacking unsustainable agricultural practices and limited access to sustainable energy, while taking into account the high population growth.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u22	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, which I think is complete. I note all the commitments made by Belgium on this subject. You have defended them not only within COP26, but also within the government to get the budgets that will allow you to help the Congo Basin, the Congo and African countries in general. I would like to thank you for this particular attention to a subject which seems to us to be very remote geographically, but which is a close challenge given the importance of preserving this forest.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u23	Madam Minister, at the beginning of December, the European Commission and the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy launched the Global Gateway, the new European strategy to develop smart, clean and safe links in the fields of digital, energy and transport and to strengthen the world's health, education and research systems. Global Gateway aims to mobilise up to EUR 300 billion of investment between 2021 and 2027 to support a sustainable global recovery, taking into account the needs of partners and the European Union's own interests. The origin of Global Gateway funds would come from the EU's own resources, 27 Member States, European financial institutions and national development institutions, as well as private sector investments. This plan is based on tools from the European Union's Multiannual Financial Framework 2021-2027. For my group, this is an excellent initiative that repositions Europe for quality projects at the heart of development cooperation. In the context of global rebalancing and the emergence of European political power alongside the Defence Strategic Compass, there is a new vision and a realization of it. Minister, how does Belgium intend to support this new Global Gateway? What exchanges do you have in this respect within the framework of Team Europe? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u24	Mr President, the Global Gateway project is ambitious. This issue is closely linked to the ongoing discussions on the European financial architecture for development, and is also important in the context of the forthcoming EU-Africa Summit. It is therefore of particular interest to me and to my administration. Belgium supports this project and calls for maximum consideration of the three principles of inclusiveness, resilience and sustainability. Realising the ambitions of the Global Gateway project is largely based on the development cooperation of the European Union. The financial instrument, Global Europe, will thus be a main source of funding. In this context, Belgium will pay particular attention to respect for the principles of sectoral and geographical concentration, particularly for the least developed countries and the human development sectors. The implementation of Global Gateway on the ground will result in a large number of specific projects that are currently being prepared in the major Team Europe programming exercise, in which Belgium participates very actively with my Enabel MBU administration. This active Belgian participation is structured around several objectives: firstly, maximum coherence and complementarity with Belgian bilateral efforts involving special attention for the 14 partner countries and the African continent as a whole; secondly, a number of thematic priorities (climate, social protection, decent work, youth, women's empowerment and access to the public health system). Belgium, for example, is asking for reflections on a Team Europe Initiative "social protection" which, once finalised and approved in the year 2022, should focus on five Central African countries. Another Belgian priority concerns manufacturing and access to vaccines, medicines and health technologies project to Africa, for which we stress the importance of sustainable vaccine production mechanisms and therefore the consolidation of an enabling environment involving dialogue at all levels and the strengthening of public health systems.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u25	Madam Minister, thank you for these rather exciting answers. Belgium, once again and at your initiative, has taken a proactive position on this matter. It has defined its priorities in line with the European Compass as defined and with partner countries, etc. We now expect concrete results. But the funding seems to be there and your will is in any case present.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u26	Madam President, Madam Minister, when you presented your general policy note, you had specified that stability would be guaranteed for civil society organisations. Indeed, in your note, it is mentioned that the review of the 2016 Royal Decree would aim to ensure a stable and predictable regulatory framework, and that the funding of humanitarian aid by NGOs would be improved. ACODEV, the federation of CSOs, however, is concerned about Enabel's role in Team Belgium. The involvement of partner countries in the preparation of country programmes and the implementation of this plan is an important, if not indispensable, condition in order to best meet the needs of the affected communities. The coordinated approach of actions and actors in the same country through the Team Belgium initiative is a very good method which has already proved its worth and has made aid more effective and efficient. Nevertheless, the involvement of all actors in cooperation, including civil society organisations, is too random, according to the Commission. It should be noted that civil society organisations have a key role to play in the implementation of cooperation actions because of their close integration with the populations, particularly the most vulnerable populations, their long-term commitment and their support for the strengthening of a local civil society essential for the proper functioning of a free and rule-of-law democracy. Minister, could you describe your vision of Enabel's future management contract, in particular regarding the complementarity between different players in the Team Belgium and the necessary consultation of all civil society organisations operating in certain countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u27	Mr Ben Achour, I am convinced that if we work together, we get better results. Team Belgium is, as you rightly say, a necessary approach to ensure that our actions have maximum impact. I fully agree with you that civil society actors are crucial within Team Belgium, precisely because they are often closer to people and are a powerful lever for sustainable change. On the management contract, Enabel's representations are currently preparing, in close consultation with the post, a draft country strategy on the basis of the letter of instruction. This consultation process is being expanded to include the various stakeholders involved in this exercise. Our embassies in partner countries regularly organise meetings of the forum of Belgian cooperation actors, bringing together representatives of Enabel and non-governmental cooperation actors. An update on the preparation of strategies and portfolios is provided. Similarly, it is not uncommon for the expertise of Belgian non-governmental cooperation actors to be directly mobilized in the execution of country and thematic portfolios. For the new management contract, I would like to strengthen the integrated approach and the involvement of partner countries in the process of preparing new portfolios. Working groups are set up within Enabel and within my administration. They will start a reflection and work on the new management contract. I await their proposals and a text by the end of June 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u28	Madam Minister, thank you for all these clarifications.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u29	This is indeed a worrying report that the United Nations, through the World Meteorological Organization, published last October – a few weeks away from the opening of COP26. This organization demonstrates once again in its report how global warming is, and is likely to be, unfair in its way of impacting the planet and its people. In this case, the study is interested in its implications for Africa and the figures advanced are really frightening. Without adequate measures, 118 million people in extreme poverty are at risk of drought, flooding and extreme heat by 2030. At the same time, climate change would potentially lead to up to 3% additional GDP decline by 2050. The authors note that this continent is warming faster than the rest of the world, both on land and at sea. The rate of decline of African glaciers – albeit very few, mainly concentrated in three areas – is higher than anywhere else and is expected to lead to a complete deglaciation around 2040. The same applies to the level of sea level rise, which is also higher than elsewhere. In order to address the multitude of challenges, the World Meteorological Organization is calling for investments in hydrometeorological infrastructure and warning systems. Have you read this report? Above all, what are the actions envisaged or undertaken by our cooperation in this context and what will be our response to the World Meteorological Organization?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u30	Mr Ben Achour, thank you for bringing this scientific report published by the World Meteorological Organization to your attention. Climate change will indeed have a very important impact, certainly in our partner countries. As you know, Belgium is primarily committed to adapting to climate change in our partner countries. The improvement of alert systems and scientific institutions is essential in this regard. For our action, we therefore respond to the call to which you refer. First, we are making a significant contribution to multilateral climate funds, through which countries are already investing in their hydrometeorological infrastructure and early warning systems. Belgium is making a significant contribution to these funds: this year and in the coming years, it is EUR 20 million per year for the Green Climate Fund and EUR 15 million per year for the East Developed Countries Fund. Secondly, we have developed specific projects that will contribute to the strengthening of alert systems and scientific institutions in the Sahel region and in the Congo, I will mention two of them. With the climate partnership in the Sahel, which I launched at the end of last year and which Enabel will implement, Belgium will contribute to the strengthening of regional organisations, such as Agrimed, which is the regional climate centre of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). The climate services offered by this centre should ultimately benefit local users. A second example is our support for the Human and Biosphere Programme (Unesco's MAB program) in the Gambian (...) Reserve, in the DRC, at the Kisangani Centre of Excellence for Biodiversity and Climate. With this project we want to facilitate mutual capacity-building between research institutions in the North and the South. In addition, through this project, Congolese policy makers will have access to scientific data to improve their climate and biodiversity protection policies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u31	I thank the minister for her answers. It seems to me appropriate to point out that, in this particular case, the concept of investment is very meaningful, since it is estimated that between $30 billion and $50 billion would have to be allocated annually to adaptation activities in the coming decades to avoid even higher disaster relief costs. It is the concept of investment that prevails in this case. I will also refer to IMF surveys of households in Ethiopia, Malawi, Niger, Tanzania (etc.) which have revealed that it is possible to reduce the percentage of risk of food insecurity, for example, by 30 points by simply improving access to early warning systems and information on food prices and weather conditions by texting or texting informing farmers of the most opportune times or to avoid planting, irrigating, fertilising, i.e. developing a climate-sensitive agriculture. Sometimes little is needed to significantly improve people's lives and their ability to adapt to climate conditions that deteriorate at V-V's speed in a very worrying way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u32	Madam President, Madam Minister, in the Dutch House of Representatives, ministers de Bruijn and Knapen explained the conclusions of the external investigation into possible links between the Palestinian NGO UAWC, with which we worked until 2017, and the PFLP. The PFLP has been referred to as a terrorist organisation, as we have discussed before. The investigation shows that the Dutch government has indeed indicated very close personal links between UAWC and PFLP employees, which is of great concern. Therefore, the Dutch government decided not to finance the UAWC anymore. In general, the Dutch Government will adjust its due diligence, due caution, in such contracts or collaborations. Madam Secretary, were you informed by the Dutch Government and do you have any knowledge of that report? Did you receive that report or request it and look into it? If not, why not? Can you share that report with the Belgian Parliament, possibly behind closed doors, as happened in the Netherlands? What importance do you attach to the conclusions of that report, particularly in view of the questions I raised earlier on this issue, in particular the flows of funds to Palestine that the Israeli authorities consider suspicious? You were informed of that yourself. Will you adjust your own way of working with due caution? For example, a new partnership will have to be concluded. Will you take into account in that agreement the findings of the Dutch Government in that report?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u33	Madam President, Minister, I have put forward a question linked to this, which is, in a way, the reflection of my predecessor's discourse, which may not be surprising. The context has already been outlined. Unfortunately, the Dutch Government has decided no longer to support the UAWC in Palestine. The Dutch government actually did so in response to the latest attempt by the Israeli government to criminalize a large part of Palestinian civil society. This attempt is described by all human rights organisations and also by relevant UN organisations as a direct attack on human rights defenders worldwide. Moreover, the Dutch Government did the same, which I find worrying and curious, although both the American and most European governments had expressed serious doubts about the lack of evidence that the file of the occupying regime could present. The Israeli measure is clearly part of the authoritarian trend that we are seeing in other countries and in which the playing field of NGOs and civil society is being shrinked, the so-called shrinking space for non-governmental organisations. My question is clear. Did you think that the Dutch Government was being pressured by the Israeli ambassador or by other apartheid authorities to make that decision? Do you also experience pressure from that angle to stop legitimate Belgian cooperation with the Palestinian partners? What is your vision and your assessment of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u34	Madam President, Mrs Depoorter, Mr De Vuyst, both my services and those of the Foreign Minister, Mrs Wilmès, have received a copy from the Dutch authorities of the letter addressed by Ministers Tom de Bruijn and Ben Knapen to the Second Chamber on 5 January. That letter explains the results of an external investigation and its appreciation by the Dutch Government. The letter states that no evidence of financial flows between UAWC and PFLP has been found. However, twelve persons would have combined a leading position at UAWC with a position at a social organisation linked to the PFLP. However, the investigating agency indicates that it has not found any evidence suggesting that staff or board members of the UAWC have used their position for terrorist activities or to support terrorist activities. That is also why the Dutch Government has decided not to disclose the investigation report itself because it considers that this could cause disproportionate damage to those civil society organisations. Therefore, I cannot share the research report with you either, as we have not received it from the Dutch colleagues. The letter addressed to the House of Representatives can be found on the website of the Dutch government. I would like to point out that both the investigation initiated and the decision of the Dutch Government to stop funding concern only UAWC and not the other NGOs listed by Israel. Moreover, since 2017, the UAWC has not been financed from the resources of Belgian Development Cooperation. So I do not see any new elements that change my conclusion, which I have already explained in detail here. As far as control mechanisms are concerned, I have already discussed them in detail in previous discussions in this committee. Partner organisations were asked to identify the risks of working with Palestinian partners and to develop an appropriate strategy to minimise those risks. These mechanisms shall continue to apply without prejudice to future cooperation with Palestinian NGOs. Mr De Vuyst, I am not aware of your question about pressure that would have been exerted by the Israeli government on the Dutch Government. My services and myself have, as has already been pointed out, been in contact with the Israeli authorities on this issue in the context of current diplomatic relations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u35	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It's actually hallucinating. When you received the file from the Israeli services, you said that you were in close contact with the Netherlands that was conducting an external investigation and with Europe that was going to investigate these money flows. After having received a copy of a letter, you did not even bother to contact your Dutch colleagues and to ask clearly what was in that report and what might be important for the flows of money that go from our country to Palestine and which could possibly be compromising. You say that nothing has been discovered about the means, but it has been discovered about the people. But it is, of course, the people who spend the resources on the ground. I find it incredibly nonchalant that you, like Minister Wilmès, are not going to do this and neither of you are actually doing your job by investigating what is going wrong or could go wrong in the future. You are going to negotiate a new partnership agreement, but you do not know what to look for and do not seem to think it is necessary. It is the umpteenth time that we in the N-VA Group have pointed out that public funds must be properly spent and that, if you are really working on international solidarity, transparency is absolutely necessary. I will contact the Dutch authorities myself, perhaps they can make us see it as a Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for the clarifications. As you also point out, cooperation between Belgian Development Cooperation and the UAWC has ceased. However, let us not forget the context in which Palestinian civil society must work. I constantly have the impression that a deliberate framing will reverse the roles. Palestinian civil society is sometimes accused of having links with terrorism, while the State of Israel organises state terrorism against the Palestinians. The Palestinians are opposed to this. It is not surprising that, in such a context, civil society in this case wants to support the Palestinians, to ensure that the land robbery does not continue, and that it supports the Palestinians, in order to grow the country they still own in the most optimal way possible. Moreover, if, on the basis of this very light burden of proof and light findings, the Dutch government will not even have any concrete evidence of institutional links and funding between the two organisations, the PFLP and the UAWC, it will continue and decide, each time the Israeli government puts certain organisations outside the law, it will benefit Israel. After all, within a short time, Palestinian civil society will be completely wiped out, whatever the Israeli government ultimately wants to do as an apartheid state. However, Madam Minister, I have also understood between the rules that you will not be intimidated, that you have not yet been put under pressure and that Belgian development cooperation will also organise further cooperation with the partners on the ground. We must also be vigilant. After all, we see that the Netherlands is certainly on the basis of the report, which is very light, because it talks about individual links between certain people of the organisation and the PFLP, but not about institutional cooperation. That is, of course, very worrying. I hope that in your capacity as Minister or that the current government will never feel obliged to participate in the criminalisation of the government and Palestinian civil society.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u37	Previously, I give everyone my best wishes, especially for a good health, because that starts with happiness. Madam Secretary of State, on 24 December Myanmar's army in the state of Kayah attacked innocent civilians. More than 35 civilians were killed that day. It is very worrying that employees of the organization Save the Children were also murdered by the army. The attack is not an isolated fact. Since the army in Myanmar seized power on 1 February, there is chaos and violence. At least 1,375 people have been killed and over 8,000 protesters and opponents arrested. The figures are just the tip of the iceberg. It is really unacceptable that civilians, especially humanitarian workers, should be the target of lethal repression. What are we going to do about this? Since the attack, Save the Children has ceased operations there. How's it going over there now? Does the organization restart its activities? It is such a flagrant violation of international humanitarian law. It is really high time that the international community took action against this. What concrete measures are being taken to put an end to impunity against civilians and humanitarian organisations? Will the UN Security Council respond to Save the Children's call for action to detect and prosecute those responsible for the terrible murders? The High Representative, Mr Borrell, also called on those responsible to be prosecuted on 30 December. What initiatives has the EU already taken in this regard? Do you have any idea if there are other humanitarian organisations operating in Myanmar? Do you have any knowledge of any other attacks on the employees of those NGOs? On 24 April the ASEAN countries reached an agreement on the return to democracy in Myanmar, the so-called five-point consensus. Do you believe that this five-point consensus is effective and effectively contributes to the de-escalation of violence? How is the effective implementation of the agreement monitored? Humanitarian aid workers are really needed in Myanmar. They have already helped more than one and a half million people there. They are willing to do more, but they still do not have access to additional funding. Are flexible funds from Belgium used to support humanitarian organisations active in Myanmar? If so, what amount is that? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u38	Madam President, Mrs Liekens, I am very concerned about the deteriorating humanitarian situation in Myanmar. It is indeed unacceptable that civilians and humanitarian aid workers should be seen as targets. The events of 24 December are shocking and make humanitarian aid more difficult and more and more people are forced to flee. The UN Security Council also condemned the massacre on 29 December. It stressed the need to hold the perpetrators accountable, to respect human rights and the security of citizens, to put an end to violent situations and to ensure safe and unhindered access to humanitarian aid. Josep Borrell's statement is very recent. At the moment, it is not clear what new initiatives will be taken. In 2021, EUR 24.5 million has already been used to meet the immediate needs of the most vulnerable population groups, including displaced persons and conflict-stricken communities. According to a briefing by the Danish Refugee Council, the Norwegian Refugee Council and the International Rescue Committee in November 2021, more than 14 million people will be in need in 2022. That is a dramatic increase of 1 million compared to last year. Difficult access to humanitarian aid remains the main obstacle to addressing growing humanitarian needs. As a modern and principled humanitarian donor, Belgium indirectly supports the response to that humanitarian crisis. The flexible funds financed by Belgium have responded effectively to the crisis in Myanmar in 2021. For example, CERF from OCHA has allocated USD 10 million to FAO, UNFPA, UNICEF, WFP and WHO. The DREF of the International Red Cross has allocated 150,000 Swiss francs for a flood action during the monsoon and, via IRA, $5.3 million was allocated. As regards your question about Save the Children, since Myanmar is not one of the priority geographical areas for Belgian humanitarian aid and Save the Children is not one of the Belgian humanitarian partners, my administration does not have the most recent information about their operations in Myanmar. A meeting with Martin Griffiths was planned following the European Humanitarian Forum in Brussels in January. Unfortunately, the forum, and therefore the visit of Griffiths, was postponed because of the covid situation. He has already responded to the events and strongly condemned them. I myself do not fail to plead in the relevant fora for respect for international humanitarian law and humanitarian principles throughout the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u39	Madam Minister, despite the difficult circumstances of the covid pandemic, it remains regrettable that there is no clarity about the concrete actions that the international community will take against those responsible for the lethal repression. The humanitarian staff are absolutely necessary, in Myanmar more than anywhere else, and I am glad that you acknowledge that. The needs are great and it is already difficult enough to work there. I hope that we will send out a very clear signal very quickly that we will take firm and firm action against it and that we will not accept it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u40	- What are the objectives Belgium defended at the Summit of Democracy on 9-10 December 2021?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u41	I would first like to confirm my total support for the "Defend the Defenders" campaigns. Civil society plays a crucial role in strengthening democracy and human rights. That is why their protection is one of my priorities. With regard to the "Claiming back civic space" study you mentioned, a concept note was approved in November 2020. In 2021, I approved support for two international organisations with field expertise on measures to protect human rights defenders in Africa: "DefendDefenders", active in East Africa, including in the partner countries of Belgium, Uganda, Tanzania, Burundi and Rwanda, and "Protection International", active in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Great Lakes region. This is a €500,000 funding to NGOs for a period of two years. In addition, I have taken the decision to finance eight projects in Uganda, Burundi and Tanzania following a call for projects with a budget of EUR 1.95 million. The majority of these projects focus on the transparency and participation of isolated groups in order to give them a voice. With regard to the Summit for Democracy, Belgium was represented by the Prime Minister. He announced my priorities, including the importance of continuing to work for democracy and the rule of law at both national and international levels. With regard to international solidarity, my commitment has been to strengthen civil society and human rights defenders in partner countries, including through additional financial support to the Office of the High Representative for Human Rights and its national offices in the DRC, Palestine, Uganda and Guinea Conakry. Finally, our participation in the "Team Europe Democracy" initiative was announced. This initiative aims to promote democracy and human rights throughout the world as part of a common European effort. Finally, with regard to the study on the existing mechanism launched in early 2021, the "bruillon" version of the study's recommendations and a strategic note were submitted at the end of December 2021. This work will be finalized and validated in 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u42	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. On several questions, you have seen in your answers that this remains a priority for you, including in other parts of the world. This is also reflected in your policy notes. It's obvious. Wherever possible, you provide targeted support. The future strategic note that will emerge in 2022 will be the necessary link between this vision that is yours and the support of the various organizations on the ground. We fully share your vision of supporting civil societies at risk all over the world, not just on the African continent. In Latin America, too, indigenous peoples are experiencing incredible violence. On the Asian continent too, the stakes are major. Therefore, Belgium must also continue to strive for a highly developed and systematic strategic and political vision of these issues. We cannot succeed in any fight if we do not defend those who carry it in the front line. Minister, I am pleased that a strategic note will be completed in 2022. So I'll come back with a question in a few months to see if we can get access to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u43	Minister, a few weeks ago was announced the release of Corbevax, the first fully patent-free vaccine. He seems to bring with him an interesting opportunity to be able to multiply on a global scale. The cost of production would be $2.5 per dose, while some other vaccines would be worth more than tens of dollars. This vaccine is therefore a great hope. Those who have conceived it are clearly positioned in a line of decolonizing access to health and in a perspective of responding to the control of large pharmaceutical companies over vaccine production. I just wish I had your opinion on the real opportunity that this vaccine represents for the countries of the South in the vaccination strategy, in addition to what you have already put in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u44	Madam Member, we must indeed welcome the encouraging initiative of this American firm, which makes available its know-how and its vaccine free of intellectual property rights. This is a positive signal for global efforts to promote vaccines as a public good. Human testing in India has shown that the vaccine is safe and effective, although results for the omicron variant are still pending. India already allows the vaccine, but there are still prerequisites to meet before it can be used and distributed globally. As a result, an emergency use authorization has yet to be provided by WHO. Peer reviews of efficacy studies are also expected. Nevertheless, the decision of vaccine developers not to patent, as well as licensing and technology transfer agreements, is a good example of how covid-19 vaccine could be produced locally and on a large scale in the countries of the South. The vaccine can be produced anywhere in the world. Licences are already being issued to Indian producers and in Indonesia, Bangladesh and Botswana. To date, messenger RNA vaccines are considered to be the most effective. But it is clear that the arrival of each new effective vaccine presents an opportunity to strengthen the overall vaccination strategy and to deal with the risk of a lack of vaccines. The additional scientific data expected in the near future will provide more clarity on the place of Corbevax in the overall vaccination strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic653x.u45	Minister, I therefore hear that we are only at the beginning of the process of validation and potential dissemination of the vaccine. I share your opinion and your vision: the fact that a company shares its technology is a strong signal to others who are reluctant to do so. However, I do not want to reopen the subject of patent waiver, because you have already addressed it today. We know your position on this issue. I hope, however, that if this vaccine proves to be effective and safe and can be widely shared, the pressure on Pfizer and others will be felt in order to move faster towards the lifting of the patent on their technology. Thank you for sharing your vision on this possible future vaccine. We will follow this closely.
