ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u1	Madam Minister, two weeks ago you confirmed in this committee that you are working on an overprofit tax, in accordance with the Italian model, as you stated at that time. In the meantime, it is clear to everyone that major excess profits are currently being made by energy producers. It was also confirmed by the CREG and the National Bank. You also said at that time that you are investigating the technical and legal feasibility of a one-off crisis contribution. Last week, however, you said at RTBF, surprisingly, that you would not go to the government until September or even October with a first proposal. This would mean that the government might not decide anything until more than a year after the start of the energy crisis. So it all remains very hypothetical and unacceptable to us. What's taking you so long to take action? How many times are you going to announce that no one is allowed to enrich themselves in that crisis, while every action remains out? What technical or legal objections remain for an excess profit tax? Do you have any idea of the percentage of excess profits you wish to reap? Is it the 70% proposed by the CREG a while ago? Or do you want to go to more or less? What period will the excess profits be skimmed over? Since the beginning of the energy crisis, i.e. September 2021, or only from the entry into force of your bill? I hope not, because then it will be real figs after Easter. Do you guarantee here and now that there will be an overprofit tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u2	Mr President, the only thing I agree with, and I agree with the previous speaker, is that this is not the first time that we have spoken about this subject. All the political groups spoke on the issue of taxation of overprofits. It is only a matter of tax justice, especially in this exceptional time when our citizens are literally under the tide. Where I stand out, it is on the fact that nothing would have been done, which is more than false, since we know that several bodies have given opinions which we have debated (the CREG, the National Bank of Belgium (NBB)). It is clear that multinational energy companies make record profits while a record number of people are unable to pay their energy bills. That's the problem. I remember the IEA (International Energy Agency) which referred to a figure of EUR 200 billion in over-profits in the sector. Engie-Electrabel made 92 billion for 2021 and paid dividends to Paris to the tune of 1.2 billion euros. This is unacceptable! All the groups, I think, come together to say that there must be tax justice and that a crisis contribution must be imposed. Our group has asked this question many times. I think the government is committed to making progress on this issue. What's your status? What specific proposals have you put on the government table for the entire energy sector, regardless of technology?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u3	Madam Minister, you have said on several occasions that you want to tackle the excess profits and that several reports and opinions have been requested, including from the CREG and the National Bank. You would also be working on a proposal for a crisis tax to respond to this. The advice given by the Council of State on the PVDA Group's legislative proposal showed that it is useful and necessary to involve the Regions as well, as this could affect their powers. If you take an initiative, the same rules will probably apply. In what way do you wish to proceed with this dossier? What form do you specifically investigate in the context of skimming off the excess profits? What definition of excess profit would you like to use? Have you had contact with your state colleagues in this regard, given the Council of State's view?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u4	It's a good thing you don't go over the night ice cream. We could approach the matter very populistally, like my colleague from the PVDA, but I do not. After all, we have an operator, who said here a year and a half ago that he is open to business, but that a balance will always have to be sought. I therefore believe that your initiative is or has been on the negotiating table. You already know about the one-off crisis contribution. When examining the technical and legal feasibility, together with the Minister of Finance, you wanted more clarity in relation to the gas plants. I hope that you can now, near the recess, be more concrete, apart from the interviews you have done for the RTBF.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u5	Madam Minister, companies make profits and losses, sometimes very large profits and losses. Let us be clear: taxation dictates that profits are taxed. The question arises as to what normal profits are and what exceptional treatment deserves. In any case, there is a need for clarity, transparency and consistency. That is what we saw in last week's debate on taxation. If it is said that we have to tax excess profits, then we can also ask whether excess losses should be compensated, but I am not going to go into that now. The question I want to ask you is whether we are not engaged in the wrong debate. If high profits are made in sectors which also receive large subsidies from the public authorities, then there is an imbalance between supply and demand. However, as far as price formation is concerned, the European authorities have determined the mechanisms. In addition, the government has also decided that we need to be honest about this: that part of the energy supply is eliminated. Finally, we have made ourselves very dependent on Belgium to a lesser extent, but Germany certainly has a geopolitical situation, not to mention geopolitical blackmail. The question is, therefore, whether we should, as a matter of priority, restore a healthy market mechanism so that demand and supply return to balance, which will lead to price formation that is consistent with normal market functioning.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u6	Mr Warmoes, first of all, I would like to say that it is unacceptable for me not to go on ice. Just because I do not want to do so, we have been very methodical and step by step. You have said here three times that I or we would not have done anything with the government, but I do not accept that. On 27 September we asked the CREG for the first time whether there were excess profits. On 14 October, the CREG replied that there is a risk of bankruptcy, that there are no excess profits, except for gas producers outside Belgium. It is the year 2021. On 17 January 2022 we again questioned the CREG. During that period, prices were rising, the economy was again attracting, but Russia had not yet invaded Ukraine. So on 17 January we asked the CREG for an update. An update came on February 1st, after which we asked additional questions. On 14 March 2022 we started our own initiative. Then, on 26 April 2022, we asked the National Bank for additional input, because we were confronted with the fact that the CREG could indeed make some calculations, but that the concept of "overprofit" was not defined, either economically or legally. Those are the previous steps. To show that these steps are logical, I refer to the same opinion as Mr Wollants referred to, namely the opinion of the Council of State on your own proposal. The Council of State wrote on this point: "The comments made in this regard must be inferred that the proposal needs to be thoroughly re-examined and re-examined. The Council of State, the legislative section, therefore refrains from examining it further." If you write something down soon without any justification, you'll have that going on. Indeed, I have said several times that no one should enrich themselves in the context of the energy crisis. For this purpose, well-considered proposals must be submitted to the government, based on figures and analyses, and sufficiently robust. You ask me what objections there may be, but perhaps you should read the opinion that the Council of State has formulated in your own legislative proposal, so that you know what the objections are if you want to do something like that. It is important to consider the principle of equality, the infringement of the right to property and the fact that the previous governments have concluded contracts with agreements and clauses. In addition, there are elements to which Mr Wollants referred. Perhaps there is also a need for consultation with the Regions. All these objections are raised. Those objections should not prevent us from doing anything, but it does mean that we cannot go to the ice unscathed. Mr Warmoes, since prices rose, the government has helped families and businesses, up to four times, for EUR 4 billion. We have also introduced the energy standard. There will soon be questions about the effect of this energy standard. At the same time, when prices are so high, we have been working to tax the disproportionate profits if there are. I have said it several times here: from the moment we have gathered the information, we have formulated our own proposal. I have also shared that within the government, at the level of the IKWs, so that one can work on this at the level of the government. I have therefore put forward a proposal for a crisis contribution, a one-off contribution, a special contribution to excess profits made as a result of exceptionally high energy prices. I shared the proposal for overprofit taxation with my government colleagues with the necessary caution, with a view to working more in the coming months and making it legally and fiscally stronger. Italy has already introduced such a tax or contribution and I have therefore based my proposal on it. The Italian contribution on overprofits is based on the VAT declaration of the energy sector and has the pragmatic advantage of using already existing declarations. For its part, the National Bank of Belgium has always indicated that there should be a permanent excess income tax, which should be symmetrical and smart, which means that the losses made in the past should also be taken into account or the excess profit should be taken into account if it is used for a socially desirable investment such as in the energy transition. We have been able to read this in the most recent expert report. At the same time, the National Bank of Belgium also understands the introduction of a quick one-off tax, which is best suited to the permanent solution or has been carefully drafted, i.e. a limited rate from a certain threshold. These are elements that we have also found in the Italian overprofit contribution. My proposal is therefore to levy a special tax equivalent to 25% of the increase in the gross margin, as shown by the periodic VAT returns submitted for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2022 and compared to the same gross margin for the same period from 2021. Gross margin is to be understood as outgoing transactions minus incoming transactions. The tax will only be levied if within a quarter the increase is at least 100,000 euros and more than 10%. The gross margin shall be calculated and evaluated on a quarterly basis in order to establish a special tax per quarter. That particular load is technology-neutral. It applies to electricity and natural gas companies known to the four regulators. It also applies to registered petroleum dealers reporting to the FPS Economy and thus paying VAT in Belgium. In concrete terms, it concerns all suppliers, producers and traders of electricity, natural gas and petroleum. Indeed, the development of such a contribution must respect a number of principles, which must also be assessed with caution, such as, for example, the principle of equality, which is that equal categories must be treated equally and unequally. As far as I am concerned, the energy sector, which has been widely mentioned by the European Commission, the International Energy Agency and the CREG in my own country, is considered to be an exceptional profit in this sector, is a category which can be endorsed separately. However, there is also the principle of non bis in idem. We have just talked about the repartition contribution. During that debate, reference was also made to the fact that there is a technology, namely nuclear energy, some of which is already taxed in the form of a repartition contribution for non-life-longened power stations and other plants, which have a separate regime and have been extended in service life. So it will indeed be necessary to look at what is taxed versus what is untaxed. So the question is whether both can be developed in a complementary way. Let us not forget that the repartition contribution was designed at a time when there were no exceptional profits or war. The repartition contribution itself is clearly defined as a tax on excess profit at the time of its development, as a result of the windfall profits and also several CREG studies. We will therefore have to assess this in any case. My proposal is now the subject of discussion within the government. You can't misunderstand my words in the RTBF interview. This government, like any other government, has a certain way of working. A proposal is first shared within the government at the level of the interkabinets. That is where the technicians and experts are sitting together, including in the field of taxation, so that the proposal can be fine-tuned further. After that, it goes to the government. It is therefore not a problem that this is being carried out in the context of the budgetary negotiations. I didn't say we'd wait till then. No, my proposal has been drawn up on the basis of the input collected and the discussion within the government can now begin. Indeed, as Mr Cogolati said, this is a question of tax justice. At a time when a record number of people has trouble paying the invoice, it cannot be that certain companies book record profits. As a reminder, in the CREG's estimates for nuclear power plants, there is EUR 2.1 billion for Objectives 3 and 4 and Tihange 2 and 3. There are no CREG figures for the other nuclear power plants. I have been informed that there is no data available for those nuclear power plants and that the CREG would also have no legal means to obtain that data. As far as the offshore wind farms are concerned, the CREG informs me that there were no excess profits in 2021 and 2022. As far as natural gas power plants are concerned, the CREG amounts to €342,3 million. Finally, the petroleum sector is excluded from the CREG's estimate. In the meantime, I believe that the CREG has already explained these figures to a large extent in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u7	Madam Secretary, you are rewriting history. You have given a good chronology, but it remains a fact that you were satisfied with the first report of the CREG, which stated, on the basis of older figures, that there were no excess profits, until we, in particular, calculated my employee's own excess profits and showed that there was EUR 800 million in excess. Only then did you request an update from the CREG. That's when the ball started rolling. That is a first point. A second point is that you refer to the opinion of the Council of State on our own proposal. Of course, we have read this carefully. We are working to solve that, but we have taken responsibility at that time. How many employees do you have in your cabinet, Madam Secretary? What army of civil servants do you have? You have resources that we do not have, but we have done what we could at the time, and of course we are not experts either. You say that you want to come up with a sensible proposal and do not want to go on slippery ice. I understand that, but I've noted it here. You've been thinking for a year. Meanwhile, in March or April, Italy has already introduced an overprofit levy. A little later, the UK followed. Don't they have a principle of equality? Don't they have a right to property? They did go through with it. So no problem that you want to deal with it carefully, but it takes a very long time. Something tells me that this is political unwillingness, perhaps not with you, but at least within the government. This is also apparent from the President's speech here, who is of a different party than you. You referred to the Italian model without specifying whether you are behind it. They have indeed done it in Italy, but we find 25% very low. The CREG had proposed a load of 70%. You spent EUR 4 billion to help the people. We have also approved this, but of course that is taxpayers' money, while private shareholders continue to enrich themselves. We can't do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answer that clarifies the proposal you put on the table. I think everyone here has done their job, the CREG, the National Bank of Belgium, and you have, according to the Italian model, put forward a rational proposal that can join the consent of the largest number of parties in the government. Now it's a matter of urgency. The government must adopt this measure as soon as possible. It is extremely difficult to explain to people, whether it is young people who are kotteting, single-parent families, pensioners who fail to make ends meet, whose bills are exploding, that at the same time, energy producers are exceptionally full of them and take advantage of the crisis. There is something indecent, something unjust, something that needs to be rectified as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u9	Madam Secretary, I think it is very wise to ensure that when you come up with something, it is sound. By the way, that would be my advice for about everything, but absolutely for this story. We have noticed that the federal government has spent a lot of time in courts when it comes to cases like this. As a result of the discussion we had about the law on the repartition contributions, I reviewed this again, together with Jean-Marc Nollet. Indeed, it is not so easy to achieve something that lasts, especially with the statements made in the past. In this respect, my criticism of the performance of the PVDA was very clear. That is why I fought for advice from the Council of State at the time. After all, I had a suspicion of what the Council of State might think of it. I think it is important that you remain in a debate with Parliament to see which direction you are going in and in which direction you are thinking. After all, we can continue to study, but at the end of the journey we must achieve a result. I think that's important. That is not what these proposals do, which go down short and try to pull in billions suddenly. This applies to the PVDA proposal, but I also remember a number of amendments tabled by Mr Calvo from the previous government period, where he suddenly asked Electrabel for EUR 1.8 billion in three sentences. I don't think it works that way. I think you should take steps and inform us about which direction you want to go. Then we can judge it here too. After all, the debate is now being moved to the future. We do not know what it will be and we look forward very much to knowing on what basis you will chair all this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u10	Mr President, I share the Minister's ambition to return some of the exceptional revenue from exceptional circumstances to the government. The government was obliged to intervene in order to prevent social disasters, as the Minister rightly said. I agree with the Minister that this should be done on the basis of figures and analyses. I also agree with her that this should be robust. For me, that is a synonym of legal certainty. The Minister has rightly pointed out a number of problems, such as the principle of equality. Are we taking overprofits, just for the energy sector and not for others? Do we distinguish between nuclear and non-nuclear energy? What about the right to property? Add the principle of non bis in idem to that. That is not legally clear. It is perhaps not a coincidence that in the past there have been ambitions to assess nuclear revenues, where the political world landed on a repartition contribution at the time. That is not a tax in the traditional sense of the word, but a conventional arrangement. Afterwards, it was found that this was legally certain, because it was an agreement between the parties concerned who did not fight against it. I wish you every success in the coming weeks and months. I am not saying this in a cynical way, because I do not find the task entrusted to you by the government clear. I really don't want to minimize that. I wish you'd get around with that. If you succeed, you deserve a compliment, Madam Secretary. This is also an opportunity to tackle this in a convention. If you list the figures for the nuclear overprofits, that's a lot more exponentially. If we can find a solution in the repartition contributions, we have a robust, legally secure solution on that most important part in the energy sector in terms of overprofits. After all, there are also excess profits in gas. It is not obvious that we should also tackle this in a legally robust way. I am not under any illusions that this too will be challenged, because it is about a lot of money. This is the case in this country, but also in other countries. I do advocate taking as little risk as possible. It would be unfortunate if we were to assess excess profits that would be destroyed by some court at the end of the journey, in x-number of years.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u11	Madam Secretary, I understand when you say we need to go to the ice. Then you listed a few things that you think can cause potential problems if our homework is not done properly. That is true, but we are in charge in this country and at some point choices have to be made. Bad contracts from the past or not, at some point there has to be jumping. You referred to it as war prices, and Mr Verherstraeten mentioned it as exceptional circumstances. That remains to be seen, because I do not see any improvement in the war situation at the borders of the European Union, and I do not see today that the problems at French nuclear power stations will be resolved next week. I think the biggest victim of the entire crisis is the climate itself. There too, there is no idea whether the impact on our prices will improve. Let us hope that these are exceptional circumstances, but I do not see any evidence that this is the case. These excess profits are the result of a European pricing market, based on a normal free market and saying that profits must be reinvestable in that market. But what I note at the same time is that many European Member States are no longer interested in this free market and are taking measures far from it. It is very good that we are looking at the gains, but that is a symptom of a system that is fundamentally wrong. That free market does not work as it should, and the pricing system makes companies book very large profits today that they have no merit at all. The only reason they make these profits is because the pricing market in Europe is so organised. That is a statement I wanted to make. Madam Secretary, you have shown in the past that you can get out of difficult cases. For me, this may be one of your most important tasks in the coming months, along with the other important dossier on VAT and excise duties that is on your desk today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I shall confine myself to the content. What's it about? As you said yourself, this is an unprecedented energy crisis, and we see that many families are having a hard time paying their invoices. This weekend, I saw people with hands in their hair, and they were grateful for a federal government that has made decisions and in the past wanted to support the families. But as Mr Cogolati said, it is very difficult to explain to those people that there are energy producers that are making excess profits. I agree with Mr Verduyckt when he says that jumps must be made at some point. The proposal you have presented here today is, in my view, the first step in that leap. You have explained what your idea is, what your vision is, after informing you. We have always said that it must be legally robust. You are putting a proposal on the table today. I hear all the parties here saying something must be done. I therefore assume that a decision can be taken quickly. I call on all parties to make that decision quickly, based on the robust proposal that you have put on the table today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u13	Mrs Buyst, I do not know if all the parties here in the Chamber are super enthusiastic. I don't think so. Madam Minister, my colleague, Mr Van Lommel, said for your answer - he is very intelligent - that you would give it some substance today. That's what you did. I am not going to comment on the technicality of your proposal with regard to that 25% of the gross margin. Mr Warmoes, of course, has already made an ideological decline. Mr Verherstraeten, I have listened very carefully to you. This story will indeed have to be done in convention. I therefore call for a balanced approach. Madam Minister, we will see whether you will be able to implement this story, your initiative, in one piece in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u14	Madam Secretary, you have been negotiating with Engie Electrabel since 18 March on the possibility of extending the lifespan of Objective 4 and Tihange 3. According to the press two weeks ago, the government was aiming for an agreement in mid-July. In March there was still the beginning of June. At RTBF, you said it would be 21 July. So it's getting exciting. You wouldn't leave on vacation either if there was no agreement. So you're risking your vacation. Engie Electrabel recently demanded in a letter that the government become co-owner of the nuclear power plants and pay part of the invoice for the nuclear waste. That goes against the negotiating mandate that has been concluded within the government. The nuclear waste bill would not be negotiated and the government would not become a co-owner. Will you confirm 21 July as the end date? How are the negotiations going? Will you be able to conclude the negotiations successfully? Where are you now? Are there any agreements on certain aspects or partial aspects? What obstacles are there that have not yet led to an agreement? Do you stick to the government's negotiating mandate that there will be no payment for the nuclear waste bill and that the government will not become co-owners of the nuclear power plants?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u15	Madam Minister, I am not under any illusion that you will say something about the negotiations yourself. That is not my main question either. That's where we're going. The date has already been postponed from June to September, then brought forward to 21 July. When will we land with that? After all, at the time of the decision to negotiate, you also made it very clear that it was absolutely important for you to reach an agreement in good time. After all, we know that a number of steps need to be taken, ranging from ordering nuclear fuel on a number of investments, study work, the EIA procedure and so on. Then the question is how flexible you are in this story. How are you doing today? What can we expect from you in that regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u16	Of course, if it depends on me, I want to conclude the negotiations with Engie as soon as possible, but not at the expense of everything. The framework is very clear, namely the mandate given by the government to me and to the Prime Minister. I keep repeating it, but it is the mandate as it is given that counts. Namely, the nuclear operator and the contributing company are responsible for decommissioning and the irradiated fuel and all costs associated with it, for all seven nuclear reactors. The Belgian authorities will not be an operator. That's what it says. You are asking me about the chances of success of the negotiations. I'm not gonna put a grade on that. Of course, we're working hard. As suggested by one of the questioners, I will not go into the further content of the talks, so as not to jeopardise the negotiations. It's always dangerous to mention a date. Let us say that a good agreement is more important than the date in itself. We will undoubtedly continue to ping-pong about the date here. That is also the only thing that can be discussed here. After all, I start from the principle that I will not say anything about the date, so as not to jeopardise the negotiations. So I'll sit this one out until there's an agreement that's good for all Belgians. Why am I doing this? Let me take a look back at the underlying reason. I do so because there are seven nuclear power stations in this country, five of which can no longer remain open. The core operator believes that they should close all 7, and he has repeated that outbursts, even when Russia invaded Ukraine. The government then recognised that the nuclear exit was not being prepared, which means that gas plants are needed. Taking into account the war in Ukraine, it was decided to have that 2 gigawatt nuclear capacity. Belgium is not the only country in Europe to review its energy mix in function of the war. Actually, it's not that big of a deal here. Our neighbouring countries Germany and the Netherlands have decided to use their coal plants. Germany is doing so because its core exit is already too far advanced to be able to reverse it. However, Belgium can. We are in a situation where successive governments have always declared that they are closing down nuclear power plants, leaving very little time left. In doing so, the core operator indicated that it targeted the closure. However, I remain of the opinion, and by extension the government, that, in the current exceptional circumstances, we should be able to rely on this two-gigawatt nuclear capacity. In this respect, we are negotiating to reach an agreement which is good for the Belgians. After all, it is in everyone's interest to ensure that this 2 gigawatt nuclear capacity is available, allowing us to speed up the energy transition and write a globally positive story. I certainly do not want to sweep your questions under the mat, because they are certainly justified. I have always said that when there is an agreement, I will be at Parliament's disposal to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u17	It was, of course, predictable that the Minister would not say much, but of course we are extremely curious. We will continue to follow it up and continue to ask questions about it, so that the Minister is encouraged. For the rest, we are certainly in favour of the opening up of such back room discussions, but all right. We will come back to that, and I wish you every success, Madam Secretary. We are curious about the end result.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u18	Madam Minister, you refer to the mandate you have agreed within the government and probably proposed to the government yourself. That is irrelevant to us because we did not agree with the mandate itself. Secondly, you point out that these are difficult discussions and that the core operator is not a asking party. However, we should not go so far back in time to go to a moment when he was a asking party. By the end of 2020, he was. At that time, the core operator contacted about all parties, cabinets and people to ask if nothing was possible. The door on the side of the government didn't open. At the time, the Prime Minister made all kinds of statements in the European Parliament to say that there was enough time, that we should not worry and that we could still do it all. This majority also voted away a motion for a resolution from my group to speak with Engie. It was too early and not necessary. So now it is said that these are difficult negotiations and that the core operator is not a asking party. This was partly caused by the refusal to speak and to negotiate. That's where the mistake was made, Madam Secretary! Moreover, Ukraine is not a new situation either. Let us be honest, when were there any questions in Europe about the supply of gas to Ukraine? That was not only in 2021, but also in 2014, 2012 and 2008! So if everyone here says that we are surprised that gas dependence could be a problem, then I fear that the energetic history of our country is known by few. Madam Minister, we will therefore continue to ask you questions, because it is extremely important that this should be done. However, I am afraid of it this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u19	Madam Minister, at the end of May, Prime Minister De Croo triumphantly announced that the European Commission was working on the Belgian proposal to introduce a price cap and/or import charges. In the meantime, nothing has happened, or we certainly haven't seen anything. That's not necessarily the same thing. But the gas price keeps rising. What is the state of play with these European plans? When will the European Commission present a comprehensive proposal? What position does Belgium defend at European level? How do you see this price ceiling and how could it enter into force? Does Belgium have any other measures at European level? Or is the European Commission itself still preparing to reduce the gas price on the stock exchanges?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u20	Madam Minister, the market for the supply of gas and electricity in the fourth quarter expects even higher prices than at the end of last year and at the beginning of this year. There are 180 euros per megawattage of gas, and more than 400 euros per MWh of electricity. This creates unrest among families and businesses. How should winter be prepared? What measures and possibilities do you see within your own powers? What can you do at European level? Previously, the starting point was to capping prices at the time the deliveries were to be stopped. However, the question is how to deal with it. Do you share the concern that this autumn the price peaks may be even higher than in the past? What additional measures do you propose and what European initiatives are being prepared to reduce the impact of these high prices?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u21	Before going into the specific questions about the price ceilings and European initiatives, I would like to mention the current gas prices in the Belgian market and how they differ from those in other countries. For several months the gas price in Belgium has been significantly lower than that in Germany and the Netherlands. On Monday 11 July, the Nord Stream 1 was shut down from Russia to Germany for maintenance. That has been discussed extensively, including in the press. In Germany the price stood at 170 euros per megawattage, and in the Netherlands 169 euros per MWh. In Belgium, this was EUR 134 per MWh, which is extremely high for all clarity. In October 2020 that was 20 euros. The price is up to 36 euros lower than our northern neighbours because Belgium imports more than what it can consume and implement. We're going through four times more than we're going through. We can't do this anymore at the moment. The pipelines, and especially the pipelines in Germany, are not large enough to carry out anymore. This has a slight impact on prices and is a major advantage for Belgium at the moment. This also points to the fact that Belgium is supplied from Norway, the United Kingdom and the overseas territories. As long as that supply continues, we will be fine in Belgium. This does not alter the fact that gas prices are high and are likely to remain high. It is now summer and winter is yet to come. These high prices are detrimental to our economy. At the request of Belgium and other Member States, the European Council of 23 and 24 June again called on the Commission, together with international partners, to halt rising energy prices, including temporary price caps on imports. Mr Wollants asked what I could do within my own powers, but it is sufficient to look at the initiatives taken by Spain and Portugal, and the national decoupling there, to establish that this has had no impact on prices in Spain and Portugal. So they have taken an initiative themselves, have been authorised by Europe, but that has not had any noticeable downward pressure on prey. In my view, therefore, doing something about price regulation within its own powers is not the most desirable approach. For one piece, we have regulated prices within our own powers, namely the social tariff, and we provide benefits, for example by means of energy cheques, which are discussed by the National Bank. However, real intervention in the price mechanism, in volatility, in order to ensure a structural price reduction, in order to get the prices of war out of it, must take place at European level. On 25 May, the European Commission set up a task force in which it, together with the Member States, worked out the modalities for the acquisition of natural gas, not only in order to prevent shortages and to cope with falling Russian gas supplies, but also to reduce prices. The European Commission hopes that a co-purchase will lead to an increased negotiating power, which will thus reduce the price. The European Commission hopes to present a concrete proposal by August. With Belgium as a country, we believe that the Commission's proposal does not provide sufficient guarantees to actually reduce the price. That is why we are calling from the outset for a price ceiling, supported by France, Spain, Greece and other Member States. From the United States, 15 bcm of extra LNG has already been allocated to the European Union. This shows that the North American market price, the so-called Henry Hub, is much lower than the EU price. Including transport costs, this is acceptable as a price reference in the context of the co-purchase. Belgium believes that the European Commission should work as quickly as possible on the operationalisation of the European gas procurement energy platform and has called for this at all levels: the administrative DG level, the Energy Councils and the European Councils. We also provide technical input. We from Belgium, for example, also at a technical level, I have also reiterated this at the Energy Council, which stated that such a proposal could also be accompanied by a priority of gas purchased through that platform, with priority access to LNG facilities, in order to develop a regulatory framework that is advantageous and interesting for market participants to contract. That platform should be operational in a concrete manner before the winter preparations of 2022-2023 commence and should be able to cover the expected Russian gap. The price of natural gas is determined by supply demand. On the one hand, we are working on the supply side through the European platform, on the other hand, we are also calling for a reduction in demand, provided that the impact on our industry and economy is as small as possible. In preparation for the coming winter, we are calling for a more coordinated European information campaign to reduce gas consumption and curb price increases. I shall come back to this in more detail later in my reply to Mr Ben Accour's question on the Energy Council. There may be additional European initiatives. On 18 July, the European Commission will propose a plan for reducing natural gas demand. This will be discussed at the extraordinary Energy Council on 26 July, where I will, of course, be present.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u22	Madam Secretary, again a lot of bleat and little wool. We are waiting for the Council on 26 July. There seems to be no sense of urgency with regard to this crisis that affects everyone to the full, not only the citizens, but also industry, self-employed and SMEs. People go on and on. We hope that something will come out.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u23	Madam Minister, the difference in parameters between, for example, Zeebrugge and the Dutch market is interesting, but at the same time the question is how citizens and businesses can benefit from it today. When looking at different contracts, it is noted that the contracts indexing on TTF or on ZTP Zeebrugge are not so far apart from each other in terms of price. A lot of the contracts people have today are indexed on the basis of the parameter from the Netherlands, which is much higher. The big question is whether citizens today receive a discount on natural gas prices in relation to what is happening on the Dutch and German markets. I fear that this is not the case and I do not think that I will check the contracts that are cheapest today, all being indexed on the Zeebrugge parameter. The question is whether the citizen can benefit from this, because these indexation parameters are, of course, different. You say that I should not ask you to do certain things within your own powers, and you give the example of Spain. However, you can also do other things than just intervene on the price. In the past, moreover, you yourself referred to the fact that there are other possibilities. That is why the government has reduced VAT on, among other things, solar boilers and solar panels. This does not have the desired effect today, because the market has been so heavily over-questioned and because we in Europe are also unable to collect enough devices to have an impact on this. There may also be steps to be taken there. In particular, I wonder how our citizens and businesses will have to resist these prices, because the European Commission's prediction is that prices could not fall until the autumn of 2024. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u24	Madam Secretary, you travelled to London on 1 July for the Belgian-British conference, which was opened by the competent British Secretary of State. The conference followed the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding between the United Kingdom and Belgium on energy cooperation. According to your own communication, on 1 July 2022 you had discussions on high energy prices, energy security and gas supply. You referred to that earlier. The MOU signed earlier is intended, inter alia, to develop the energy interconnection between the participants, for the efficient use of the infrastructure and for cooperation in that field. Could you explain your discussions in more detail? Have the working groups announced in March, as part of the Nautilus project, been started in cooperation with network operators and regulators? Have the announced working groups on decarbonisation cooperation, for example on hydrogen and CCS, already started?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u25	Indeed, Mr Ravyts, I went to the Belgian-British conference on 1 July 2022, following the MOU with the United Kingdom. Given that the United Kingdom is no longer part of the European Union, and given the interests of our two countries, including energy, it is an important choice for this government to continue to pursue a good bilateral relationship. Within the European framework, and the agreement on what can or cannot be done with the UK, we will continue to pursue a good bilateral relationship. Both for gas, with the connector, and for electricity, with the Nemolink, we are connected. Nemo is, by the way, the most performant connector for electricity. In this context, our initiatives fit with the United Kingdom, the MOU, the conference and also the recent economic mission. In the margins of that conference, I did indeed have a meeting with my colleague, Secretary of State Quarteng. His title is misleading, rather at the level of a minister. We have, of course, talked about the security of supply situation in both our countries, including in the context of disruptions to the Interconnector UK. We have both reiterated our solidarity with each other in the event of a crisis. We have also discussed the short- and medium-term challenges of securing our supplies, creating a functioning market and achieving the energy transition, in particular the great wind objective and the will of both countries to achieve a second interconnection. You asked about the different workflows. A concrete work plan has indeed been drawn up, for those identified areas of action, between the administrations concerned, before extending the set-up further. We depart from what we wrote in the MOU. In this context, there was also a first consultation at the end of May. A subsequent consultation is scheduled for the end of the month. At a technical level, unlike our administrations, for example between the system operators, there is also extensive consultation on the concrete projects, i.e. Nautilus on the one hand and the performance of the gas interconnector, on the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u26	Madam Minister, consultations with the United Kingdom are particularly important for this country. You have given the examples. I will ask you once in a while about further progress over the next few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u27	Madam Minister, you were present at the round table organised by skeyes on 29 June 2022, which apparently intends to develop additional measures to mitigate the obstacles to the installation of wind turbines with regard to aviation safety, without compromising the safety and efficiency of air traffic. I am West Fleming, so I know very well what this is about. There are long plans to place additional turbines along the E40 between Gistel and the French border. This is important for the airport of Ostend. Perhaps you will answer me that I have to ask this question to your fellow Minister, Mr Gilkinet, who is responsible for skeyes, but apparently there will be an action plan in the autumn which should also strengthen coordination with wind energy operators. The federal government has awarded skeyes a grant of EUR 6.75 million to assist in the necessary investments to increase the space available for wind turbines. Madam Secretary, what is the precise substantive role of you, your administration and/or your cabinet, in drawing up the action plan? Is there a design and if so, what are the main lines of it? What contribution have you and your cabinet and/or administration made in that regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u28	Mr Ravyts, in the light of the conflict in Ukraine, with a view to accelerating the energy transition, the nuclear cabinet of 18 March decided to reduce the existing thresholds for the deployment of renewable energy by consulting with skeyes and Defense. Thresholds are defined as distances to radars, altitude limits, area and installation of exclusion zones. An amount of EUR 13.5 million was also allocated to cover the necessary adjustments to the radars. That amount was evenly distributed between civil aviation, skeyes, and military aviation, Defense. The aim is to achieve better coordinated use by both economic sectors of our airspace, without, however, compromising aviation safety. Given the importance of installing additional renewable energy capacity for our geopolitical independence and security of supply in our country, it is clear that I am involved in that process. In addition to my colleagues, Minister Ludvine Dedonder and Deputy Prime Minister Georges Gilkinet, I myself, skeyes and the sector organisation of renewable energy are present in Belgium. Discussions are taking place in a constructive atmosphere and should lead to the identification of possible adjustments and a path towards their implementation. Such processes take their time, of course. The adjustments should also be made in a rational manner. Some inspiration for the height limitation and distances to be applied can also be sought in other Member States. Given the urgency of the climate crisis, reinforced by the energy price crisis caused by the Russian invasion of Ukraine, I expect to see the first results after the summer. All actors who can contribute to halting the flow of money to the Russian war cash and ensuring security of supply should assume their responsibility in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u29	Of course, they are small steps in the light of the energy transition, but they must be taken in the light of the long-standing problems. I am convinced, and perhaps we differ on this point, that our specific geographical limitations, especially in the wind province, West Flanders, still require realism.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u30	Madam Minister, just before the summer recess, I would like to ask you about a state of play regarding the preparation of the regulatory framework for the implementation of the law of 12 May 2019 and the organisation of an offshore tender. We know that there are a lot of actions on the agenda, but I will not list them all. I am referring to the actions separate from the preliminary studies, but I will refer immediately to what has already happened, namely the public consultation on the tender. What feedback did you receive from the sector and from all interested parties, including market players and environmental organisations, on the criteria proposed for the process of calling for tenders for the Princess Elisabeth Zone? A compensation scheme would also be developed for the holders of a domain concession in the event that the extension of the MOG could not be put into effect in whole or in part on the date set. When developing the tender procedure, particular attention would be paid to civic participation, in particular the involvement of renewable energy communities, in accordance with the provisions of the European Energy Directive, which we will be starting in this gremium after the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u31	Madam Minister, within the framework of the agreement on the extension of Objective 4 and Tihange 3, a number of other issues were also agreed, such as the advance development of offshore winds. The first windmills would be operational by 2027. At the same time, there is a whole series of preliminary studies, but for us it is not clear what the exact state of affairs is. There has been communication on certain delivery dates, but they have already passed, for example the second phase of the archaeological study and the first phase of the geological study. Nothing has been reported on that for the time being. There are also the regulatory steps, in particular the various royal and ministerial decisions. There too, the state of affairs is not clear. Where are the preliminary studies scheduled to be completed? Are those results being communicated? How is the regulatory process progressing? Which hijacks are to be rounded there? Does the current timing allow for the realization by 2027? Or should we catch up?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, a consultation document has been prepared for the tender Wind at sea. This consultation with the market took place earlier this year. There were over 60 answers. The final document containing these answers will be published on the website of the FPS Economy during the summer. This feedback from the sector further refines and elaborates the tender system proposal in the KB Tender, which will be submitted to the government in 2022. On the basis of the Electricity Act, the KB Tender takes civil participation into account. It is therefore my wish to give citizens equal access to Wind at sea and to enable renewable energy communities to compete on an equal footing and participate actively in this tender. Just as with the first Wind on sea projects, a KB MOG2 and a KB Liability is being developed to define what guarantees can be given in connection with the grid connection. These legal initiatives are also further developed and planned according to the timing communicated via the website of the FPS Economy. The MB Cables is also in preparation to arrive at a classification of the Princess Elisabeth zone in different lots. The first reading is expected after the summer. However, the final MB Cables is only scheduled in 2024, when all the information is available from the preliminary studies that are added to this MB. As far as the status of the preliminary studies is concerned, this will be made public on the website of the FOD. The results of the UXO desktop can be found here, as well as the archaeological desktop study. The geological desktop study will first be certified before it is placed online. The geophysical part of the geophysical and geotechnical field research has been completed. The data are currently being processed and will also be certified before they are placed online. The geotechnical field study runs until autumn 2022. All preliminary studies will be completed by early 2024. This planning will be kept up-to-date by the FPS Economy, but will of course also be reviewed at the time when a decision is taken on land grid reinforcement and on the projects Ventilus and la Boucle du Hainaut at regional level. These are important milestones that have an impact on the entire plan for wind at sea. So if you ask me whether the timing can be maintained, then these decisions have a significant impact on that. The bottomline is that, of course, we are working hard to get ahead in this dossier. Just so we're clear, the studies take time. It is, of course, a good thing that such study work is taking place, and we are doing everything we can to achieve the desired timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u33	Madam Minister, thank you for your comprehensive reply with a state of play on the various RB's and RB's, of course, also very important for the concessions: the ministerial decision on cables. Thank you also for the issue of certification of the data from studies already carried out. As far as Ventilus is concerned, last week there was some consternation about statements by the competent Flemish minister, from which I could conclude that it is actually possible to decide. For that minister it would be best that they decide quickly and that there will be no elections in a near future. I say that without gloating, it's just reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u34	Madam Secretary, thank you for the update. The reason I am asking the question about the preliminary studies is because we are waiting for a number of things that should have already been carried out. You say the archaeological study has already been published. However, that only applies to phase 1. Phase 2 had to be completed in June, but no data are yet available on the web site. Regarding the geological study, phase 1 had to be completed in February 2022. We haven't seen any data on that either. You say that all this still needs to be certified, but I wonder when this will be the case and when we will have the data available? We want to make sure, of course, that there are no delays within the powers of the federal government in this area. The remark about Ventilus was to be expected, but that does not relieve you of the duty to deal with what you own. We ask questions about that. I am not entirely sure whether we have an adequate answer to the question as to where this story is now. I am sure we will discuss this with you after the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u35	Debates of the European Parliament 55029469C by Mrs Dierick is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u36	Madam Secretary, I questioned you on this matter 14 days ago. You were of the opinion that you would have received the opinion of the regulator CREG in good time, if that were before 1 July, opinion related to the second part of the bill, namely on the energy standard, which was adopted in February, and with which you would be working together with the proposals on the basis of the benchmark study to address the unaccountable differences in energy costs compared to our neighbouring countries. I suppose that will happen in the budget negotiations. Did you actually receive the advice? Have you had it evaluated yet? Will there be additional energy costs measures this year to safeguard the competitiveness of businesses and consumers' purchasing power? Will the instrument of excise duty be used for this purpose? Will everything be focused on budget negotiations 2023 in August/September? Or will measures be taken sooner, given the Dutch forward market? You mentioned a price of 139 euros per megawatt hour, which is already very high, and Mr Wollants even mentioned 170 euros per megawatt hour. I shouldn't think the price would increase in the next few weeks. I'd like to get an update.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u37	Thank you, Mr Ravyts, for your question. I did indeed receive the opinion of the CREG before the expiry date, 1 July 2022. This opinion concerns the competitiveness and purchasing power analysis published by FORBEG on 15 May. This analysis was based on energy invoices from the month of January and compares the situation of the Belgian energy users with that of other countries. On the basis of the analysis, it was established that there were no federal aspects at the origin of the large differences in competitiveness. Moreover, it is of course always important to keep comparing the invoices of competitors abroad. That is why, together with the CREG, we are always comparing the most recent available prices. After all, we do not only see the high prices in our country. Of course, high energy prices, including high gas prices, are variable. One photo taken in January, doesn't say everything. We will soon begin discussions with the government on the measures proposed by the CREG in its opinion. The government has already decided on many measures within the framework of the social tariff and VAT reduction. The line taken by the CREG in its opinion is one that I follow 100%. We strive for an affordable invoice for everyone and a market in which the consumer understands what he is paying for. I will also continue to follow that line, because I am convinced of its long-term impact. It is too early to indicate whether additional measures are needed and whether any excise duties should be applied. That gives me the opportunity to refer to the question previously raised about the price ceilings and their own powers. I cannot do price regulation or impose price ceilings myself, but of course we can take other measures within our own powers. For example, the opinion includes elements which can also be found in the National Bank's report, such as the need for fixed contracts, the social rate, the VAT reform and the excise reform. The CREG formulates an opinion on the PwC study and focuses on customers in a vulnerable situation, in particular non-social tariff families, and SMEs connected to the low voltage grid, as the regulator considers that these two groups deserve special attention. Customers with the social tariff are well protected, which is confirmed time and time again, but the same applies to customers connected to the high voltage grid, because they can enjoy the energy standard. Remember that it is a comparison with neighbouring countries to find an answer to the question of whether there is a competitiveness problem that can be attributed to factors in Belgium. The CREG proposals are not new either. How can we improve the social rate? Does that have to be made structural? Should this be extended structurally? What about that group which is just not eligible for the SOCTAR, which applies to the group with the BIM Statute? Should we re-enter fixed price contracts? Today, it is still established that 60% of customers have a fixed price contract, even though it is no longer offered. The mix of long and short term contracts remains important. It is certainly an opinion that we can get started with and which is also in line with the report of the National Bank and with previous opinions, which will serve as input for the budget debate, where purchasing power, in particular the energy bill, will once again be at the heart of the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u38	As I thought, it is also the logic itself, it becomes a nutrient for the budget negotiations, in particular in terms of competitiveness and purchasing power. I didn't check it anymore, but at least the advice wasn't online ten days ago. Mr President, through the committee secretariat, could we perhaps address the question to the CREG? If the opinion is not online, it is important for Parliament to have access to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u39	Madam Minister, your colleague Mr Jetten in the Netherlands confirmed that he had asked his German colleague to see to what extent German nuclear energy could still be used in the coming winter and whether Germany could continue nuclear energy for a little longer. That was not a formal question, but of course an informative question to know what is possible. We also have a programme for the closure of the Objective 3 reactor by 1 October. That will also take 1000 megawatts of nuclear energy out of the system, energy that will then have to be generated elsewhere, so you may have received a similar question from Minister Jetten. It has been suggested in the past that, subject to the approval of the FANC, an extension of the service life of certain plants should be considered for a very short period. For example, Objective 1 and 2 discussed a three-month extension until after the winter period. Eventually it was wisely decided to keep those reactors open until 2025, but at least it was on the table and was even in the coalition agreement. What effect do you expect in terms of gas consumption and electricity prices from the phasing-out and closure of Objective 3 by 1 October? Were you also approached by Minister Jetten to verify the technical feasibility of a temporary postponement of this? What would be technically necessary to allow that plant to produce a winter longer? Was that piste considered by the government? What elements played a role in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u40	Mr Wollants, as far as your second question is concerned, I was not approached by Minister Jetten. He didn't talk to me about that. I saw him on the margins of the Transport, Telecommunications and Energy Council. That question was not asked at the embassy level or at the technical level either. It is not, of course, because the question is not asked, that it does not exist or that there is no thought. Your question consists of two aspects. I will answer the technical part first and then answer your first question. The technical challenges associated with this, in particular nuclear safety, must of course be borne in mind. Objective 3 is currently entering the last two and a half months of its last cycle. In any case, it is not a question of simply extending the cycle for a number of months, because there is no fuel for it. A rewording of the demand may require the plant to be shut down first in order to restart it afterwards. In this case, a number of aspects should be taken into account. When rebooting, the drilling concentration in the cooling water, which is almost zero at the end of a cycle, must be taken into account, which means that there is a more limited room for manoeuvre to regulate neutron absorption. In addition, consideration must be given to the poisoning of the reactor core by the fission products xenon and samarium, which absorb the neutrons and whose concentration may increase after a stop. Also important is the burn-up of the nuclear fuel present, which influences the reactivity. The operator has currently taken into account the fact that this cycle is the last one, which has an impact on the composition of the core, which is therefore not the same as in the case of a normal reload. Of course, that fact also plays a role if it is considered to carry out a reload in order to insert an additional cycle. The nuclear fuel required for this purpose is not freely available for sale. The purchase of that fuel and the production of the fuel rods is a process that takes easily two years. An additional aspect to take into account is that the final maintenance of the plant was carried out with the final closure of Objective 3. Of course, I do not need to remind you that Objective 3 is one of the two reactors with hydrogen inclusions. At the time, in 2014, this plant could be restarted after extensive research for a safe operation for 40 years. The safety study therefore includes a date for cut-off. In itself, therefore, the question of Objective 3 is not as simple as it seems at first sight. First of all, the issue needs to be considered in the light of nuclear safety, which is the responsibility of the operator. The initiative lies at a certain point in time with the operator, always under the control of the FANC, which, as an independent nuclear safety regulator, monitors nuclear safety. As chairman of the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety, I have certainly not told you any new things in this area. This does not seem realistic to me, however, as I said, the evaluation of a temporary postponement of the cessation of Objective 3 in the light of the technical elements is actually due to the nuclear safety regulator. You referred to Germany. I have been informed that there was no possibility in Germany either. My colleague, Mr Habeck, was particularly advanced at administrative level. It was already hanging against the closure, so it was no longer possible to reverse this. I'm confronted with that technical reality. Your question is relevant, because of course we have to deal with the consequences. You asked about my expectations in terms of gas consumption and electricity prices. At first, it's not one-on-one. We must not assume that the full production of this plant will be replaced by the gas plants. We must take into account the normal functioning of the market and the optimization, which initially place the cheapest forms of production first. This is done for the entire production park in the Central Western European zone, which is linked through day-ahead trade. In any case, the impact of the closure of Objective 3 on the gas and electricity levels in terms of price will be much more limited than the foreseen standstill of 15 gigawatts of the French nuclear park in October 2022, which is a great concern for us. In addition, we see that in France, Germany and the Netherlands, coal-fired power stations are being re-used. Germany intends to use the coal-fired power plants that would be closed down in 2022 and 2023. It's about ten gigawatts or a third. Thirty gigawatts of coal power stations will be back online in Germany. Excuse me, a third is wrong. With the restart, it will cover a total of thirty gigawatts from coal production in Germany. In the Netherlands, the four gigawatts of coal power stations can now run at full capacity rather than at maximum 35%. In March 2022 the closed central Emile Huchet restarted in France. That means 600 megawatts. The Cordemais plant* of 1,200 megawatts is extended until 2024. These are, of course, not choices to be welcomed, but they are motivated by a lack of alternatives. We do not have the alternative of a coal power plant. We no longer have a working coal power station or a power station in which we can burn coal. We do have the alternative to using 2 gigawatts of nuclear capacity extended. The German and Dutch decisions date back a few weeks. The ENTSO-E and the ENTSOG are currently processing those sensitivities to see what this means for gas consumption and security of supply. This will lead to a new assessment in the course of October. We prepare the winter maximum and for that we indeed look at everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u41	If the committee members allow me to do so, I would like to say something before I give them the floor for the replies. Madam Minister, thank you for this very interesting explanation. However, I have a comment to make. I also follow the German press and I read that a number of nuclear operators were prepared to restart an already closed power station and extend the life of another, but I may have read it wrong. Mr Habeck has chosen to reopen the coal power stations. Where there is no will, there is no way. That is a political choice in Germany.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u42	Sorry, that's not a political choice in Germany. What the operator in Germany says is on behalf of the German operator. I shall continue with what you have said, namely that the German operator has offered it. Let me explain the way in which we work in nuclear matters. The operator says what he wants to do and then that becomes the subject of assessment by the nuclear regulator. I find that the operator says we can't. This is also the subject of the regulator's assessment. It's the regulator who decides. In Germany - which was published on the website of the German government - the regulator said that it cannot be done. That was an assessment by the security authority. That is what I am saying here, this is an assessment by the security authority. I have given you a number of technical elements which have been communicated to me, but as a minister responsible for security of supply and not responsible for nuclear safety, I can only proceed with the assessment of what comes out of the discussions between the operator and the regulator. Mr Wollants has asked questions about Objective 3. What I've been getting here doesn't seem to be the kind of thing that could happen. I oppose the fact that this is a political decision by Mr Habeck, who has already said that if he could do it, he would have done it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u43	Mr President, I would like to make a brief comment. Earlier, I wanted to intervene. You told me no.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u44	I asked for the deal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u45	Yeah, okay, but I can do the same next time then. I'll hold him back. Of course, I do not agree at all with what is said here. It doesn't work that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u46	All right, next time I will put three questions on this subject, so that we can turn it into a topical debate. Those are details, this committee could do something like that. Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. In my question, I have already assumed that there must be an agreement between the FANC, no matter what is decided. It always is. That is the basic condition for me. However, I note that when it came to Objective 1, serious consideration was given to introducing a cessation during the summer period, in order to be able to go longer. I therefore believe that there could be opportunities, but the willingness to examine this must of course also be present. At that time, a safety analysis was made for Objective 3. In an opinion of two years ago, the SCK reminded us of this once again. That analysis indicated that even the current safety case led to the plant being able to go crazy up to the age of 45 on the basis of the studies that were carried out at that time. I do not think that winter is the biggest problem there. The question is simply whether one also wants to effectively consider asking this question to the operator. Do we want to continue in this way? After all, we will have to look at the impact in detail. You have rightly pointed out that it will not all be gas plants that continue to run. There's a lot of coal and lignite. We shouldn't be happy about that. Austria even wants to convert a number of gas plants into coal plants. The question is whether prices will remain low when stocks of gas fall. For lignite it is different because the Germans decide their own price for lignite. There is no international market for lignite. For coal, things are slightly different. Much of this coal comes from Russia, like natural gas, perhaps even in larger quantities when it is converted into percentages for the European market. I would therefore like to look closely at the possibilities. Today is the time to give instructions or at least ask the right questions. You now assume that the operator does not want to. It is not clear to me whether the government has asked the question to do so. Did they say on their own initiative that they didn't want this? Has anyone come to you with the message that they didn't want to keep running this winter? Or was there a question asked? It is not clear to me why this answer has been given. I'm trying to find out more.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u47	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u48	Mr President, I will retain your good jurisprudence. The next time I want to speak, I will ask all colleagues if they agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u49	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u50	I'm not angry at all, don't be afraid! I would just like to say that I listened very carefully to Mr Wollants in his questions and reply, what you yourself said and the minister's answers. The substance of the case is always the same; if the operator wishes or expresses, at any time, either at the request of the government or on his own initiative, the desire to obtain an extension from the regulator, his application is considered at that time, and the whole system is set in motion. That's the bottom line of the case. All the rest is bla-bla. In Switzerland, for example, because they had not carried out the chemical operations that made the tanks unfit for the production of nuclear electricity, they re-launched one of their oldest nuclear power plants, because the need arose and the imperatives of energy supply and independence joined the need to do what they were doing. It is the same in Germany but, unfortunately, in Germany, there is first an ideological decision, and they are imprisoned in this ideological decision. If the three or six reactors are still able to produce and have not undergone irreversible operations, they can of course be extended, provided that the operator agrees. In this case, the operator has been sufficiently abused or raped, with trials at the key, so as not to want to be of good grace at the moment. And that is another situation. That is the truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u51	It's obvious to me. The question is, what are we going to do with that? There are, after all, different views within the government, which come up here in this committee's regularly limp zone.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u52	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u53	We have heard from the sector that there are some things that could lead to problems with the gradual elimination of the largest consumers. A survey would be organised among the market players to see how this could be done. At the same time, we are also concerned about the economic story. One can switch off a particular player, but if that then gives a chain reaction to all possible customers who then also have to stop their activities, resulting in temporary unemployment and that sort of thing, then the question is whether simply looking at the decreased amount of gas is the right choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u54	Mr President, we have heard from the sector that there are a number of issues that could lead to problems with a gradual cut-off from the biggest consumers. One would organise a survey with the market players to see how that could be done. At the same time, we are concerned that this also includes an economic aspect. One can switch off a particular player, but if this leads to a chain reaction for customers who then also have to stop their activities, resulting in temporary unemployment, then the question is whether it is the right choice to simply look at the decreased amount of gas. My specific question is how far you stand today with the refinement of the plan, which I think should be absolutely ready. Is it clear to the industries concerned when they will be able to obtain the necessary clarity from you?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u55	Mr Wollants, first of all we are working on an update of the emergency plan. In the case of electricity, we're talking about a switch-off plan. Gas is about an emergency plan. This is much wider and provides for various measures to avoid the trend towards a switch-off. As far as content is concerned, gas supplies are guaranteed today, but the instability in which President Putin has poured Europe forces Belgium to prepare for all scenarios. That is why, in April 2022, I provided an initial update of the gas emergency plan. It is that update that is currently being refined by my administration in close cooperation with Fluxys, within the framework of the European regulation. In order to do so, we have conducted a broad consultation at more than a thousand companies in the country. The aim is to take into account their reality and their internal emergency plans, in particular as regards the time they would need to implement certain measures of the plan. The online survey supported by several business federations has been particularly successful. More than 50% of the contacted companies have answered the various questions. The results of this consultation are currently being thoroughly analysed. So I will not hesitate to return to you once the analysis has been completed. The next step is the adjustments to the gas emergency plan. That will be discussed within the federal government. The adjustments will also be submitted to the regions responsible for energy before being submitted for an opinion to the Council of State. This update process will result in the announcement of the new emergency plan in September 2022. In the meantime, the consultation of various companies as well as other stakeholders continues. It is important that we consult and stay as much as possible. One questioning was to reach everyone. But that does not prevent us and the route from responding to serious situations that would arise. The current consultations aim at the right understanding, so that we can refine in function of certain companies that can or cannot reduce their consumption. This way we can avoid announcing a light emergency plan. I hope with you that we will never need that. But it is my responsibility to prepare it, because security of supply must not take risks. You referred, now and before, to the economic side of the story. By preparing yourself as best you can, you can reduce the social and economic impact of the current crisis. The emergency plan is one link in that. Your question, and Mr Ravyts' previous questions, are also linked. You have to put the puzzle with different measures, because the social and economic impact is already very large. But this is mainly the result of the crisis itself, not the emergency plan. Until March 31, there was no emergency plan. Nor can I imagine what the consequences would be if we were to fight the current crisis without such a plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u56	The plan does indeed consist of more facets than simply reducing consumption in a number of companies. The way it is carried out can have an additional impact on top of the energy crisis. The plan has to solve cases. We must ensure that certain sectors are not affected so badly that there is a chain reaction in our entire economic fabric, because then we are even further away from home. I am somewhat surprised to hear you say that there was no emergency plan before 31 March. At the beginning of your answer, you said that you have applied a refinement to the plan, but in order to refine something, there has to be something. From the industry I hear that there was an emergency plan in the period 2007-2008. So I don't understand why you're saying there was nothing before 31 March. Maybe that plan wasn't functional and it wasn't adapted to the situation, it could be. I notice two slopes in your answer, of which there will undoubtedly only be one, or of which I do not fully understand the refinement today. In a future question, I may be able to understand it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u57	Madam Secretary, 23 May was the last date on which he could be applied as a member of the future Executive Committee of the CREG. You know it's been a very long process to get out. It took several years between the idea of renewing the Management Committee and the possibility of putting it into effect effectively. It also required six or seven parliamentary questions before they got out. Now the part of the candidatures has already been completed. The question is what the rest of the timeline looks like. When can we expect the CREG to have a new composed management committee worthy of that name?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u58	The follow-up to the procedure is quite simple. We are following the procedure laid down in the Royal Decree of 13 July 2012. Article 7, because that is where we have now arrived, stipulates that Selor will register the candidates in the group "suitable" or in the group "unsuitable." That registration shall be justified. Candidates shall be informed of their registration in one of the two groups. The registration is given to me by Selor in the form of a list of candidates who have been found fit for the vacant relationship. Next, I need to organise an additional discussion with the candidates of the "suitable" group in order to compare them with regard to their specific competences, their relational skills and their leadership skills in relation to the job description and the competence profile of the vacant position. I therefore assume that, after the summer recess, we will be able to make progress on the appointment of the CREG Management Committee. In other words, I'm waiting for Selor's report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u59	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I think it is particularly important that the end result is there. Last time, we were hit at this stage, with suitable and unsuitable candidates, including an extra round with those candidates. After that they crashed and had to start again. I hope we get to the end now. We must, of course, consider what else might be possible in this area. I look forward to the autumn, where things should be organized.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u60	Madam Minister, the last question concerns the preliminary draft EMD Act. We talked about this in April, and then you said that you were busy with the second reading, the second discussion in the government, and that there were no bottlenecks. We are now a few months later and I am therefore somewhat surprised that no progress has yet been made. Is the government still in the middle of that second meeting? What is the exact state of affairs? Where is the calf bound, to say it with a proverb?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u61	In any case, this committee will not lack legislative work. The second reading has been completed, and the matter has been dealt with within the government. It is now before Parliament. "Soon" says here. In September it will be discussed in committee, in the autumn. I'm looking forward to discussing that design here. It is about many aspects, many choices as well. It's a conversion, but for me it's more than just a conversion. For example, it is also about the market model, about renewable energy communities, of course also about wind at sea... So it is really an important design.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u62	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I'm looking forward to it. I'm already glad that your employees have written down "once in a while" and not "unfortunately." It is more likely that we will actually see it here, but I have to say that there has been a very long time between the first reading and the final discussion in Parliament. I think that first reading was completed more than a year ago. I am therefore very curious to see what will eventually be put on paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u63	That's true, and you're right about that, but I don't have to draw a picture, do I? There is a comprehensive opinion from the Council of State on the EMD Act and any amendments we make to it. We've looked at that thoroughly, we've discussed it extensively with the Regions... This is of a different order than the ratification of KBs. Okay, that may be the other extreme, but at least there is a lot going on and we have chosen to finish all the open points well, knowing that there is also food and drink for Parliament. So it's got to be totally fine, and that's it now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u64	It is also true that the design would have been there perhaps two months earlier if there was no energy crisis. However, we must do it with the hands that exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u65	I look forward to it, Madam Secretary. A lot of time and effort has been put into this, so I expect sublime work. We shall look into that when the texts are available. We shall then see within what framework you have built up your reasoning.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic857x.u66	That is on the agenda for the meeting of 20 September.
