ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u1	Minister, you will probably have seen or read last week's Pano report on fraud in the construction sector. There came a number of poignant stories to the surface: people who were fooled by crooked contractors who paid tens of thousands of euros in advance, but the works didn't come into the house. Once the contractors had made their move home, they often went bankrupt fraudulently and just started a new business, and then do the same again. That's not new. That's something that's been around for a long time, but the victims stay in the cold. They are not only victims, but in the end, as the report has shown, they also feel abandoned by the Justice Department. Those are financial dramas, those are human dramas that continue to occur. A new company law has already been developed, but it will continue to be implemented even after the adjustments. Perhaps even a little easier because the second chance has been put forward a little bit more. That was a very good idea, but it might even help such practices. However, the legislation already provides for a number of levers to act against this, Minister. If there is a conviction, which very often does not happen to these crimes because of the lack of staff in the police and the public prosecutors, this type of crime can be banned by the courts. Of course, when a professional ban is issued, it must also be followed up, but there too it seems to go wrong. In one arrondissement, this succession is quite reasonable, but not at all. You are always talking about zero tolerance, Minister. We know where this is actually the case: in the case of traffic fines, in the case of shoplifting now too. That is good, because smaller crimes also need to be tackled, but the contrast is great with things like this, where people with an empty bank account are left behind and no action is taken by the Justice Department. That's kind of poignant. Hence my questions, Minister. Are you aware of any serious problems in which a lack of people and resources in the justice system gives the business community the opportunity to plunge family after family into a hopeless situation? Are there any reinforcements planned for the judicial services? Also for the services working on such matters? Mr Minister, do you think that legislative changes are necessary or useful to prevent such crimes? I am thinking of bankruptcy legislation and company law, which had already been relaxed. Perhaps we should consider whether this legislation can be implemented. I make a suggestion, namely the linking of the professional ban to the crossroads bank. Mr Minister, the following is very important, because that is something you could do in the short term. Do you know that when a professional ban is imposed, that ban is properly enforced in one arrondissement, while in another arrondissement little or no attention is paid to it? Are you planning to meet this, for example by sending a directive, so that more uniformity can be achieved in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u2	Madam President, Minister, in the Pano report of 2 February 2022, it was revealed that not only does bankruptcy fraud continue to occur frequently in the construction sector, but also that it often repeats itself, especially to the detriment of vulnerable victims. For example, a case was found in which a contractor could go bankrupt twenty times and thus convict victims over and over again. The magistrate and the curator who spoke in the report did not only put their finger on the wound, but also offered solutions. For example, they pointed out the following points of pain. Firstly, there is no adequate control of the outlawed trade bans. Secondly, there is no database for private individuals in which they can check whether brokers are bona fide. Thirdly, the bankruptcy law has been so relaxed in recent years that abuse by malicious contractors has increased. Fourthly, too much has been saved on capable detectives over the past few years, although they pay themselves back because they make money to the State. For us too, Minister, it is logical that a subcontractor should be given a second chance after bankruptcy. However, bankruptcy must not be a way of repeating fraud over and over again. For Vooruit, the company court must be able to play on the ball much shorter. In the event of bankruptcy with serious errors by the contractor, a professional ban should be issued more quickly. The thresholds for this need to be removed. The curator must also be able to claim such an appeal. Finally, a public database should also be developed and compliance with a professional ban should be monitored. That's obvious. That is why I have the following questions to ask you. The European Restructuring Directive will soon have to be transposed. Will you use that momentum to change the legislation so that the threshold for both the parolee, the curator and the judge will be reduced to apply for and rule out a professional ban? Secondly, a database of professional bans linked to the KBO does not require any major new technical structures. Will you work on that? If so, in what timing will that happen? Thirdly, and finally, what will you do within your powers to ensure in the short term that bankruptcy fraud is actually dealt with?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u3	Mrs Dierick is not yet here, for her question No. 55024846C.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u4	Madam President, my answer contains four elements: the actions of the judiciary and the complexity of the cases, the administrative bans, the importance of prevention and the business courts and the protection of consumers. First, I'll deal with the complexity of the files. The fraud in question is not, strictly speaking, a fraud in bankruptcy but a fraud in which an advance is collected by a contractor who is aware that he will not or will not carry out the requested works in full. Article 497 of the Criminal Code requires the use of what is called tricky tricks to prove a scam. The collection of an advance by an entrepreneur who then goes bankrupt is not, in itself, a crime, as that can happen to any bona fide failure. The bankruptcy, which can have many causes, is used by malicious entrepreneurs as a defence against the prosecution. The knowledge element required by the entrepreneur that he will not or will not carry out the works correctly makes the burden of proof more complex and also complicates its prosecution. That said, there are an average of 500 sentences every year for fraudulent bankruptcy or inability, and an average of 370 injunctions are imposed. We're gonna strengthen that. Justice frees more than 3 million euros, including for the recruitment of tax substitutes and experts. These are 36 additional persons, 6 tax judges, 12 clerks and 6 experts, and 6 tax substitutes and 6 experts for the Office. In addition, we also invest in the criminal execution investigation with 6 additional substitutes, 12 experts and 6 assistants. The second part is the prosecution of the crimes. It is true that the prosecution of these crimes is hampered by a lack of data exchange today between Justice, the FPS Economy and the other actors of the administrative bans imposed by the correctional court. In practice, there is insufficient follow-up to the administrative bans imposed. There is not enough to prevent such crooked entrepreneurs from committing new facts. Both in the context of the anti-fraud action plan of the College for the fight against tax and social fraud and in the context of the transposition of the directive to which Mr Segers refers, my services are working on a central register of administrative bans which will enable better control to be exercised in order to avoid the possibility for stromens and persons who have been given a strong professional ban to be appointed as directors. With a new database of professional bans, we will address the lack of information exchange. There will also be a legal framework for us to prepare a draft law for the European Parliament in 2022. The technical analysis of this is being prepared. The aim is to give important partners access to this information, such as the FPS Economy, the police, social security and notaries. They are an important link or control in the creation of new companies or in the appointment of new directors. The database will also be accessible to the public, so that a consumer or a trading partner can protect themselves from people who have been banned from administration through a simple search and thus falsely imagine themselves as a representative of a company. In addition to the professional bans imposed by the correctional court, our legislation also allows company courts to impose professional bans in the context of a bankruptcy file. We want to encourage this more. In the context of the transposition of the Restructuring Directive, repairs to Book XX of the Economic Law Code will be carried out. Indeed, the current text contains uncertainties which make it more difficult for a company court to impose a professional ban. A draft law for this purpose will be submitted to Parliament in the coming months. The transposition of the Restructuring Directive will indeed be used to make the necessary adjustments to Article 229 of that Book XX. Indeed, a number of prosecutors and corporate judges have pointed out that the current legal texts contain uncertainties which hinder the imposition of professional and administrative prohibitions in the event of bankruptcy. We take the suggestions of the field to heart. We have already started to make the necessary adjustments. In addition, it will be proposed that the curators and prosecutors will be able to appeal to the company court in the ordinary or early closure of the bankruptcy if there were apparent gross errors or a lack of cooperation with the curator. The third part deals with prevention. Business courts are a crucial link in bankruptcies in which the Chambers of Commerce have the task of early detection of companies in bankruptcy. If the detection goes better, fraudulent entrepreneurs cannot stay under the radar for years. We provide for a strengthening of company courts for this year by 61 persons, judges, referenda and assistants. 27 people have already started to do so. 27 vacancies were thus already filled. We are therefore going to give better tools to track down these companies. You know that we have recently adopted a law that allows them to request information from the CAP (Central Contact Point), which allows them to better understand the entire financial situation of the company. There is also a recent mechanism, namely economic flashing lights. These are the famous Articles 20.21 and 20.23 of the Code of Economic Law. On the basis of those Articles, the chambers of undertakings in difficulty may, on the basis of a set of data, identify firms in financial difficulties and then take the necessary measures. Those economic flashing lights have been processed in an automated way in what was previously referred to as KNICLI since a KB of 2021, but what we call Business Alert. This tool is successfully used in corporate courts. In 2021, there were no less than 36,000 consultations via that new instrument, which now allows a full digital view of what had to be done on paper in the past. The draft law transposing the restructuring directive further provides for an increase in the number of flashing lights specifically aimed at possible fraud such as seat relocations. In addition to prosecution by the public prosecutor and professional bans, as Mr De Bleeker pointed out in her response to the Pano reportage, tackling fraud also requires consumer protection by preventing such malicious entrepreneurs from acting as contractors, by imposing additional insurance and by giving consumers the opportunity to inform themselves about a candidate contractor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u5	Minister, I am pleased to hear that a number of things are being prepared: strengthening, legislative intervention, tools, databases. In itself, that's all fine. I also fully support the idea that the consumer should be better protected preventively so that he can stand stronger and be accompanied. However, we will need people who will check such a professional ban, registered in a central register, on the ground. That seems like the first big challenge. For this we will have to cooperate with the police forces, as happens in some districts, for example in Limburg. It would be good to look at the approach there so that, pending legislative intervention and additional recruitment, you can issue a directive to achieve a uniform approach. Now there is a big difference between the arrondissements and there is no justification for such a difference in treatment with the victims. It would be a good thing to have the practical follow-up to the ban on employment as it is already taking place.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for your commitment. We're gonna follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u7	Madam President, Minister, in the press on Monday 31 January, the mayor of the City of Brussels, Philippe Close, expressed his desire to see the adoption as soon as possible of a law "casseurs" or "anti-casseurs" aimed at prohibiting future demonstrations of persons who have committed damage or violence during a demonstration. It thus parallels the 1998 Security Act during football matches. The Human Rights League soon made its greatest reservations about this project known. This can be understood because the freedom to assemble in public space and freedom of expression are fundamental rights which are extremely well protected and whose limitations, if not impossible, are in any case subject to particularly strict controls. Mr Minister, as Mr Close indicated that he was already discussing this matter with you, I would like to put the following questions to you. Is such a project actually under discussion within your firm or was it an announcement effect? If so, how is the need for a new measure justified in the light of the existing arsenal? Would it be a new accessory penalty in the event of a criminal conviction, which would then be imposed by the trial judge or an administrative sanction? Would such a ban on demonstrations be limited to demonstrations on the same theme or would it be generalized to all types of demonstrations? How long would it take? In the event of an accessory criminal penalty, for what offences and under what conditions could the judge impose it? Would there not be a risk of double punishment? Would this be recorded in the criminal record? If, on the contrary, it was an administrative sanction, should it be understood that the possibility of limiting a fundamental freedom would then be entrusted to an administrative authority? What would be the right of appeal of the person concerned? Would there be a recording in a communal or police file? If so, on what basis? Would an administrative arrest for acts of public disorder during a demonstration automatically lead to a ban on future demonstrations, even in the absence of a criminal conviction? Finally, how would such a prohibition, whether administrative or criminal, pass the rigorous tests to which limitations on freedom of expression and freedom of expression are subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u8	I refer to the written version of my oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u9	Mr Minister, I also wanted to ask you about the recent statements made by the mayor of the City of Brussels. Instead, I wanted to put it in context with a law that was passed three years ago by the French National Assembly in the context of the "yellow vests" crisis. Indeed, at that time, the National Assembly had drawn on the step-ban measure to adopt a law that allowed for more severe punishment of offences committed by breakers during demonstrations. It is a law that also seems to inspire our country's decision-makers. Indeed, as has been said, following the violence that took place on 23 January in the margins of the European demonstration against health measures, the mayor of Brussels has indeed proposed a similar approach, namely a law inspired by our ban on stage to deter breakers. Mr Close not only stated that he had already opened discussions with your cabinet on this subject, but also that the file should come "quite quickly into the hands of Members". If the desire to prosecute people who attack public furniture and real estate as well as businesses can be perfectly understood, it cannot, in our view, justify interference with the work of Parliament, which must guarantee proportionate laws guaranteeing the rights of the defence. The mayor Close also pleads that the administrative authorities could prohibit certain people from protesting because of their violent history during demonstrations. However, the French Constitutional Council has rejected the text of the National Assembly for a completely similar provision with, as a very simple justification, that the prohibition of demonstrations must remain within the competence of the judge, as the infringement of the right to demonstrate is important. As a result, Minister, these are my questions, which go along with those of my colleagues. Do you confirm that discussions have been initiated with the cabinet of the mayor of the City of Brussels on the introduction of a "casseurs" bill? Who is involved in this reflection? I am thinking in particular of the Minister of the Interior, of course, but also of civil society and the Federal Institute for Human Rights, for example. Can you dispel my fears about the introduction of a possibility for administrative authorities to prohibit certain people from demonstrating? Will the French law, which provides not only for a criminal component but also for an administrative and civil liability component, ultimately inspire your work in relation to this project that you have announced? Finally, when can we expect the tabling of this famous bill in Parliament, since Mr Close seemed to say that we would have something very soon? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I do not think I need to repeat that the violence we witnessed in Brussels on Sunday 23 January is unacceptable. This had nothing to do with the fundamental rights of assembly or association. No, they were breakers who had deliberately come to our country to ruin, and to deal with them with the authorities and the police. In the meantime, the analyses of our services have shown that these disorders were not only caused by Belgian groupuscules breakers, but also, and perhaps more importantly, by individuals from France and the Netherlands, specifically people from the extreme left-wing French sphere, anarchists and hooligans from the Netherlands, notably Rotterdam and Amsterdam. In recent years, we have seen a number of very violent demonstrations in France linked to the "yellow vests". The intelligence services shall also take into account mutual rivalry between groups of persons of left-wing and far-right orientation during the demonstration. For example, Dutch hooligans would have taken antifa flags from French anarchists. Of course, such a composition of protesters makes the matter even more complex. Of all the persons arrested, very few were known to our services. The names of troublemakers from abroad are being tested by our neighbouring countries. I said it last week in committee and I repeat it today: unfortunately, these are not one-off events. When the police department chief, with years of experience, writes an open letter expressing his anxiety and desperation by asking, "How much longer can we tolerate this as a police force and are we going to watch silently how our policemen have to collect more and more?', We need to consider what exactly is going on here and why authority is no longer being accepted. Then we need to look at how the policy can remedy that. The call and question of the Mayor of Brussels must be understood in this respect. Yes, my firm and I have already had concrete discussions with him on the subject. Yes, we are examining these proposals with the competent minister, the Minister of the Interior. For me, a number of things are important. First, fundamental freedoms and rights, the right of association and assembly are and will remain the starting point. We do not take this lightly. That's the opposite! We would cut off the branch on which we are sitting, and that, Mrs Hugon, I would not let it. On the other hand, we will not allow this ten-fold breaker to abuse this freedom to commit criminal acts. Secondly, when it comes to prosecuting and bringing to justice the perpetrators, the judiciary and the police must shoulder their responsibilities. I had another meeting with the Prosecutor and the Prosecutor General of Brussels on this matter. The Public Prosecutor's Office in Brussels has again assured me that suspects for whom there is sufficient evidence of conduct will be prosecuted. Unfortunately, we know that it is not enough to stop administratively a number of individuals present. They must be prosecuted. We must identify them and be able to attribute concrete facts to them, which is not obvious because they operate in tape and masked, while the police are mainly there to ensure the maintenance of law and order. We agreed with the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police on how to improve the effectiveness of investigations and prosecutions. I ensure that Circular COL 10/2017 is correctly applied. The Chief of Police of Brussels has confirmed to me that the court applies this circular in a consistent and correct manner. Thirdly, by definition, the Justice Department always goes after the facts. That is why we must have the courage to look at how we can give the administrative authorities more room for manoeuvre in administrative and preventive matters. A number of things are already possible at present. I am thinking first of all of the place ban provided for in Article 134sexies of the new municipal law. Furthermore, the administrative arrest as provided for in Article 31 of the Police Office Act. However, the Mayor of Brussels has indicated that these funds are not sufficient for him as part of his responsibility for public policy. He then referred to the football law. The football law provides for two types of stadium ban: on the one hand, an administrative ban on a number of legally defined offences imposed by the football cell with the possibility of appeal to the police court and, on the other hand, a judicial ban on the stage imposed by the criminal court against persons prosecuted for offences committed during football matches, as in the case of this supporter who threw a smoker in the gallery of the supporters of the opposing team during the Antwerp-Beerschot match. The perpetrator was arrested and defeated for attempted murder. We are looking at whether, by analogy with the stadium ban, an administrative or judicial manifestation ban is possible. In this context, at least four essential conditions must be met. First, we must clearly define who we can impose such a ban on. This is, of course, an application of the principle of legality, particularly in the light of the fundamental freedoms mentioned above. Secondly, these individuals must be adequately monitored by our security services, the police in the framework of public order, as well as by the intelligence services and the OCAM as part of their monitoring of the phenomena of extremism and violent extremism. Thirdly, it is necessary to be able to carry out this monitoring. Of course, a city like Brussels cannot be compared to a football stadium. In this sense, a reporting obligation could be considered. Prohibited persons must report to the local police office during a demonstration. Finally, we do not question the rights of the defence. The possibility of appeal, as provided for in the football law, is also provided for. You know that football law is a matter for the Minister of the Interior. The same applies to such a law against rioters. Together with colleague Close, we will first discuss and work out the proposals with Home Affairs. I have just given you the chalk lines, further details seem premature at this stage. In any case, I thank you for giving me some of your concerns. I understand the apprehensions of some when it comes to preventive and administrative measures. Indeed, we must exercise some caution in this area. But, on the other hand, the football law proves that such measures are possible in a state governed by the rule of law and that they can also have an effect. No one will deny that football law and its application have contributed substantially to reducing hooliganism and acts of vandalism related to football in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I am pleased to hear you say, even if I had no real doubt, that you will continue to keep fundamental rights as a starting point. The point here is obviously not to say that demonstrators would have the right to commit violence or degradation or that such acts would be inherent in the right to demonstrate. It would of course not be appropriate to put this debate as a debate for or against breakers. That's not the point at all. I don't think there's a single person here who supports damage or attacks during demonstrations. I just want to point out something in passing. I believe that the fact that this call for such a law emanates from a mayor whose lack of response to the violence committed by his police has long been criticized is also not done to appease the minds in the matter of proportional reaction. It is not a question of considering that demonstrators have the right to commit violence, but it is nevertheless a question of respecting Belgium's commitments and obligations to ensure respect for international, European and constitutional guarantees protecting freedom of expression and freedom of expression. Of course, they're not absolute, and you remind him. But they are particularly well protected. The comparison of Mr Close, which you are extending here with the so-called hooligans law, has limits that are not only those that acknowledge that the city of Brussels is not a football stadium. Freedom of expression and demonstration and the right to attend a football game cannot be put on the same footing. These are things between which the comparison still knows limits. In conclusion, I would like to stress the words of my colleague Sophie Rohonyi who stressed the adoption of a bill with a similar objective in France in 2019. It was intended to provide the prefect with the possibility of prohibiting any person against whom there were substantial grounds for believing that the conduct constituted a threat of particular gravity to public order. In summary, the prefect was authorized to prohibit participation in future events. This article was censored by the French Constitutional Council, which considered that the ban on demonstrations violated freedom of expression, which was not appropriate, necessary and proportionate. I therefore think it is particularly important to keep this example in mind for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that the Mayor of Brussels believes that he currently has too few tools in his hands to take adequate preventive action. What I also understand is that it seems that it will not be easy to achieve something like this effectively, because we are faced with a number of important rights. I also ask myself the question of the practical feasibility for the police, for example, to carry out these checks. We'll follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u13	Mr Minister, let's be clear: I fully agree with you that violence against police officers is unacceptable and especially when they are there to ensure the right of demonstrators to demonstrate safely. The question here is how to respond to these breakers and the added value of this new anti-casseurs law on which you are working, since provisions already exist. The new communal law allows the mayors to impose temporary prohibitions of places for persons who cause disturbance to public order. Secondly, the Penal Code allows for the punishment of a whole series of attacks on the property of others or of assaults on public officials. Your reform of the Criminal Code provides for aggravating circumstances when assaults are inflicted on our police officers. I understand that, for the actors on the ground, these provisions are insufficient. There would therefore be a desire to make this ban potentially unlimited in time. In our view, this raises the question of proportionality. As you do, you cannot compare such a law with the football law because it is limited to a stadium and not to entire neighbourhoods of the city of Brussels, as well as the motivations of hooligans are not the same as those of breakers or demonstrators related to them. Here we are facing a two-problem measure. First of all, there is a problem of principle because the author would be subjected to a double penalty, namely a criminal sanction already provided for in the Penal Code and, in addition, a judicial or administrative ban – I confess not to have followed you. Moreover, a similar provision was censored by the French Constitutional Council. Then there is a practical problem. I wonder what means will be used to identify problematic individuals and force them to report to the police several times a day, when we know that the city of Brussels is hosting almost a thousand demonstrations a year, with, as you yourself said, Mr Minister, demonstrators coming from all over Europe, not just from Brussels or the Brussels Region, who are most often unknown to the police services. Your comments prove that there is a lack of practicality of the law on which you are working. You tell us that the zone chiefs have serious concerns about the incidents of violence on the margins of these demonstrations. They're right. But the greatest concern is the lack of resources for this police area. It has been years since this police zone called for a revision of the KUL standard, which sets the standards for funding police areas in order to cope with the significant increase in demonstrations. I hope that it is precisely on this point, Mr Minister, that you will draw the attention of your colleague, the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u14	Madam President, Minister, the trial of the attacks of 13 November 2015, currently underway in Paris, has given rise to a number of very interesting legal debates. For example, recently, in order to place one of the defendants in the face of its contradictions and inconsistencies, it was used a video recovered on Syrian ground by anti-Daesh coalition troops. These "war proofs" number thousands. They are often, as is the case here, from the "Operation Gallant Phoenix" programme. Placed under the aegis of the United Nations, involving 27 countries, including Belgium, the latter is the presence, in Jordan, of a huge data centre whose data must be used in particular to accompany judicial proceedings against jihadists. It was in this context that French justice used it during the trial of the attacks of 13 November. However, it turns out that the status of this evidence raises questions and has largely fed the recent debates in the Parisian trial, the defence considering them "failure" because it does not respect the rules that normally govern the collection of evidence. The National Anti-Terrorism Prosecutor's Office objected to this thesis on the basis of the principle of "freedom of evidence". He was the one who ultimately won. There are probably lessons to be learned from this episode as we approach the start of the trial of the attacks in Brussels, scheduled for next October. Minister, in the context of international judicial cooperation, do we use the results of Operation Gallant Phoenix? If so, is the status of this evidence being considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u15	Mr Ben Achour, your questions are relevant and important. Fortunately, the Federal Prosecutor's Office and our criminal judges are not in their first attempt to use and evaluate evidence provided by coalition troops in the conflict zone, even in the context of a formal criminal investigation. In fact, in the course of its investigations, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office uses the Captured Enemy Material (CEM), which is renamed Collected Exploitable Material, which relates to the monitoring of Belgian suspects. This information from Operation Gallant Phoenix is delivered by the intelligence services to the federal prosecutor via the Joint Counter-Terrorism Platform. This procedure also allows an application to be made to the above mentioned EMF operation. If documents concerning Belgians are found, they are sent in raw form to the General Intelligence and Security Service (SGRS) and to the State Security Service, which analyse the contents of the documents and add any useful context, before transferring them unclassified to the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. These documents can therefore be used in court files. Moreover, the evidence in Belgian and French criminal cases is free. The EMF information is first considered information, but can be used as supporting evidence, in conjunction with other evidence. The Belgian courts and tribunals have already accepted the EMC as supporting evidence in many terrorist investigations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u16	Minister, I thank you for this extremely clear and auspicious response at the dawn of a trial that looks resounding. In my opinion, this information counts, even beyond the context of the trial of the attacks in Paris. It seems useful to me in view of the question of the return of the Foreign Terrorism Fighters (FTF), advocated by all security services, so as to keep control over them and avoid escapes. Moreover, in northern Syria, several prisons were attacked, resulting in escapes. If these Belgian terrorists are brought back to judge them here, the risk was, so far, to be able to judge them only for membership of a terrorist organization, with the key up to five years in prison. If we listen carefully to your answer, there are other perspectives in terms of the length of the sentence. In my view, this should pave a broader way to the issue of the repatriation of these FTFs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u17	Minister, last September, Attorney General Delmulle stated that, in the absence of sufficient resources, he was forced to abandon certain financial crime investigations. At the time, you told me that it was against your policy, that you wanted to tackle this crime and that the judiciary and the judicial police were going to be strengthened. For you, it is not a problem of means but a lack of candidates. You made sure you took this problem very seriously. Today, it is Mr. de la Serna, president of the College of Attorneys General, who sounds the alarm. For him, "the mafia takes possession of the country." He tells us that there is an urgent need to strengthen the judicial police to save the fight against great banditry and financial crime. What is your answer to M. de la Serna? Do you think you've done enough as a result of your announcements last September? Where are the advertised recruitments? How will you strengthen the judicial police and the attractiveness of these functions, in order to find enough candidates?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u18	Minister, the title could count, I think, even more: "La mafiaprend possession du pays." We don't really expect that, but it seems to be the case. That ruling can count, not because it comes from the opposition, but from the President of the College of Attorney General. He does paint a very gloomy picture, doesn't he? We know that economic and fiscal fraud is not prosecuted enough, although these detectives actually earn themselves back if they are able to do proper research. A lack of capacity, including with the judicial police, means that choices must now be made, and which cases of serious organised crime should or should not be investigated and prosecuted. This is particularly regrettable, especially since, according to the President's assessment, this is not really living in political terms. He makes a comparison, saying that shoplifters, for example, are given priority, but not economic and tax fraud at all. For this reason, he felt that there was not enough attention to be paid to it. However, the Skky operation does bring a lot to the surface, which offers a huge opportunity to hit organized crime hard. We know that organized crime also infiltrates our ordinary economy, our ordinary life, and destroys so much. It is therefore important to address this in different ways. This is an emergency cry from one of the most important magistrates in our country. That raises questions. I am aware that this has already been discussed last week, but some questions remain so pertinent that I ask them anyway. Minister, to what extent are you aware of and can you intervene in the fact that choices are being made, including on serious organised crime, between what is and what is not being prosecuted? There have been many announcements of reinforcements, as was the case with my previous oral question. It's interesting to know what's going on with that. How many people have actually been added since surgery-Sky? How much extra resources did the detectives get? On the ground, I understand that working conditions are still difficult, although I understand that not everything is resolved overnight. What steps will you take in the coming months, which will provide you with reinforcement and resources to effectively roll out an approach to deal with organised crime, as was the case with Operation Sky.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u19	Madam President, Minister, like my colleagues, I would like to go back to the words of the Attorney General, Mr de la Serna, last week. It conveyed the concerns of the College of Attorneys General about a lack of resources to the judicial police, which led to the abandonment of files of serious and organised crime and financial crime. As noted earlier, a few months ago his colleague Mr Delmulle expressed similar concerns about economic and financial crime cases. Last Thursday, in plenary, you rightly stressed that the Sky ECC dossier is an emblematic issue of our country's ability to deal with organised crime. Nevertheless, this mammouth case is draining enormous resources – almost a third of the resources of the Federal Judicial Police, according to Mr. de la Serna – to the detriment of other cases. The means required to be able to properly monitor these cases seem reasonable in terms of the stakes; 35 million euros seems to be an expenditure that our budget should be able to cope with, given the stakes involved. Minister, in your Policy Statement 2020-2024, you indicated that the Federal Judicial Police was understaffed in certain areas. You noted a shortage of more than 600 investigators as a result of budget restrictions in previous years. Where are we today? The College of Attorneys General requests the recruitment of 500 additional staff. Last week, you announced the recruitment of an additional 195 dedicated investigators this year. Could you provide us with more details on specializations and the recruitment schedule? Are there enough candidates? Otherwise, what can we do to increase the number of applications? Does the number of 500 persons claimed by the Attorney General already include these 195 persons, or are they 500 additional persons? Will recruitment continue in 2023 and 2024? What is the status of strengthening the judiciary for the criminal enforcement investigation (PEI), which was also announced in your political orientation statement? Finally, in your General Policy Note 2021, you stressed that choices should be made and priorities set in the fight against crime, because the investigative capacity of police and justice is not infinite. Could you tell us more about the priorities set?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already had the opportunity to speak on this subject at the plenary session on Thursday, 3 February. I don't think I'm exaggerating when I say we've never dealt with as many files of great banditism in our country as we have in the past year. It is not my words, it is the words of the police and the justice system itself. The title of the press conference that was held on 26 October 2021 by the federal parquet, the Antwerp parquet and the federal police testify to this:Le démantèlement du réseau Sky ECC, un point derupture dans le combat contre la criminalité organisée en Belgique. I would also like to refer to the quote given by the Antwerp Attorney in the Gazet Van Antwerpen on December 31st of last year: "If you are just looking at the live-phase, (I have) the things that have come out of it in 27 years at the public prosecutor's office never seen before. Beasts, atrocities, tons of money and tons of coke. The fact that we're all seeing that shows that they never thought we'd see it. I don't want to be naive, but with the exercise of Sky ECC and the current results, we've already started something between the ears of those guys at home and abroad." I think we can make two observations. Firstly, the impact of organised crime in our country is indeed more important than ever. The negative effects of corruption, violence and money laundering can no longer be seen. Secondly, thanks to the Sky ECC file, we have really made sure that organized crime in our country is held to the throat. From the start, we have helped police and justice in their struggles and continue to do so. We've provided punctual reinforcements and investment. I am thinking of the 6,61 additional staff, especially for the public prosecutor's office in Antwerp in the handling of the Skky ECC file, which we immediately released; releasing $600,000 for the immediate investment with the police; accepting as legal costs of investments needed for the decryption of encrypted devices. We have also dealt with things structurally. Of course, I am referring to the additional investments in justice amounting to half a billion euros by the end of the legislature. We are investing in additional judges, among other things, in the fight against organised crime, cybercrime, tax fraud, but also in the criminal enforcement investigation. Mrs Hugon, we have provided resources for six magistrates, twelve experts and six assistants. Of these, two magistrates, two experts and two assistants have been recruited and have already entered service. As far as the police are concerned, in 2020 we released funds for the recruitment of more than 800 people to the FGP. We found only half of these candidates. At the start of the legislative period on 1 October 2020, 4,197 people were employed by the FGP, and on 31 December last year there were 4,387 people, i.e. 190 extra to the FGP. There has therefore been an increase in the number of people in the FGP since the start of the legislature. Thirdly, we invest EUR 30 million in the NTSU, which is the department of the Federal Judicial Police responsible for metadata and interception. Resources for additional vehicles were also released at the Council of Ministers in June 2021. The Federal Judicial Police will receive a delivery of 300 new vehicles again this year. This year too, new resources of €70 million will be injected into the integrated police force, including the recruitment of 1,600 new recruits. Last year, some 1,700 new recruits have already been hired. This year we will also release resources for the recruitment of an additional 195 dedicated investigators for the Federal Judicial Police. These include computer scientists, tax practitioners, analysts and other specialized profiles. So the truth is that the FGP is not being neglected in our country. The truth is that the Sky ECC file and all derived files on an unprecedented scale seize the capacity of the FGP. Today, more than 700 of the 2,000 detectives at the FGP are working on these files. Together with our colleague from the Interior, we have already made considerable efforts, but we are aware that we must now continue on this path. That's why we're going to recruit these 195 specialized detectives. However, we also call on the federal police to make efforts, as it is now clear that providing additional resources is not enough in itself, we must also find those with the right profiles. We therefore call on the Federal Police to work as an employer with appropriate branding campaigns - the judicial campaign proves that this is possible - but also by putting in place faster recruitment procedures and adapted and rapid training routes for these specialist profiles. We also call for investment in i-Police - the major digitalisation project of the integrated police - to bear fruit. In view of the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, we also ask that no islands be formed, but that there be cooperation, including with local police, by involving local detectives, for example, in order to be able to complete all the Sky ECC files. As Mrs De Wit mentioned, Sky ECC is one of the most important issues in the fight against organised crime. Every day new data and files appear that all need and will be dealt with. It is therefore a good thing to call on the local police, such as in Antwerp, where we employ 25 detectives. There is a great deal of quality in the local police force, including in the field of detectives. Let there be no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u21	Minister, if I were you, I'd be worried. When the President of the College of Attorneys General was asked whether the judicial police were capable of combating financial crime, his answer was categorically negative. The judicial police are unable to combat financial crime. You can tell us anything you want, but the people who are responsible for this struggle and who are on the ground say they are unable to do so because of a lack of resources. There is no means to lead this struggle. You talked about Operation Sky ECC, which still mobilised between a quarter and a third of the judicial police for a single operation. Who's gonna do the rest of the work? You mentioned an investment of €70 million and the recruitment of 1,600 police officers into the integrated police force. Ms. Verlinden gives the same answer when I ask her about the police. Is this EUR 70 million for two ministries? Is this how we want to reform the police and empower them? You're talking about 70 million euros. It is not known whether this is a single or annual sum. What Mr de la Serna says is that it takes EUR 35 million a year. This EUR 70 million does not seem to be for two years, to the best of my knowledge. This is largely insufficient in relation to the needs of the field. Even at the recruitment level, you tell us that you recruited 190 people. Mr. de la Serna repeated that today, 500 people are still missing so that it can turn out optimally, even taking into account the 190 people you are quoting. You also tell us that there are very few applications for the job offer. That's normal, minister. The working conditions need to be reviewed. We have to make this job attractive. You have the same problem with the prison officers. You do not work on the attractiveness of the trade to have the necessary candidates and profiles. People aren't going to get into something that doesn't work. People want to have a job that won't make life difficult for them, on the contrary. Moreover, when the previous government removed the investigation costs - about 200 euros - this created a vacuum for the judicial police. This police force has become uninteresting for the workers. There are therefore several projects to be carried out and I believe that the feeling of self-satisfaction on certain aspects does not have its place at all in the present situation. There is a real need for concrete, quantified, clear answers that meet the needs of the ground. You're still a long way from that, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u22	Minister, it is a good thing that investment is being made. I'd like to hear you quote all these numbers and numbers. However, they have already been announced and despite the additional capacity created, the President of the College of Attorneys-General says today that this cannot be done, that choices must be made and that not everything can be investigated. The mob's taking over. That paints a particularly gloomy picture. This government, together with the actors in the field, must do everything in its power to prevent this happening. Those actors need support. Despite all the announcements, today it remains a fact that one of the main actors of justice is calling the alarm bell once again and declaring that insufficient efforts are being made. So there's still a lot of work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u23	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answers. I am sure that you are paying the utmost attention to these issues, and I welcome your willingness to move forward. But this is clearly not enough, in the light of what was said last week, by the President of the College of Attorneys General. The difficulty in finding people who are likely to fill the positions that we want to open is a matter of great concern. This is therefore an essential and priority project. These positions must be made sufficiently attractive to attract candidates for these positions. However, it is particularly worrying to read in the press that the Mafia is taking possession of the country, even though I hear that you do not fully agree with this finding, just as I hear your arguments on this subject. My colleague, Mrs De Wit, is not wrong when she draws our attention to the fact that the fight against financial crime in particular is very lucrative for the State. It is well known that a civil servant engaged, for example, in combating tax fraud can earn up to ten times what he or she costs in the state's salaries in public funds. It is therefore certainly very interesting to invest in this type of profile. It is also known that files often have several dimensions. Things may need to be done to improve interconnections, as part of the processing of these files. Indeed, there is often talk of offences of several kinds. You recently wanted to create a public prosecutor's office dedicated to road safety. What is your view on the advisability of creating a prosecutor's office specializing in financial crime? I do not hide the fact that the creation of such a prosecutor's office is included in my electoral programme. But this idea was also defended by Justice Claise in L'Écho last October. I will certainly have the opportunity to come back with a question about this in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u24	Mr Minister, it has been reported that Mr Claude Dedye, municipal councillor PS in Pépinster, as well as Ms Julie Beckers, leader of the Socialist Group in the Communal Council, admitted having diverted 500 kilos of coal destined for flood victims. The infringement is clearly established and admitted by the parties concerned. It is all the more scandalous because they are elected officials who divert donations from the flood victims whose dire needs are known, particularly in the area of heating in this difficult period. I would therefore like to ask you whether a criminal investigation has been initiated against these two persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u25	Mr Boukili, until articles were published in the press, the Liège Public Prosecutor's Office was not informed of these facts. On 2 February, the King's prosecutor instructed him to open a judicial investigation into the charge of misappropriation. So let the prosecutor's office shed all the light on this case, which, I can understand, gives rise to a certain emotion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is good to know that the Prosecutor's Office is investigating this case, given the sensitive nature of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u27	Minister, there would be a reactivation of the letter from the College of Attorneys General concerning the suspension of the executions of certain convictions during the corona crisis. This would be necessary because of the new increase in the number of corona infections in our country. In order to control the influx of convicts into prisons, non-urgent convictions will not be enforced for the time being. This is once again a very serious measure. From a human point of view, I fully understand this, but at the same time, this measure is firmly opposed to your ambition for effective and rigorous punishment. Moreover, this is a very strange time to do so. The letter was lifted on 4 June 2021, but is now being reactivated in February 2022. However, the fourth wave has passed and the peak of the fifth wave is already behind us. The number of daily infections is declining very quickly. One country after another announces that the corona measures will be phased out or even abolished altogether. I hope that we will soon be able to return to a more normal life here. But that doesn't count in the prison system. There we do the opposite and, because of the corona crisis, we are going to suspend the execution of sentences. Where does this strange timing come from, especially at a time when relaxations come into view everywhere? Do the acute overpopulation in prisons and the announced implementation of the short sentences sometimes play a role in reactivating this letter? Why was the deadline of the letter already fixed on 31 May? It is now early February, so May 31 is much later. How many convicts is it estimated to be? How many convicts could already use the previous circular No. 07a/2020? Was the sentence carried out for each of them?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u28	The high infectiousness of the omikron variant means a high risk of large internal contamination sites within closed collections such as prisons, both among the prisoners and the staff. Especially among staff, this presents a risk of a high level of absenteeism due to illness and quarantine, which could jeopardise the provision of services to prisoners and security. Unlike other sectors, we cannot, of course, close departments because of a lack of staff. As a result, limiting the inflow remains the only possible track. It is far from obvious to respect sanitary measures, which are preventive quarantine and medical isolation up to the entire or partial lockdown of prisons, in overcrowded prisons. The reason should not be sought much further. However, you are right, it is a far-reaching measure, and that is why we did not go ice-cream over one night and waited as long as possible for this proposal to take place so that the duration of the letter would be as short as possible. After that, we must always make up for the damage that has been suffered. As far as your third question is concerned, the College of Attorney General will have to make a decision tomorrow. In any case, this is a deadline. An evaluation of the situation will be carried out monthly. We also have every interest in keeping that period as short as possible, because of the damage I said earlier, as we want to limit the impact of catching up with these penalties. As far as your fourth and fifth questions are concerned, I cannot at the moment tell you how many people are currently eligible for this favour. For the sake of clarity, it is temporary, i.e. with a short period of time, postponing and not adjusting a prison sentence. To provide a comparison, from November 2020 to May 2021, 6,714 penalties were implemented with a short delay with the COL 7bis. Afterwards, these penalties were implemented in stages before 1 December 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u29	The only positive point in your reply was that it is a temporary postponement and that the penalties are eventually phased out, with delay. I don't need to explain to you that this is not a good thing to be able to play on the ball for a short time. My mind will be too small for it, but that letter was lifted in June 2021. After that, we knew a serious delta wave, with serious consequences, and then it wasn't reactivated. We had a fifth wave with the omikron variant, mainly in January, and then it wasn't activated either. Now that the end is in sight and we see the contamination rates dropping drastically every day, that letter is being used again to delay the execution of the sentence. I could have understood if you had done that in November or December. I would have understood if you had done so at the beginning of January. Now I find the timing very bizarre, unless there is a different approach for reasons of another concern, with other aspects being discussed. That must be said, then I can understand that. However, the peak of absenteeism, the greatest problem and the greatest wave of contamination are behind us. So it does not make sense at all that this is happening at the moment. I hope that this arrangement will be as short as possible. However, it is foreseen until 31 May, which is still a few months away. It is very strange and not at all logical that we should do so now, unless there are other reasons, which I am beginning to suspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u30	Madam President, Minister, a new tragedy is shaking our country: the murder of 21-year-old Luca, killed by his mother's former companion while trying to protect her from the violence to which she was subjected. First of all, I would like to offer my condolences to the victim's family, to her mother, who has to go through this terrible ordeal. Recently, a report on domestic violence demonstrated the structural shortcomings in the fight against domestic violence in our country. We have a sad demonstration today. It appears that this case dates back to December 2021. Luca's father-in-law had already been investigated for the violence. Minister, what can you tell us about this case and, in particular, about the facts of December? Does the Government take into account the impact of domestic violence on children in the fight against domestic violence? What measures are you going to take to combat this type of violence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u31	Mevrouw de voorzitster, dear colleague, I can inform you that the facts, in which a young man unfortunately lost his life, are currently being investigated by the Liège Public Prosecutor's Office, and that an investigating judge has been seized, for the time being, of homicide and attempted homicide. The judge decided to place the individual under arrest on 3 February last afternoon. However, the contents of the investigation are covered by the secrecy of the investigation. So, like you, I don't have any more information. You know that fighting domestic violence is one of my priorities. It seems that we are again confronted with the terrible consequences that this phenomenon can bring. On your second and third questions, the government, as well as the actors on the ground, are well aware of the enormous impact of domestic violence on child witnesses and/or victims of such violence. The Joint Circular of the Minister of Justice and the College of Attorneys General on Criminal Policy on Domestic Violence, which was revised in 2015, contains specific guidelines in this regard. I quote the basic rule applied by the police and judicial authorities: "In addition, the situation of children in the family must be given special attention, particularly in view of the impact that violence may have on them at the physical, psychological, emotional and/or material level. The action of the judicial police authorities will therefore be characterized by its speed and firmness, as well as by a decision based on a good assessment of the situation, focusing on the danger of an immediate continuation of the common life for the integrity of the victim and of the children living at the couple's residence; and more generally, on the risks of reproduction of the acts of violence." This is the result of concrete instructions for the police and prosecutors when children are involved, but, as you know, the fight is not only a struggle between the police and the judicial authorities, but also a struggle between the intervention, assistance and assistance services of the Communities and Regions, which are also making great efforts in this regard. As we are well aware of this need for inter-institutional interaction, Belgium has been implementing its policy of combating gender-based violence since 2001 through a national action plan involving the Federal State, the Communities and the Regions and coordinated by the Institute for Gender Equality. These consecutive plans of action have always paid particular attention to child witnesses and/or victims of domestic violence. The same applies to the new plan 2021-2025. Other measures that will also benefit child witnesses and/or victims of domestic violence include strengthening the protection, detection and support of children exposed to gender-based violence and improving their access to protection and support services. For example, the purpose of measure 118 is, I quote, "to assess the mechanisms to encourage exchanges between stakeholders and users on parenting and to detect worrying family situations such as, in Dutch, Kindreflex or the DPO tool (detection, care and guidance of victims) and to study their possible extension to the police and to the justice system in particular regarding situations of violence between partners and/or intra-family". In addition, there are forums for dialogue between the justice sector and the aid, mental health and education sectors, which allow for better consideration of the realities of each sector in order to find answers and improve day-to-day work. On the francophone side, mention should be made of the permanent conference of consultation on ill-treatment. In addition, "maltreatment" commissions within each district have been set up. Their mission is to improve procedures for dealing with situations of ill-treatment. In order to do so, they bring together all relevant actors, such as the Youth Aid Advisor and Director, a representative of the SOS Enfants teams, a representative of the head office and the prosecutor's office, around the table. The Office for Birth, Childhood and Youth Assistance has signed a circular on the supervision of the functioning of the commissions for the coordination of assistance to child victims of abuse in each judicial district. On the Dutch-speaking side, there is the Vlaams Forum Kindermishandeling, which is a structure for consultation between the various political actors of justice and well-being. In view of the worrying situation related to the health crisis, Opgroeien, in collaboration with the Justice FPS, decided to replace this forum with the so-called "Kindermishandeling" platform, which was launched on 4 June last year. Its objectives are, first, to achieve a coordinated policy, approach and cooperation on child abuse among the various actors, secondly, to develop expertise, knowledge and scientific research on child abuse and, thirdly, to raise awareness, inform and train on child abuse. There are also borough councils for child abuse, in which the various partners meet in order to get to know each other better and discuss cases and the local approach to child abuse in an anonymous manner. These initiatives demonstrate a broader approach than domestic violence against child witnesses or victims of domestic violence, but also allow for an inclusive approach to the issue. I can therefore assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that this government, as well as the governments of the federated entities, is committed to intensifying and aligning their efforts to combat the phenomenon of domestic violence by paying particular attention to child witnesses and victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your informative answers. I agree with you when you say that there are circulars and directives, and I think it takes them to deal with this kind of problem. The fact is that, in reality, we can do as many circulars and bills as we want, it can't work if, on the ground – as the report of Committee P shows – the police are not trained to deal with this kind of problem and if they don't have the means to do so, as has been said for the judicial police. It's the same problem. With regard to domestic violence or violence against women in general, it was not enough for it to be written theoretically in documents; it was still necessary for those theories to be applicable in practice. And for them to be applicable, we need the necessary resources. An example to illustrate my point is the Family Violence Centres (CPVS). For example, if a person wants to file a complaint or make his or her situation known in one of these centres, he or she cannot do so if the sexual assault he or she suffered dates more than a month ago, because the services are overloaded and, after a month, they have neither the time nor the staff to deal with these complaints. These are the facts: SCVs that are saturated. It's just an example. I'm not even talking about the police, the follow-up of complaints, or the rankings without action. I'm not talking about these things that are aberrant in the 21st century in a country as advanced as Belgium. Laws and circulars will not change anything if there are no means on the ground and if we don't put the money there. It's the nerve of war. Without resources on the ground, theory is useless.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u33	Mr Minister, last week the Constitutional Court ruled no. 15/2022 considered that the legislator should provide an effective preventive remedy for the suspect in an investigation to accelerate a lengthy criminal investigation. This possibility already exists in the context of a judicial investigation. If the investigation is not concluded after one year, the accused person may request the Board of Appeal to exercise control over its progress. However, a suspect in an investigation does not have a similar right, which, according to the Constitutional Court, constitutes a violation of Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution, read in conjunction with the right to a fair trial, Article 6 of the ECHR, and the right to an effective remedy, Article 13 of the ECHR. Once again, the Constitutional Court makes a ruling on the division between investigation and judicial investigation. In a judgment of 25 January 2017, the Court established a constitutional breach because, unlike the judicial investigation, no legal remedy was provided for in the investigation to submit an application for access to an impartial and independent judge rejected by the prosecutor. Mr Minister, we are getting to the point where it is no longer sustainable to maintain such a large difference in the legal protection of the seeker as a result of an investigation or a judicial investigation. Do you see this ruling by the Constitutional Court as an additional signal that there is a high need for reform of the Code of Criminal Procedure, or indeed part of it? If so, what is the state of play? After all, I know that work has already been done on this in the previous legislature. What specific plans do you have with the division between investigation and judicial investigation? Pending a comprehensive reform of criminal procedure, will you provide for repair legislation in order to comply with this ruling?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u34	Colleague, there is certainly a need for a reform of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The investigation and the judicial investigation are, in a way, comparable, as any law student knows. Therefore, it does not make sense for an independent judicial authority to be able to monitor the long-term duration of a judicial investigation, while a seeker in an investigation does not enjoy that possibility. In my policy paper of October 2021, the reform of criminal procedure law is explicitly highlighted. There is currently insufficient support for a complete reform of the Code of Criminal Procedure, as proposed by the experts. In other words, there is no majority in Parliament to implement this. You know that. That proposal is based on a unified preliminary investigation, in which there is no longer any division between investigation and judicial investigation. We are therefore going for a step-by-step reform which will examine and introduce three elements of the experts' proposal, namely evidence in criminal matters, limitation periods and extra-territorial offences. At the same time, we are looking at how to organise justice more efficiently, so that it does not have a delaying effect. As regards your fourth question, the Constitutional Court found an infringement in Article 136, second paragraph of the Code of Criminal Procedure, but pending legislative action, Article 136, second paragraph can be applied by analogy in the investigation. We have already examined the judgment of the Constitutional Court and are planning a legislative initiative to comply with this ruling. Supervision of a long-term investigation by the Board of Inclamation could possibly be included in a new Article 29i of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The procedure can then be developed by analogy with what is provided for in Article 136 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, as is already the case for judicial investigations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u35	I note that there is no majority in Parliament to carry out a global reform. It will make sense, then, to address at least some of the aspects which can clearly make the procedure more efficient. Pending this, it will be very important to address this now identified inequality and to repair the legislation in this area as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u36	Thank you for your interest in the digitisation of Justice, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh. It is a subject which, unfortunately, is not given enough attention, but, as you can see in this dossier, we are making steady progress. We also do this in many other digitization files. I come to your first question. It is useful to give a full picture of the progress of the procurement procedure. A competition procedure with negotiation shall be chosen. The award procedure will take place in two stages. The first phase concerns the call for participation. At this stage, candidates will be selected for their reliability, capacity and competence. The second stage concerns the submission of tenders. A maximum of three candidates from the first phase shall be selected. They receive a contract documents with the request to submit a tender within the legal time limit. The tenders submitted in good time shall be negotiated in successive stages. The selected candidates, whose tender met the criteria, then received a call for a best and final offer. The award decision will then be taken on the basis of the award criteria. The first phase was launched on 8 February by publishing the selection conditions on the e-Tendering platform. The deadline for the submission of applications was fixed on 16 March. Afterwards we start phase 2 and focus on July 2022 for the final award. The duration of this contract shall be 48 calendar months or 4 years. That duration may be extended by 12 calendar months three times. Given the complexity of the assignment and of the environment, both technologically and organizationally, this assignment has a longer duration. However, the first results are expected in the first trimester of 2023. The total value of this contract is estimated at EUR 5 million excluding VAT. This estimate is based on previous price offers obtained following a prior market investigation. As far as your fourth question is concerned, the public contract that has now been issued relates in particular to the establishment of the technical management of the central database of judgments and judgments, including related services such as pseudonymisation and providing secure access to this database to the public. Technically, it will be possible to include all judicial decisions in this database and make them public. In addition to this technical process, a new legal framework for the creation of this database is being developed through the drafting of a new draft law, because the 2019 law, as you know, failed in many respects. This draft law should lay down the rules governing the inclusion of the various types of judicial decisions in this database. Parliament will be able to give its opinion on this draft in the course of 2022. The FPS Justice will be very closely involved in the development of this database and will also actively steer the result to meet the technical and functional needs of users. A project leader has already been appointed to the FPS Justice Department, which succeeds the project from A to Z. In addition, several analysts have described certain elements of the expected solution. Over time, the team at FPS Justice will also be expanded to manage this product.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for answering my questions. I hope that the draft can indeed come into effect in 2022, because it has long been awaited.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u38	Madam President, Minister, since you took office in October 2020, the Secretary of State in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments and yourself, you have been questioned on a number of occasions by my colleagues and myself about the precise intentions regarding the Brussels prison site, once the transfer to Haren is complete. If I remember correctly, last week you even expressed a certain fatigue of being questioned over and over again on the same files, but you have to believe that even when you ask and base the same question, you do not always manage to get the information you want. The stated objective of Haren was to permanently close the three sites of the Brussels prison once the move had been made. A certain blur had been maintained around Berkendael, but the closure of Saint-Gilles has never been questioned so far. So imagine our surprise by discovering this Monday that you announced, through the press, that 200 places would be kept in Saint-Gilles prison after the move to Haren, until the end of 2024 in order to tackle prison overcrowding, with the announced result of the creation of 800 net places for 2022 and 2023. Some of these places concern Termonde's prison, but I'm focusing here on Saint-Gilles. I am talking about surprise because there was no trace of this project in your general policy notes or in your previous replies until last week in the yet very intense debate on Haren prison, which could have provided a good opportunity to talk to parliamentarians about it. You have also obviously not informed the Brussels-Capital Region, if I correctly interpret the Minister-President's reaction to this, nor the relevant municipalities of Saint-Gilles and Forest. All these actors have been trying for months, in vain, to obtain clarity on your part and on the part of the Secretary of State on the future of the site. The Saint-Gilles Communal Council adopted a motion at the end of January which called for clarity and consultation. The Colleges of Forest and Saint-Gilles have also recently communicated in this regard. Therefore, Minister, these are my questions. How long has this plan been in preparation? Why did you not make your intentions public earlier or, at the very least, did you not discuss them with your colleagues in the Council of Ministers, with the Region, with the municipalities? How will the opening of new places in practice and in the long term contribute to the fight against prison overcrowding when it is no longer necessary to prove that more places lead to more incarceration? What other avenues have been considered? What evidence do you think that after the end of 2024, the announced date, the overcrowding will no longer justify these additional places? Which detainees would remain locked up in Saint-Gilles in this plan? Some of those who are currently there or new prisoners or detainees transferred from elsewhere? What would be the cost of maintaining these places in Saint-Gilles? How many staff would be required? How do you intend to recruit this additional staff in view of the great difficulties already existing and known to recruit the necessary staff for Brussels?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u39	Minister, like my colleague Hugon, I learned last Friday, from your colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, through the press, that the prisons in Saint-Gilles and Forest will continue to be used at least until 2024, in addition to the prison in Haren. It is quite incomprehensible when we know that the previous governments have kept reminding us that this Haren prison was intended to replace these old Brussels prisons, and certainly not to be added to them. Minister Jambon had said this in response to a question from Mr.Maingain in June 2019, the same for Minister Geens in March 2019. You yourself, in your general policy note, said that the opening of the Haren prison would make it possible to close "the old unadapted prisons of Forest and Saint-Gilles". So, the slogan so far adopted by both your government and the previous ones was to build new prisons but certainly not to constantly increase prison capacity. My questions are similar to those of my colleague. Can you clarify the schedule for the transfer of detainees from Brussels prisons to Haren? How do you explain that these prisons will remain operational until December 2024 when this transfer of detainees is supposed to be finalized in June 2023? You recalled that during our current affairs debate last week. What guarantees do we have that they are no longer used beyond that date, in the end? When did you decide to keep these prisons? Is it since the alarm bell that was fired by the prison directors several weeks ago? How do you explain that these prisons will remain operational when the permits granted to the Haren project have been granted precisely, as I said, to replace the Brussels prisons officially too old to be renovated? What will become of Brussels prisons in the coming months? What are the planned projects and with what intermediaries? You also said this Monday that a plan was being drawn up for Saint-Gilles in order to keep "at least" 200 places. When was the decision to develop such a plan made? What is the objective? Why this figure of 200 seats? Could it be more important since you said "at least"? Will the plan be developed in consultation with the Régie des Bâtiments and the SPF Santé publique? Will new means be devoted to the renovation of the infrastructure of Saint-Gilles since some detainees would remain there? Finally, the Region calls for guarantees that the plans will not change again over the long term. What guarantees can you give him? Why did the government prefer to go out directly in the press rather than warn the Region in a case that is so important?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the enormous blows to drug traffickers in the Sky ECC case have had a significant impact on the population in pre-trial detention and, consequently, on the overall prison population. We are talking about more than 250 people detained only by the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and the Antwerp Public Prosecutor's Office. The figures for the public prosecutor's office in Brussels and others are not yet included and it appears that this number will increase further. I must also mention the increasing number of internment decisions and, consequently, the increase in the number of inmates in prison. Thus, in 2016, there were 302 such decisions, while in 2020 there were already 476 decisions, an increase of 58%. The enormous effort to reform the prison system with the creation of new posts of prison attendants, the establishment of the detention plan or the launching of small-scale detention facilities through detention centres and the new Criminal Code will have an impact on recidivism and thus on the population in the medium and long term. In the meantime, however, action must be taken to ensure that sentences are carried out in a humane and correct manner. This is not a long-standing thought-provoking plan, but it must be noted that overpopulation has worsened sharply in recent weeks. Action must therefore be taken to reassure those citizens who would certainly not understand that while new places are available in Haren and Termonde, prisoners continue to be forced to sleep in inadequate conditions with all the problems that this presents, particularly with regard to insecurity. But, be careful, this does not mean that medium-term options, such as the launch of the 2006 law in June or the opening of detention centres, will not be implemented. The extension of the St.Gilles prison for limited capacity ends at the end of 2024. As for the questions relating to the information of the Brussels-Capital Region and the municipalities, I invite you to ask my colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments. To answer questions from Mrs Hugon and Mrs Rohonyi, Forest Prison will be closed. The prison in Saint-Gilles will see its capacity drastically reduced but I cannot tell you yet what population will be welcomed there. The adjustments are obviously carried out in consultation with the partners concerned. The cost of the infrastructure cannot be precisely determined. This is due to the fact that there is not very large planned work, but maintenance and maintenance. The majority of this work is carried out by the Régie des Bâtiments, which could therefore provide you with more information on this subject. Of course, a certain budget within the justice system is reserved for some minor or urgent work or repairs. The analysis of purchasing and other contracts has yet to be deepened, since – I repeat – all this is only the result of a new and recent situation. It is still too early to provide concrete answers to staff questions. We are currently studying the various possibilities. A number of principles have already been set out. For example, Protocol 464 will serve as the basis for determining the temporary framework for Saint-Gilles Prison. We will also try to consolidate some administrative and support services with Haren Prison. We are also considering other forms of recruitment for temporary posts. We are therefore not limited to traditional statutory recruitment. As I have already indicated, the opening of the Haren prison will take place in phases. The opening of the various entities of the site and their occupation will take several months. The transfer of detainees will be linked to the reception and gradual commissioning of the various entities. As the building has not yet been definitively received, it is not possible for me to answer Mrs Rohonyi's question on this subject. We are dealing here with an unprecedented operation, given the scale of the operation. Indeed, the opening of the Haren prison will open up more places than the prisons of Marche-en-Famenne, Beveren and Leuze-en-Hainaut, which together do not reach the 1,000 prisoners. It is because of the scale of this operation that it is reasonable to expect the end of the activities at Saint-Gilles by the end of 2023. Once all detainees have been transferred, the Saint-Gilles prison will have to be closed, which, given the size of the building, will also be a complex operation. The parts of Saint-Gilles prison that will remain open until the end of 2024 will be intended for other categories of prisoners than those in Haren prison. They will be intended to relieve overpopulation, pending the adequate additional capacity. The decision to maintain these prisons is very recent. It is the result of the huge overpopulation recorded in recent weeks, weeks during which I have not stopped visiting the field and consulting the actors concerned. Not later than last week, I was still participating in a videoconference meeting with all the heads of prisons in the country. All these actors and the positions they defend are obviously involved in the decision. We have to make a difference between the prison in Forest and the prison in Saint-Gilles. I don't think she's in a state of advanced obstinateness. If certain sections are to be closed, the vast majority of them remain usable. For a more detailed assessment, I invite you to address my colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answers. I continue to deplore your method of communicating in the press information which has been requested by parliamentarians, the Brussels-Capital Region, municipalities and associations for a long time. The future of the Brussels prison site carries enormous challenges. It is important that all these actors can prepare for it. Real opportunities exist to rehabilitate the site in this area. There is, for example, a project for an educational museum of incarceration led by associative actors that would merit our full interest. As far as the substance is concerned, I am well aware that prison overcrowding is quite critical and even untenable, but I am not convinced that the solution of creating more places is the right solution, because it is known that they will be occupied almost as quickly. You know, Minister, that I agree with you every time you insist that the prison sentence must be the last resort, that it must make sense, that it must be human. But I cannot agree with your solution. I repeat that additional places are not a solution to prison overcrowding. This will create a very temporary relief, but in the long term, it is not a solution. It would be preferable to explore other options of avoiding prison sentences when they could be avoided, and allowing for early release. These are measures that have worked to partially empty prisons during the health crisis. You yourself recall that the pre-trial detention rate is enormous in Belgium. I do not think that quota-type solutions should be taken back in order to be able to control this phenomenon one day. While last week I was able to recall that my group was particularly critical of many aspects of Haren's project, it had at least the advantage of allowing the closure of the old prisons. Here, one leads somewhere to the cumulation of the disadvantages of the two options. I continue to find this regrettable. I understand that you are not, at this stage, capable of quantifying building costs or providing information on staff. We will return to these matters to you later. You also mention the increase in internment decisions as one of the factors leading to prison overcrowding. You are right to say that the legal psychiatry centres in preparation will provide an answer to this dimension. However, we know that they will not succeed until 2026 at the earliest. And yet you seem to be making a commitment that the extension will actually be completed by the end of 2024. I do not yet have all the guarantees that I would like to see on this issue. I'm afraid we're putting our finger in a gear and the extension extends beyond 2024. This uncertainty is not good for anyone. I really hope that we will be able to count on more clarity in the future and on very firm and definitive commitments on the actual date of closure of the site.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answers – even though I find them dismaying. They are unclear, on a decision that totally compromises the plans to convert the prison of Saint-Gilles into schools, museums and housing. Today, you tell us that part of the prison in Saint-Gilles would eventually be maintained in view of the sudden increase in the prison population due to the Sky ECC file. Forgive me, but this case has a really good back! This has become the right excuse to justify the fact that we are no longer giving ourselves the means to prosecute financial crime and to honour our commitments to replace outdated Brussels prisons with Haren prison. You tell us that the situation is temporary, that it is just by the end of 2024. But I am afraid that this new commitment will also not be respected, and that this situation will continue, given the difficulties of recruiting new prison officers for Haren. The risk is also that the places kept in Saint-Gilles are not sufficient. We know that the conditions of detention have become so serious that detainees cannot stay there even for a few more months, let alone years. You specify that your objective is to ensure humane and correct conditions of detention. You invite us to ask the Secretary of State at the Régie des Bâtiments about this. Be aware that I did not wait for your invitation to do so. On January 26, I asked the Secretary of State and he replied: "I am well aware of the state of Brussels prisons. My intention is not to leave prisoners in obsolete buildings more than necessary and beyond human dignity, of course. Indeed, detainees in these various prisons should be moved very soon to the new Haren prison." Today, however, you tell us the opposite. You tell us that the majority of the prison in Saint-Gilles is exploitable. Finally, I would like to say that it is indeed quite hallucinating that we have to learn this news through the press. The press is better informed than Members, other levels of power and the first concerned. Minister, every day the prison officers or nurses in Saint-Gilles tell me how much they are in the most complete blur in relation to their transfer to Haren prison. They still haven't visited the premises. They still do not know where the visits will be for detainees under medical supervision. They don't know the working hours. They don't know how to get to the prison. And what do you answer them through our parliamentary questions? You tell them: "Don't worry! The transfer will take place in several phases." Forgive me, but this blur is not acceptable!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u43	Madam President, Minister, the problem of transmigration and the indecent conditions in which people transiting our territory is unfortunately a reality in our country. For example, I can refer to the particular and exemplary case of a camp of transmigrants established on the slopes of the E40 motorway at the height of Fexhe-le-Haut-Clocher, a municipality next to mine. Today, the situation of transmigrants is more than worrying. It appears that prostitution networks use the state of weakness and vulnerability of these people in order to obtain profits that are certainly illegal. The problem is therefore even wider than the only transmigration and indecent conditions in which these people live. This becomes a matter of public safety and a specific form of delinquency. I have had the opportunity to question your colleague Sammy Mahdi on this issue, and he is referring me to you and Minister Annelies Verlinden. It's a habit in this country. I understand that the skills are divided between each other, but I would still like to get some answers. I was also able to interview your regional colleague Philippe Henry, who is competent for the situation in his capacity as Minister of Public Works, through the Walloon parliamentarian Manu Douette. Mr Mahdi told me that several actions are being carried out in cooperation with your services, including the operation of GSM in the context of the detection of smugglers' networks. So, Minister, what are the practical means used at your service level to deal with this problematic situation? What are the actions carried out jointly with the services of the Secretary of State, where appropriate supported by the internal services, in connection with the detection and dismantling of networks of smugglers? Are there collaborative initiatives between your services and your regional counterparts to address this problem and to effectively address related crime?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u44	Madam President, Mr Goffin, I will not refer to other colleagues but will answer your questions. Combating trafficking and trafficking in human beings is a priority. As you said, we have put in place – my firm and I – a specialized team within the federal police force to analyze cell phone records in order to have an overview to identify, arrest and prosecute smugglers. An expert from Europol is part of this team. As you may have read in the press, small but also large police actions are regularly organized to combat this phenomenon. For example, on 15 January last, the Highway action that was carried out is one of the biggest police actions ever organised. Nearly 600 police officers were called upon to occupy 30 devices. Such actions are important; they are not only dissuasive but also enable perpetrators to be caught in flagrante delicto, which can lead to the dismantling of larger networks. In the meantime, it should be clear that Belgian justice is very repressive towards smugglers' organisations. These acts are punishable by heavy prison sentences. I am thinking in particular of the verdict handed down in the Essex case on 19 January, in which the main suspect was sentenced to 15 years' imprisonment and to confiscation of more than two million euros. As soon as this morning, dear colleague Goffin, an Iraqi Kurd was sentenced by the West Flanders Correctional Court to an effective seven-year prison sentence and a fine of €640,000 for trafficking in human beings. My services work closely with the services of the Interior and those of the Asylum and Migration. Necessary consultation forums have also been set up to coordinate everything. For example, there is an interdepartmental unit for the coordination of the fight against trafficking and trafficking in human beings. There is also very good cooperation and a good exchange of information between the various public prosecutor's offices and reception centres. The Aliens Office is also involved in the above mentioned Team Transit. His expertise is indeed an important element. Circular 13/2018 on trafficking in human beings signed by the Minister of Justice, the Minister of the Interior and the Secretary of State is also important. This circular organizes criminal policy in this area. Although the issue of transmigration is broader than that of trafficking in human beings, the circular makes a distinction between the two so that legal measures can be taken if there are indications of a case of trafficking in human beings. Justice is primarily competent as regards the judicial aspect and not as regards the administrative aspect. This circular also asks for the content of smartphones, which we are doing with the Team Transit. It is also clearly stated that effective cooperation between the different services is necessary, in particular in order to carry out the checks. Similar to other European countries concerned in various ways with the problem, namely the Netherlands, France and Germany, converging findings have been made that these transmigrants are victims of criminal groups organised at international level, particularly dangerous and with increasingly sophisticated means. The recent meetings in Val Duchesse and Calais following the unacceptable tragedy you know have led the various countries and the European agencies Frontex and Europol to articulate actions aimed at breaking the business model of these groups. The federal police, on the other hand, have articulated an action plan for the benefit of the integrated police, which is intended to be part of this necessary European response. Multiple and almost weekly meetings are under way at the highest level between the police officers of the aforementioned countries, including the European agencies, in order to provide answers to this serious problem, which, because of its character as an organised and international crime, will not find a solution at Belgian level alone. These include concerted and coordinated control actions at international level at borders, based on criminal intelligence, for real added value through the use of a thermal camera with artificial intelligence on the Belgian coast – which we would like to strengthen by placing even more cameras, in particular with the assistance of the government appreciated by West Flanders –, maritime surveillance with the help of a Frontex aircraft, participation in the Operational Research Unit of various countries, extensive cooperation with customs and Great Britain at the port of Zeebrugge and international judicial police actions targeting these specific criminal groups. Because of the judicial nature, I cannot elaborate on this last part. It is at the heart of the response mechanism that all countries concerned would like to provide. Dear colleague, I also invite you to read the interview given by Prosecutor Frank Demeester and the Federal Prosecutor's Office, Ann Lukowiak, in the De Standaard newspaper last weekend. They describe in a very precise way their fight against this form of organised crime.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answers and for not referring each other's responsibilities to other jurisdictions. I note a whole series of actions undertaken. You invite me to give two readings, including that of the Standaard. Believe me, I'm going to do it! You know the problem like me and we all know it's complicated. You have asylum seekers who go through the traditional asylum process. You have transmigrants, people who decide to cross Belgian territory to try their luck elsewhere. Then, you have the third category, people who are struck by an order to leave the territory. Today, in our country – and I'm sure you can't accommodate yourself either – people are sleeping on highway slopes. You'll tell me all they have to do is apply for asylum, etc. They may also be simply people who cross the country to go somewhere else. Would it not be interesting to think, on a temporary basis, about a status for these people, so that the police stop running after them in difficult conditions, since their will is not to stay with us? But it is also a matter of making them responsible, of course. For hosting transmigrants in an old communal house, my field analysis leads me to see that around these three categories, on the one hand, you have volunteers, who are in good faith, good will and very available, and, on the other hand, you have smugglers who have understood the system and who tell transmigrants that in such and such a place, they may have the opportunity to be fed and welcomed because volunteers are mobilizing. This situation is terribly schizophrenic. On the one hand, there are people who want to help, and they really do; on the other hand, there are people who really deserve to be helped; and then there is the third category, which benefits from the situation. I realize it's very difficult. You do well to devote resources to it. But you will agree with me that in a country like ours, it is not acceptable for people to sleep on highway slopes. Our State must find solutions. Rather than saying that if we create possibilities, even temporary, of status, we will create an air call, I believe that humanly, it may be better than letting people sleep on slopes. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic693x.u46	Debates of the European Parliament 55024819C by Mrs Platteau was postponed.
