ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u1	As you know, questions have already been tabled in both committees on this subject. I propose that all Members refer to the questions put in writing, if you can accept them. We shall then leave the two ministers to speak in turn. I understand Minister Verlinden will give a PowerPoint presentation. Members may then ask questions in order of the size of the group. If there are groups where two speakers wish to speak, because it is partly about Home Affairs and partly about Justice, then that can be done, but let us observe a speaking time of 15 minutes per group. Is everyone okay with that? [[Applause from the left]] ) An Integral Report and a Brief Report shall be drawn up for this meeting. The oral questions shall be annexed to that report. Minister Verdonden, do you take the floor first?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u2	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the invitation to explain to Parliament, together with my colleague, our ideas and plans in favour of the integrated police in general and in particular of the federal police, including the federal judicial police, because that is the main subject of debate here. This hearing is part of a series of discussions that Parliament has already held on the federal judicial police, in addition to the topical and urgent debates and the oral and written questions I have received. I too am shocked when I see the footage you were shown. I too am falling off my chair when I hear that there are sighs about prosecuting certain crime in our country. I too am frowning my eyebrows, and more than that, when I read in the newspaper that not all crime can be prosecuted. Of course, that is not a reassuring message. I share that indignation. This indignation has not been expressed in recent weeks, let us say after the start of the hearings in this committee, but has been on the agenda for much longer. I think I can look in the mirror, we have taken up the glove from the beginning and made this work. Security is a core task of the government. That is something that we certainly have to work on within the area of Home Affairs. I have just said in the Committee on Home Affairs that many security aspects require a chain approach, a multidisciplinary approach. Prevention and aftercare are important, but also, of course, the care of our security services. That's what we're gonna do. At the same time, we cannot change the world in one night. There are certain realities. There are past decisions that continue to work to this day. The stones we lay today do not change the world immediately, but they are essential to guarantee the safety of our country in the future. I would also like to refer to the government agreement, in which the priority of security has been highlighted not only for the security services but also for the intelligence services, for example, along with the budget injection that should serve this purpose. That is what we are doing now. I stand with you on the barricades to inject additional resources and people into our security services wherever possible. Like I said, I share the concerns of all of you. I also share the concerns of the Attorney General. I also share the concerns of the Integrated Police Summit, the Federal Police and the local police, which are increasingly faced with brutal crime and cross-border crime. I have already said that we cannot guarantee 100% safety. What we can guarantee is at least 100 percent of the government's commitment to a strong and efficient police force. We must not leave this country to the criminals. That's what we're going for. So you will find in me a partner to ensure the safety of the citizens and to provide our services with sufficient resources. That commitment certainly includes the policemen on the ground, who are responsible for our security. I know that you will all say here later that more needs to be done and that it will not happen soon enough. I share those concerns. But let us think together in particular about how we can move forward as quickly as possible in order to ensure safety. You have seen with us that Operation SKY ECC has produced impressive results. I would once again like to congratulate and express my gratitude to the people of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and the Federal Judicial Police for their daily efforts. We have also been able to count on a number of local police districts. I also thank them. The SKY ECC survey and the huge amount of information cannot paralyze us. Managing for a moment of crisis is not the same as in normal times. We need to learn not only from these times of crisis, but also and above all to set up an organization that can deal with such events and intervene when needed. If we adjust structures at every moment of crisis, we affect the stability of our organization. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to the essence of what has been said in this committee in recent weeks. In my speech, I would first of all like to look at the resources and additional investments made during this parliamentary term in the integrated police force through the additional envelopes of 50, 70, 90 and 100 million. I would also like to refer to Article 114 of the law on integrated police, which is considered important and is a point of discussion. Then I would like to talk about the staffing and recruitment and selection, in particular for the federal judicial police. I'll finish with a look at the future. You will see with me that as much resources have never been released to the federal police as today. No such large-scale recruitment campaigns have ever been launched in the integrated police force. Never before have there been as many policemen in Belgium as today. We are above the European average per capita, as far as the number of police officers is concerned. I have received a few questions from Messrs. Boukili, Depoortere, Pivin and Laaouej concerning the means and budget of the integrated police. I think we can say and confirm that the government is making significant financial efforts. At the end of 2021, the federal police budget was EUR 1.3 billion. This is the highest amount since 2012. During this term, the federal police may also have an additional €310 million in political funding. These additional appropriations amount to EUR 50 million in 2021, 70 in 2022, 90 in 2023 and 100 in 2024. I would like to stress that these means also benefit the integrated operation between the federal police and the local police. In other words, to support the federal police in local police areas. This is reflected in the annual recruitment of 1,600 inspectors and the training of aspiring officers who also benefit the Federal Judicial Police. Thus, it was agreed within the Executive Committee that 150 of the 1,600 inspectors would join the DGJ. For 2022, 2023 and 2024, we will allocate these additional resources mainly to strengthening the integrated police in terms of personnel. I'll come back later. Together with the Minister of Justice, on Friday I will present a multi-year plan to the Council of Ministers to put into practice the promised reinforcement. The plan is based on the following policy choices. First, a strengthening of the overall organization of the integrated police force and, second, a strengthening of the administrative and judicial components of the federal police force. By the end of 2024, we will be strengthening nearly 1,000 staff members compared to the beginning of 2020. This includes funding for an additional 1,600 police officers. We will also provide a necessary reinvestment in existing infrastructure as well as an investment in our new infrastructure, both in terms of ICT and traditional equipment, for both the administrative police and the judicial police. Finally, we also plan to strengthen the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis (OCAM) and the General Inspectorate of the Federal and Local Police (AIG) with these budgets. In this committee, and earlier in plenary, I have heard the criticism that we are destroying all the additional investments through the linear savings imposed. I'll list the savings and investments for you. Not only are the additional resources of the additional policy envelopes spread over the different years of this infrastructure, amounting to 310 million euros, the federal police can also count on additional investments from the European Relance Plan, additional funds for i-Police, 300 million euros over seven years, and input from Justice for the National Technical & Tactical Support Unit (NTSU) of the Special Units. As you can see from the figures, there is indeed a net injection of additional resources into the police. In addition, I do not miss a chance to ask for additional funds for certain projects for the integrated police, as demonstrated, inter alia, the achievement of the sectoral agreement. In my view, these figures show that this government is implementing its commitment to re-financing the police, in particular the federal police and the federal judicial police. If we look at the investments in more detail, you can see that the planned multiannual budget translates the ambition of the government agreement to recruit 1,600 aspirants annually. For example, we provide the local and federal police with adequate and well-trained inspectors. This recruitment represents an investment of EUR 30 million per year, including the salary of the candidate, the equipment and the subsidy for the schools that train the aspirants. The current budget for the grants to the provincial police schools allows for around 1,000 prospective inspectors to be financed, in accordance with the existing royal decree which lays down the funding contribution per candidate. In order to meet the ambitious target of 1,600 new aspirants per year, additional funds, namely EUR 250 000, are also provided for specific recruitment campaigns that increase the attractiveness of the integrated police as an employer. The other priorities laid down are investment in the new wage engine. The new wage engine has already been put into operation and the measures are being taken to replace the front end. In order to cover the corresponding additional costs for maintenance and implementation, an additional EUR 2.4 million should be made available in 2022, of which 1.6 million are structural. It is certainly no secret to you that this wage engine is at the disposal of the integrated police and is a fundamental aspect of an efficient organisation and a good employee policy. Additional funds will also be allocated to renew equipment, materials and fleet, both at the level of the integrated police, for EUR 2.95 million and at the federal level, for EUR 5 million. For the renewal of the fleet, EUR 1,996 million will be budgeted in 2022. With regard to the federal police budget, this commission has dealt extensively with the question of the application of section 114 of the Integrated Police Act, which I quote for the sake of clarity: "The expenditure on the federal police is the subject of a section of the general budget. The basic allowances for the Directorate-General of the Judicial Police are grouped into a separate organizational division." As the Commissioner General said in this commission, the Federal Judicial Police budget is indeed included in a separate organic division (DO) within Section 17 (DO 42) for the federal police and the integrated operation of the overall federal budget. The initial budget standard for the PJF was set at a total of €305 million in Budget Law 2022. This relates to personnel, operating and investment credits in DO 42, which are allocated separately to the PJF. Like the other components of the federal police (the general police station, the Directorate-General of the Administrative Police and the Directorate-General of Resource and Information Management), the Federal Judicial Police is also provided with joint funding, in addition to this budget section, which is intended exclusively for the Federal Judicial Police. Common appropriations belong to DO 44 (Corporate) whose purpose is to cover common operating and investment costs. In addition, DO 80 funds for integrated operations covering recruitment, selection and training of aspiring candidates are also allocated to the Federal Judicial Police. The use of these DO 44 and 80 municipalities across the federal police makes it possible to use the funds more flexibly. This joint budgetary effort also helps to avoid or limit under-utilization as much as possible. Without these funds actually discussed and distributed within the Federal Police Steering Committee with the additional ad hoc envelopes of EUR 50, 70, 90 and 100 million mentioned. Decisions within the Federal Police Steering Committee shall be taken by consensus, in the presence of the Director General of the Federal Judicial Police. It is a deliberate choice to treat the staff budget in an integrated manner to achieve economies of scale, for example. This beneficial effect also applies to investments, which also benefit the PJF, for example in the ICT field with i-Police for a total amount of around 300 million euros. A completely separate budget for the Federal Judicial Police will not suddenly provide more resources as is currently strongly advocated. On the contrary, the loss of economies of scale – such as the joint purchase of vehicles, radio equipment, computer equipment, etc. – increase the purchase costs for the PJF. Should the operational support of other components of the federal police, such as air support – with helicopters already used at more than 50% for Federal Judicial Police missions – therefore be allocated to a separate budget for the FJP? This seems to me difficult to manage and, above all, inefficient both operationally and budgetaryly. However, ladies and gentlemen, I also understand the demand for predictability and certainty as to the budget available so that the various DGs can set their schedules for the years to come. That is also why I will propose on Friday to the Council of Ministers, together with the Minister of Justice, that the allocation be fixed until 2024 inclusive. In this way, the budget contours for each branch will be known within the steering committee, which will hopefully address these concerns. In what follows, I will briefly outline the staff of the federal police. You can see on this slide the evolution of the staff of the federal police. For those who gamble about the numbers behind this curve, I can say that at the end of last month the federal police had 12,719 employees. That's the highest number since 2014. You can also see on this chart that we have started this legislature by turning over the staff of the federal police. The number of employees was 4,408 FTEs specific to the federal judicial police at the end of April. Since the arrival of this government, the capacity deficit of the federal judicial police has decreased by about 200 employees. Although this is still a deficit of about 430 employees compared to theoretical capacity. I'll come back to that later. Of course, it is not the case that only the federal judicial police have a deficit. The other components of the federal police also deserve our attention, such as railway, shipping, or road police. The increase in the staff of the federal police is continuing. For example, the necessary resources will be deployed by this government to provide a one-to-one replacement for all components. In addition, there will be additional reinforcement for both administrative and judicial police. The multiannual plan provides for an increase in staff to 13,109 staff at the end of 2024, i.e. an increase of almost 1,000 people compared to the beginning of this legislature. That's the highest number of federal police personnel since its inception in 2003. Pro rata, this additional staff injection on horizon 2024 represents an additional investment of 12.4 million for the component of the Commissioner-General, 15.4 million for the general management of the administrative police, 24.9 million for the general management of the judicial police and 3.1 million for the general management of resources and information. The reinforcement of staff at DGJ will be used as a priority to realise the projects "DGJ 3.0', as we know from the Director of the FGP, and "Digital Investigations'. The combined impact of a one-to-one replacement and additional recruitment strengthens the judicial police by 409 units compared to the beginning of this legislature. This means that, compared with 1 January 2022, we will strengthen federal judicial police by 195 units by the end of 2024, to a total of 4,581 staff. Never did the federal judicial police, since 2003, have such a high staffing capacity. It goes without saying that the focus of the recruitment of these additional police officers should be on attracting detectives with special specialisation. I also instruct the Management Committee to do what it can to recruit those specialists. The aim of DGA is to strengthen the DAP Directorate and the Maritime and Aviation Police. These executives also provide support for judicial orders and operations, for example in the port of Antwerp, in relation to drug smuggling, and at airports. The DGR should be equipped with additional equipment to meet the additional recruitment needs, as well as training and equipment of the operational units to be recruited. The management CG is strengthened for the Seacats. As already stated, it is my ambition to recruit at least 1,600 inspectors every year. You know that we achieved that ambition last year and that of the 1,600 inspectors we have as our ambition, 1,200 prospective inspectors will be provided for the local police. For the federal police, that's 400. With the new recruitment concept launched in September last year, we will therefore continue to strengthen the integrated police at the same pace, albeit with a shorter journey, so that the recruited candidates can work more quickly on the services. Amongst other things, through extensive digitisation, the lead time is shortened, without compromising quality. Of course, we need well-educated, high-quality policemen. With this digitization, we can recruit the right profiles in an efficient way. A shorter lead time will also ensure that more candidates remain on board, because with the new procedure, a candidate will know whether he or she can start within 18 weeks of the first test. The lead time is currently around 22 weeks. This has to do with the transitional period, which is what we were talking about in the Committee on Home Affairs just now, because we are still recruiting through the old concept and at the same time introducing the new concept. With the DGR and the Selection and Recruitment Service, we are also currently looking at how we can keep the period between the application of the candidate and the first test in the overall selection procedure as short as possible, so that we can keep as many candidates as possible. As for all sectors, the pressure on the labour market that we know is, of course, also present for the safety professions. In addition to attracting 1,600 inspectors per year, it is also essential to improve the attractiveness of specialist profiles. I can confirm, Mr. Pivin, since you asked me the question, that this is also a particular point of attention within the federal police. Specifically for the judicial police, specialist profiles can be divided into two categories. First, the principal inspectors with specialization and, second, the highly specialized profiles. In the case of senior inspectors with specialization, 81 functions were published for external recruitment in 2021. Only 43 per cent of these positions were filled, resulting in only 35 candidates starting preparatory and basic training in March 2022. At the beginning of 2022, another 90 senior inspectors with specialization were declared vacant. This year, 43 CSI Lab, 43 ICT and 43 Ecofin are planned. Candidates for these functions are currently being selected. The second category, highly specialized profiles, includes ICT specialists, criminal intelligence specialists and other specific functions such as engineers, developers, IT consultants and Ecofin experts. Since December 2020, 122 functions have been published but only 57 have been filled. It is therefore one thing to open positions, but it is also necessary to find suitable candidates for these specialized functions. Several factors are at the root of the recruitment difficulties, such as the highly competitive pay and labour market I have just mentioned. It is therefore still essential to increase the attractiveness of police employment in order to make it easier to attract candidates to these positions. Just because of the need and the difficulty of attracting candidates, we want to continue to increase attractiveness. In fact, we held a thematic committee on this debate a few months ago. In this way, we want to continue to focus on that targeted employee branding strategy. As has already been pointed out, the integrated police also suffers from labour shortages. We must therefore put the police on the market as a strong, attractive and reliable employer. We also need to work on a specific specialised career for certain profiles, targeting talent, targeted communication to certain target groups and establishing partnerships, whose collaboration with Belgian Cycling is a good example. With the recently concluded trade-union interim agreement, we have been able to achieve a substantial improvement for the more than 48,000 policemen. For the first time, an average structural wage increase of 5% is introduced and we are trying to improve career opportunities and working conditions. The budgetary picture of this sectoral agreement amounts to more than EUR 120 million, which is an additional investment, both in the local and federal police. After 20 years of standstill, this agreement contributes to making the profession more attractive. I would like to conclude with a look at the futures and I would like to discuss some thinking and action paths with you. An analysis has already been made of the starting point in 2020, of what has happened in the meantime and of how these investments will bear fruit. However, the work is certainly not yet complete. On the basis of the actions already taken and the lines set out for the future, it is clear that the aspirations of the Attorney General and the representatives of the police were heard and that they were included in the action plan. In response to the indignation about this, it has been under way for some time, as I mentioned earlier. However, there is some time lag between taking decisions and the visibility of their results on the ground. That's what time is about. We have provided additional resources, but we must all realise that the resources are not unlimited. There is a shortage of public resources, possibly even more now than before, with all the crises we have had to face, such as corona, but also the reception of refugees from Ukraine. This has led to huge increases in expenditure. For example, the pandemic involves more than EUR 17 billion, for which money must be found. This certainly puts pressure on other sectors as well. I would like to give this message that this is also a point in the organisation of the police: we need to deal efficiently with the resources and capacity available. Where there are possibilities for rationalization, we must also seize them. We have an above average number of police officers in Belgium and we must therefore continue to ask ourselves how they can best be used to ensure the safety of all citizens and businesses. Together with the police, there is an exercise in rationalisation, I believe, to ensure that we can develop a blueprint for a more efficient and effective organisation. No sacred houses should be spared. It's about location, about collaboration, about the reallocation of basic tasks. If we do not dare to look at that, I suspect that we will be able to repeat this debate very often in the coming years, not only with me, but possibly also with my successors. In the context of the efficient and effective organisation, I believe that the following elements are essential. First of all, innovation. If you ask me, the future of the police will be digital. We need to focus on the digital transformation. The federal police, the integrated police, must have all possible tools available to respond to and guarantee the surveillance of new technologies such as crypto coins, but also cyber detectives. With Sky ECC, we've seen what mass of information we can get out of it. It is therefore logical that the police should not be left behind. In this respect, too, the integrated police should proactively support innovative projects. I appeal to the integrated police to make real attention and space for innovation and digitisation within the organisation and to attract and employ the right people. Otherwise, we will be unable to tackle the new crime phenomena, perhaps not in the next two years, but within ten years. Moreover, it is not the case that fewer people are needed because they are using more digital resources or more data. Those data still have to be processed, as with ANPR cameras or other data we get. So we also need to provide enough people to be able to process that data. In addition, I strongly believe in increased specialisation. Given the crime phenomena that are coming towards us, it is impossible that one size fits all as credo will continue to apply within the police. We need people who specialise in certain tasks. That therefore does not have to be the same specialisation throughout their career. It starts with a good definition of the tasks of the federal police and of the local police. The debate on basic functionalities is taking place today. There is a working group on this, because today's police care is no longer that of 20 years ago. Reading a cell phone used to be science fiction, but is now fixed by every local zone at half a minute. We are seeing a shift there, and so we need to identify the basic functions and core tasks that are more specialised. We also need to decide which tasks should still belong to the federal police and which tasks can be carried out by the local police. There, too, there must be specialization, along with a clear allocation of key tasks. Another concept, I believe, is cohesion. Twenty years ago, a structure was chosen with a local and a federal police force. In the newspapers we hear voices here and there saying that the structure is colliding with its limits. That's what I notice on the premises. I do not think we should throw the whole structure overboard, but we must make clear agreements. 185 local areas must also guarantee the uniformity of the zones, otherwise we will have a totally fragmented landscape in terms of police care, which does not contribute to efficiency, deployment or economies of scale. This cohesion is therefore important. Mutual involvement and the ability to come together to positions and opinions that are important and necessary for the whole of the integrated police force: that is what I mean by cohesion. In this respect, we must look for an optimization of the current structures, because anyone who knows the workings of the various entities will, together with me, find that here and there the unity is missing or at least less visible. Elements which are particularly important to me are flexibility and flexibility. As in other sectors, people rarely sit in the same chair as they started at the end of their careers. If people want to change and learn, then the police are a great organization for that, because there are a lot of different functions. We need to be able to give people a career and opportunities for growth tailored to their own talents and development. We also need to be able to deploy people where they are needed. The structure that exists today is sometimes too rigid for me to ensure that flexibility is possible. This is also seen in the context of the NAVAP and the activation at the end of the career, where there is very little mobility because of the structure we have. That is a pity for an organisation of 48 000 people, in which flexibility and flexibility should be possible. That is also one of the reasons why we put the issue of mobility on the agenda in the qualitative part of the negotiations on the sectoral agreement. I have already mentioned the attractiveness and I repeat that this will be important in order to continue to distinguish us. The cut-off in the labour market means that every once in a while a beauty contest must be made, and so must the police. To this end, we must be able to use modern and contemporary resources. My life, like yours who are active at local level, would be easier if we had fewer budgetary constraints, but that is not the case. I'm regularly at the barricade asking for more money for the police. This can be done together with the rationalisation exercise, but we know that resources are scarce. We must therefore take account of budgetary constraints. Of course, we can only spend a euro once. For me, these are the important yards, directives, action plans for the future. We have taken the necessary initiatives. We work there with all the services. We hope that in the next few months we can also work with you to shape a modern police force. We have also done so in the form of a State General, where an interim event has already taken place. The intention is to distil out concrete recommendations for the police in spring 2023 in terms of funding, scale, core tasks and police education, where quality for the future needs to be monitored. I want to reassure you, too. I will not wait for the recommendations of the States-General to continue to work. When we are walking around on the ground, we feel the tendencies and we feel where the needs are and, of course, we are going to continue to do so, as I have already tried to explain. In line with the chain approach I referred to earlier, we are also working on a draft law on administrative enforcement to deal with undermining crime in the local area, whereby we want to give local authorities tools to act against criminal operators through an integrity screening and an exploitation licence. This fits perfectly within the chain-oriented approach. Of course, we must ensure that we equip our local authorities with this, which has already been discussed. The indirect effect of such an undermining crime is particularly significant with regard to our young people. Our people are working for a white economy, earning an income in a correct way. If we do not tackle the undermining crime in every possible way, our society will bear much greater burdens and its excesses will be far greater than what we may see at first sight. This has been demonstrated, among other things, by the photos of Sky ECC. Such things happened in the past, unfortunately, but were less visible. It's not because it's not visible, that it doesn't exist. We also want to work on this with the draft law on administrative enforcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by giving the floor to the Minister of Justice. In conclusion, I would like to say that, of course, we in the federal government are well aware that the integrated police have huge challenges, in particular the federal police and the federal judicial police. This is already apparent from the previous notes we have discussed with you. The needs, which we have translated on paper, almost explode in the face during site visits or site visits, during direct contact with police officers and with the prosecutor's office. It's very important to me to have that daily feeling with the police work. It is a very important and even essential addition to my regular and structural consultation with police leaders, of course both local and federal police. Also because of this need and the desire to have frequent contact with the premises, I maintain contacts with the prosecutors. You will understand that I would like to explain that, to give you that piece of the story. I received the Attorney General of Brussels on 27 January 2022. In addition to all meetings under the National Security Council, I already spoke to the Federal Prosecutor on 23 December 2020. On February 8, 2022 there was a briefing from Sky ECC, which we also received on March 8, a year after the anniversary of the opening of that file. Of course, we are also discussing matters in the National Security Council and the Strategic Committee on Intelligence and Security, on which I myself and the prosecutors are present and on which the situation was also raised in the federal judicial police. Attorney General de la Serna stated in this House that it was difficult to make an appointment with me. He is now ex-President of the College of Attorneys General, but I had invited him in April, so before the start of these hearings, to a bilateral meeting in my cabinet. Mr de la Serna has not gone into this. I've received an e-mail from him, which I'll read out, not to prove my point, but to show that I'm serious about field visits. "If it is about the hearing of the College of Attorneys General in the Committee on Justice and the Interior, it does not seem appropriate. First of all, I have a duty of loyalty to the Minister of Justice, and I do not intend to leave. Secondly, the problem has been known to the Minister of the Interior for a long time, in particular by the presentation made on this subject to the National Council. Finally, it seems to me more correct that, following the invitation of the two committee presidents, the subject should be dealt with first in Parliament at this stage." So I would like to correct that I did invite him to the hearings, but he took that in a different way. So I was even more surprised than you guys when I heard that I wouldn't want to talk to him or receive him. But that's for the history books, and that certainly shouldn't stop us from moving on. Let me be clear: my door is open to the police, including the representatives of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the College of Attorney General. The line we started in terms of budget and capacity in this legislature to move forward, we certainly want to continue. We want to strengthen the police, together with our colleague in the Justice Department and our colleagues in government. We're sure of that. But that story has not yet come to an end and the visible results of our efforts will hopefully follow soon. I hope I can count on the support of the majority. I have heard the questions and the indignation very well. But I hope that the same support and enthusiasm will be given in approving the increase in budgets and responding to the needs of the integrated police. It's my ambition to leave the police after this legislature better than I found them. A status quo is clearly not an option. As a guardian minister, I persevere in my commitment and continue to take the lead within the government, I remain on the barricades to make a profit where it is necessary for the organisation and for the defence of its interests. Mr President, I hope that we can continue to debate in this committee, that you will provide me and all of us with ideas from all political groups to find as many creative ideas as possible and to provide resources to the policemen who protect us daily, sometimes with all the risks for their own integrity and security. Thank you for your support in the past and in advance for your future support.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u3	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your welcome. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Verlinden for her presentation, which was complete, clear and, above all, clear on the political choices that have been made. I will supplement her in my speech by virtue of my authority. It will consist of five parts. First of all, I will refer briefly to the competence of the Minister of Justice with regard to the police; secondly, to the challenges of organized crime today; thirdly, to the approach we are pursuing; fourthly, to the concrete aspirations of the federal judicial police; fifthly and finally, to our answers to them. I would like to start with the powers of the Minister of Justice with regard to the police. You all know that the Integrated Police Act sets out the powers of the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice in police matters. I am not going to go into details, but at the parliamentary committee of inquiry into the attacks, this shared or joint competence of the Ministers of the Interior and Justice was sufficiently mentioned. In short, the Minister of the Interior is responsible for the day-to-day management of the federal police, including the budget, while I, the Minister of Justice, can manage the judicial police in terms of content but I cannot control the budget. There is one exception: only the investment and operating budget of the NTSU (National Technical&Tactical Support Unit) within the DSU (Directorate of Special Units) is co-financed by the Minister of Justice. This is for the first item on competences. Secondly, to give an idea of organised crime. It has been discussed several times in the hearings. The fight against serious and organised crime today is what the fight against terrorism was six or seven years ago. In recent years, the undermining impact of serious and organised crime, often linked to the cocaine scam through the port of Antwerp, has only increased. There can be no misunderstanding about that. Let me illustrate that with some numbers. In 2021, approximately 90 tonnes of cocaine were seized in the port of Antwerp, again a record quantity. That amount represents a street value of no less than EUR 13 billion. That's a tenfold increase compared to ten years ago. In Latin America's source countries, 157 tonnes were seized in 2021. In the same year 2021, 109 exhalers were arrested in the port of Antwerp alone. A year earlier, there were only 48. If we look at the latest figures of the files linked to Sky ECC, from the start of the operation on 9 March 2021 until the end of May of this year there are 465 files, of which 313 files newly launched by Sky ECC and 152 so-called "enriched" files by Sky ECC, files that already existed, but often with insufficient evidence. The Public Prosecutor's Office and the Federal Judicial Police also explained during the hearings. The figures up to the end of May show that 1,111 persons were arrested, 200 of whom were in newly launched files and 911 in so-called enriched files. For those who talk about follow the money: in the meantime 78.482,818 euros have been seized in these files. Beyond the figures, ladies and gentlemen, the following observations are even more convincing. Organized crime interferes with the traditional social and economic fabric with criminal practices, such as corruption, money laundering, violence and intimidation. Take the example of the city centre of Antwerp and its inhabitants, who, in the context of rules of account, intimidation or diversion between different clans, have been confronted with shootings on houses or with grenade explosions. In the Sky ECC case, we discovered violent kidnappings, cases of torture and settlements of accounts: violence as a service. During the hearings, the prosecution and the police provided examples and we must be wary of comparisons. But we must not be blind to developments in the Netherlands where a lawyer and a journalist were murdered in cold blood. We can even talk today about narcoterrorism in this case. Here too, we see that people in the security world, as well as politicians and journalists, are threatened by serious and organised crime. The following statement by the Prosecutor of the King of Antwerp on 31 December last year summarizes it all: "If you only look at the live phase, the things that came out of it, I have never seen before at the Public Prosecutor's Office in 27 years: beasts, atrocities, tons of money and tons of cocaine. The fact that we're all seeing that shows that they never thought we'd see it. I don't want to be naive, but with Sky ECC and the current results, we have set something in motion between the ears of those guys at home and abroad. Our approach is my third hatch. Robust security services, effective justice and strong administrative enforcement are a must in order to disrupt that illegal market and those criminal income models as much as possible and to reduce crime. That is the commitment of our approach. What the FGP, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary in general have done and still perform in this file is unseen. It has led to a wave of arrests, not only in Belgium but also abroad. We are particularly grateful to the Federal Judicial Police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Justice and Police in general for the enormous efforts and results that have been achieved. These results were only possible thanks to a strong and dynamic FGP, with a strong involvement of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Sky ECC is a game changer in our country, according to the relevant prosecutors, including those of Antwerp and the federal prosecutor, but also the directors of the FGP. Secondly, this government is investing in security and justice. It's not up to me to make the bill of past decades, but the budgets of the judiciary and the police are on the rise. In 2020, the budget for justice amounted to almost €2 billion. In 2022, as I speak to you, it is 2.3 billion euros, an increase of 300 million euros. And in 2024, it will increase to 2.5 billion euros. Of course, there is also a lot of additional investment in the police, as has been mentioned by my colleague. In recent months, I have often referred in the Committee on Justice to the ad hoc and structural efforts of the justice system in the fight against serious and organised crime. In early 2021, 61 additional staff were recruited for the Public Prosecutor's Office and its seat, including lawyers, referenda and support staff, in particular 30 for the Public Prosecutor's Office and 31 for the Office. I did so after the District Attorney of Antwerp and the President of the Court of First Instance came to me asking me to urgently provide additional staff to support the prosecutor, the investigating judge and the zeit, in order to handle Sky ECC's files. These 61 places were filled in in the weeks after and are now structurally anchored. Structurally, these are investments in additional magistrates, including in the fight against organised crime, cybercrime, tax fraud, but also additional magistrates for the criminal enforcement investigation. The investment in the Judicial Order represents an additional 827 people this year, including 116 magistrates. If I have listened carefully to the hearing, I know that these efforts for justice have been cited and appreciated by the representatives of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Nor have we left the police in the cold, as my colleague from the Interior has already said. When my colleague and I were informed at the beginning of the legislature about Sky ECC's tsunami coming towards us, we immediately assumed our responsibility. At the end of 2020, 25 million euros were made available for recruitments within the federal judicial police, especially the FGP of Antwerp and Brussels. You are aware of the results of these recruitment rounds. For the more than 839 vacancies they managed to find a laureate for just over half. 600,000 euros were released. You might think that's a small amount. It is an amount that has been in an account since 2012. That was a donation from the U.S. Justice Department for the merits of our justice and police in the Fanchini criminal case. That's the money we invested in high-tech materials. Up to twice, the Justice Department has stepped up its budget to purchase specific analysis software. The efforts we made at the beginning of the legislature are not anecdotal. They show that we were aware from the outset of the importance of the FGP and of the need for investment. In addition, there have been structural investments. Firstly, we have invested EUR 30 million in the NTSU. Remember that I told you at the beginning that this is the only budgetary power the Minister of Justice has. Resources for additional vehicles were also released at the Council of Ministers in June 2021. The PJF will receive a delivery of 300 new vehicles, which will represent the renewal of one third of the fleet. At my request, the protocol between the Central Seizure and Confiscation Board (CCB) and the Federal Police is being revised with a view to making more seized vehicles available to the police in the fight against organized crime. Thirdly, considerable efforts were made to strengthen the FGP staff. Since the beginning of the legislature, 211 full-time equivalents have been added to the Federal Judicial Police until 30 April 2022. From 4,197 people in October 2020 to 4,408 as of April 30 of this year. Those are the federal police's official optima numbers. This figure is currently the highest in the FGP since the start of police reform. Another equally important point in this context is the coordination structure that was put in place within the Public Prosecutor's Office and the PJF following the Sky ECC case. This coordination structure meets weekly and provides for internal solidarity mechanisms: from one PJF to another, according to the most urgent investigative needs. The beneficiary PJF was often Antwerp's, as you know. But there is also solidarity between the local police and the federal police. Twenty-five investigators from the local police in Antwerp were seconded to the PJF in Antwerp. I do not have to hide that our firm has strongly encouraged such solidarity mechanisms. Moreover, was not the motto of the parliamentary committee of inquiry on the attacks of 22 March 2016 to move from insularity and partitioning to cooperation? I come to the fourth part, the sighs of the Federal Justice Police. We are neither deaf nor blind to that. I think I can say that these sighs can be reduced to four causes: firstly capacity and secondly the lack of qualified surveyors. Thirdly, a lack of predictability and, fourthly, effectiveness. The capacity is therefore the first point. Sky ECC is a crisis situation. The huge amount of data, 1 billion messages, often with direct evidence, leads to hundreds of new investigations. More than the amount of investigations speaks volumes, investigations into the top of the mafia at home and abroad. The mortgage that Sky ECC places on the capacity of the FGP and the police is similar. I'll give you the exact figures. A total of 1,371,102 human hours, divided as follows: 1,01,384 human hours of research capacity, 242,747 human hours of intel capacity, 126,971 human hours of DSU capacity. In this sense, the FGP is at risk of being the victim of its own success. A second problem is the lack of qualified and specialized investigators. Director General Snoeck explained to you in this commission what he was looking for. The problem was not only or not so much a lack of resources, but a lack of attractiveness. Vacancies for computer specialists, analysts, ECOFIN investigators have not or have hardly been filled. A third problem is the lack of predictability in the budget of the judicial pillar. Again, the Director General has developed a clear vision for the DGJ. Unfortunately, he was unable to translate that vision into practice because he did not have enough information about his budget. That was and is still the debate on the famous section 114 of the Integrated Police Act, ladies and gentlemen, and I will return to it. The fourth cause is in question. By the way, I do not claim to have a ready-made answer here. Is the available police personnel being deployed effectively enough? Mr Verlinden has shown the evolution of the staff effectiveness of the Federal Judicial Police (FGP), but I would like to look at the same figures from two other perspectives. First, according to local police morphology, at the end of 2020, 3.312 police officers were active in local crime scenes. Together with the FGP, this brings the capacity in our country to a total of over 7,500 full-time equivalents active in the investigation. That number has also increased in recent years. The capacities of the shipping, rail and aviation police, which also make judicial findings and carry out criminal investigations, I shall not dwell on them. I am also ignoring the DSU, the special units, the renowned and praised team whose performance is also largely criminal investigation. Secondly, according to Eurostat's latest available figures dating from 2018, the average number of police officers per 100,000 inhabitants in Belgium is higher than the average in the European Union and higher than in the neighbouring countries. In 2018, there were 362 police officers per 100,000 inhabitants, France 322, Luxembourg 329, the Netherlands 291 and Germany 295. Otherwise, in 2005, the total police capacity in Belgium was 40,257 full-time equivalents. Last year, in 2021, there were 48.763. In 16 years this means an increase of 20%. You will hear it correctly, more than 20 %. So there's always police capacity, and I don't doubt for a second that all these police entities, both federal and local, give the best of themselves. I want to be clear about that. We can, however, ask ourselves whether the sum sum still leads to a maximum result. In this context, Mr Verlinden, the Commissioner-General and I wanted to find an answer. Finally, what is the answer of politics to the questions of the Federal Judicial Police? My only measure is the provision of services to citizens. Many answers are possible for me, but it is important to improve citizens and safety. At the same time, I plead for some historical awareness. It is not acceptable that whenever there is a security crisis, a terrorist crisis or this crisis caused by organised crime, we blindly repeat the same debates over and over again. We end up doing yo-yo movements. Let me give you two examples. Following the parliamentary committee of inquiry on the attacks, the debate was held on a separate judicial police, with its own budget and budget, with its own recruitment and with a more directing role of the Minister of Justice and the College of Attorneys General. In the end, that model was not chosen. However, four years later, I hear similar voices again for that model. With the optimisation of the federal police in 2014, it was clearly chosen, with the agreement of all police actors, to reduce the central services of the federal police to the maximum, i.e. to deconcentration, in favour of strong arrondissement FGPs. At that time, some 300 functions were so devolved and thus placed from the central services to the districts. I now hear, by some, a plea for stronger central services, because the imagery at central level is inadequate. Imaging is indeed important for good intelligence-led policing. However, do we have to rebuild the central services for this, or can the image also take place at the level of the five major PGPs, each according to its own specialization? It is these yo-yo movements, ladies and gentlemen, that must be avoided. One day we are carrying out reforms with great unanimity and then going back under the pressure of circumstances precipitated by a new security crisis. That historical awareness is certainly sufficient in the committee. We can't let them hunt us blind. While it is clear that the current model may sometimes be under pressure, mechanisms have been incorporated into the law, such as the HYCAP provisions and the mandatory directives. I come to the answers of this government. The answers respond to the four causes of the mentioned malaise of the FGP, namely capacity, attraction, predictability and effectiveness. Firstly, on capacity, the Minister for the Interior has clearly outlined the political choice today. This political choice will be confirmed at the Council of Ministers on Friday by the distribution of extra budgets for the police. In front of me, from the beginning, two principles were paramount. You can read all my statements in the committees and in the plenary. The first principle is that everyone who leaves the FGP should be replaced, one by one. That guarantee now exists. The second principle is that 195 specialist investigators are added. That was the explicit question of the Director General of the judicial police, which he delivered to us in September 2021. That guarantee is also here today. Together with the reinforcement by those 195 investigators and the 211 mentioned staff, we will, by the end of the legislature, provide 409 additional police officers at the FGP, out of a total of 920 additional people for the federal police. I think I can say that the legal pillar is well served by this. I would also like to express my thanks to the Minister for the Interior and her cabinet, together with the Commissioner-General. The chain-based approach we are proposing also requires strengthening the FGP. If we invest in justice, then the FGP must also be able to follow. The Attorney General of Brussels, Johan Delmulle, stated in a committee hearing: "We were strengthened by the Minister of Justice for the criminal investigation into tax fraud, which was good and necessary, but we do not have enough specialized police detectives." He continued: "The strengthening of the public prosecutor's office, which is there, therefore threatens to miss its goal if there are no or insufficient researchers." MM. Pivin, Metsu and Ms. Goethals also asked questions. How are these 195 extra cops distributed now? In concrete terms, of the 195 people, there are 52 in the field of terrorism. The reason is to improve proactive research and information processing. Secondly, 83 people are planned for the organized crime sector. The reason is the investment in a higher number of complex cases, particularly for the growing international drug trafficking. Of these 83 persons, 40 are assigned to trafficking in human beings. Indeed, it is the necessary catch-up in the investment in human trafficking, which has been affected by other cases of organised crime, and the evolution of threats – such as the Ukrainian crisis and others, including transmigration. To those 52 and 83 people, I'm adding 50 people to Ecofin. This is a question asked by several members of this committee. These 50 people will be used to operationalize MOTEMs and contribute to the "follow the money" approach. Fourthly, 10 additional staff, including highly specialized ICT profiles, are recruited to support specific development operations. This gives you, ladies and gentlemen, an additional 195 people. This gives you some concrete examples and illustrates the fact that the DG 3.0 plan? is already in the process of being implemented: this committee has not been waited for to move forward. With regard to Ecofin investigators, 19 senior inspectors were recruited in 2021 and entered training in March this year. In preparation for the training which will begin in March 2023, 42 jobs were opened in Mobility. Second, with regard to interspecialised recruitment in ICT, 14 senior inspectors were recruited during 2021 and entered training as of 1 March 2022. In preparation for the training which will begin in March 2023, 43 jobs have recently been opened in Mobility. Unfilled jobs will be open to external recruitment. The commitments made in 2021 illustrate the increasing recruitment and attractiveness difficulties faced by the Federal Judicial Police with respect to specialist profiles. The effective implementation of measures to increase the attractiveness of the federal police is all the more crucial. I will come back to that later. Within the framework of these two principles, the fight against financial and tax fraud and the "follow the money" approach, I can add the following in response to questions from colleagues Pivin, Chanson and Thiébaut. As regards the extension of the framework, we have made available resources to combat tax fraud at the level of prosecutors and courts of first instance. For this type of crime in particular, an additional budget of €1.7 million has been provided for the recruitment of 6 tax substitutes, 6 experts this year in the public prosecutor's offices, 6 tax judges, 12 clerks and 6 assistants in the courts of first instance in 2022. We also offer them tailor-made training. Vacancies for tax substitutes were published on 1 April 2022. The procedures are in progress. As far as the courts are concerned, the recruitment procedure has already been launched last year and the candidates are known. Almost all posts can be filled. With regard to the "follow the money" approach, we seize criminal assets, among other things, by investing in executing criminal investigators and by means of a specific "follow the money" approach within the Federal Judicial Police. By mobilizing more resources on enforcement criminal investigations, we are looking for the assets of convicted persons to implement fines and confiscations. The 2014 law will thus be systematically implemented. We are planning EUR 1.45 million for the recruitment of 24 additional judicial staff, including 6 Deputy Attorney Generals, 12 experts and 6 assistants. As of 1 May this year, two Deputy Attorney Generals, five experts and two assistants had already been recruited. We expect these additional recruitments to produce concrete results. It's too early to assess it. This is the case with the multidisciplinary investigation teams (MOTEM). This government, thanks to the colleague from Finance, has given a new breath to the College for Combating Tax and Social Fraud, which my Finance and Labour colleagues are chairing and vice-chairing. The Ministerial Committee approved the College's first action plan on June 7, 2021. It includes some 30 projects that will all contribute to the fight against fraud. One of these projects concerns the development of a legal framework for consultation and cooperation between the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Federal Judicial Police and the tax administration in order to combat serious tax fraud organised or not and oriented to the maximum extent to the fight against organised crime, and in particular to enable the operation of MOTEM. In cooperation with my Finance colleague, we have made this cooperation legally possible. For example, 25 tax officers will be assigned the status of Judicial Police Officer, Assistant to the King's Prosecutor, so that they can provide effective assistance to multidisciplinary investigation teams. Work is currently under way to describe the practical implementation of this cooperation in a protocol. We hope that these preparations can be finalized this summer. In the meantime, the Committee also approved a second ambitious plan of action which should contribute explicitly to the fight against tax and social fraud in an international context. In addition to the two principles, the one-to-one replacement and the 195 additional investigators for the FGP, the strengthening of the administrative police services and the services of the Commissioner-General obviously also benefits the judicial work. I mention the reinforcement of the shipping police and the aviation police. The shipping police is important in the fight against the traffic via the Antwerp port and is an important player in the Streamplan XXL, for example in the approach of the so-called extractors, those who extract cocaine from the container. The aviation police are also doing important judicial work at the airport of Zaventem, within the framework of the airport plan, for which I already provided additional resources at the level of the public prosecutor. Mrs Dillen, I now come to your question concerning the consultation. My cabinet and I have been constantly working on this in recent months, in various meetings and in various formal and informal contacts. This was indeed discussed at the National Security Council of 1 December 2021, but the issue was also discussed with the College of Attorney General and the College of the Public Prosecutor's Office at several meetings. There were also, of course, frequent contacts with the Director-General, the Commissioner-General and the Home Office. In summary, these are daily contacts to deal with urgent needs. That started in autumn 2020 when I was briefed for the first time on the Sky ECC dossier. In that consultation, I defended the importance of the judicial pillar. That is a task that is legally mine and I was also responded to by the prosecution. In that respect, the homework was done by the federal judicial police, the prosecutor's office and myself. I come to the questions of Mrs De Wit, Mrs Dillen and Mrs Chanson and Mr Pivin on the DGJ3.0 plan. This plan is the vision that underpins an indispensable redevelopment plan for the Federal Judicial Police and that was designed from 2019 onwards under the leadership of the Director General with the assistance of all central judicial directors, taking into account the demands and priorities of the judiciary. From the beginning, my colleague from the Interior and I supported Mr.Snoeck in this plan – also after receiving signals from the 14 dirjud that they also fully endorsed it. As things have been very different in the past, we have been quick to finalize the appointment of the Director General before the end of 2020. Indeed, the Director General was always appointed only acting. We also gave him input for his mission letter related to his mandate. Of course, this plan occupies a central place there. The implementation of this plan has already begun, as I have just said. The DGJ has taken initiatives to develop certain dimensions. In particular, the aim is to develop new technologies to serve the survey. It was in this context that the first highly specialized profiles were recruited and several technological projects were launched. But this movement must be continued and intensified. This is why the Federal Judicial Police is calling for additional efforts and a sustainable, multi-year budget. Based on the DGJ 3.0 vision, I provided my colleague with a list of what was important to me for the FGP. It is then up to the Minister of the Interior, according to her authority, to look at the whole picture, including the other components of the federal police, in relation to the whole integrated police. The puzzle should then be put in a reading together with other dossiers, such as i-Police and the negotiations on the sectoral agreement. That's not obvious, and it takes some time. We have discussed this with each other, and now the outcome of these discussions is ahead of us. Mrs Ingels, I now come to the reinforcement of staff, on which you have tabled a motion for a resolution. In your text, you ask for a royal decision to be drawn up for the benefit of the FGP, whereby rewards can be awarded for exceptional benefits, modelled on a royal decision that exists at customs. Of course, I know the customs system. It sounds attractive. I have therefore asked the customs authorities, and the administrator-general of the customs authorities has informed me that the customs system has now been abolished. Indeed, such a system was possible at customs through a royal decree of 12 November 2017, as you yourself cite. That Royal Decree amended a Regent Decree of 1948 and made it possible, following various negative advice from the Treasury Inspector, to pay out the final rewards before they were finally abolished in 2018. We have looked at other techniques, such as funds, but they turned out to be anything but obvious. In this context, the 2003 Act imposes strong restrictions. Mr. Pivin asked about the National Security Plan (NSP) and the Framework Note. The National Security Plan and the comprehensive security framework note have never been linked to a specific budget or budget plan. The implementation of the SNP is based entirely on the existing mechanisms for financing the operation of the integrated police. There is a strategic choice mechanism through which planned needs and projects are discussed and validated according to predetermined criteria within the strategic coordination bodies, in particular the Federal Police Steering Committee and the Integrated Police Coordination Committee. For the first cause, therefore, our answer is sufficient capacity. The second cause is a lack of attraction. That is and remains a great concern of the Director-General, and rightly so. However, we do not sit still for that either. From next Friday, the appropriate training routes and shorter recruitment periods will be negotiated to attract such specialized inspectors, the so-called side-intromers. This is happening in the negotiating committee, in the so-called qualitative part. Furthermore, in the past there have been employee branding campaigns. They weren't visible enough yet, not good enough. We ask the Commissioner-General and the newly selected Director-General of Resources, Mrs Van Ryckeghem, to work on this with Director-General as a priority. The Home Affairs colleague also mentioned the amount of money that we are making for this. We believe in the FGP and in the attraction of the FGP, despite the tight labour market. The piste of an adjusted and separate premium for the judicial work also passed through the review, but that would again show such a jojo movement, which I spoke about earlier. After all, the previous government just decided to get rid of the bulk of the premiums. The Commissioner-General also discussed this in this committee and said that this decision was well-considered and that there were other points on the contrary, such as meal cheques, weekend, night and overtime and baremas. Moreover, it has been found that other services, such as the DSU, which still have a specific premium, also suffer from a lack of attraction. The many vacancies that the DGJ placed vacant last year and for which a premium could still be given, but for which insufficient or unsuitable candidates appeared, there is another example of this. In other words, a premium is not the solution. The third problem is the question of the predictability of the budget. I turn to questions from colleagues Dillen, Ingels, Laaouej, Pivin and Boukili, among others, and from the president on section 114 of the Integrated Police Act. Following this discussion and the discussion on Rule 114, I heard Members of this committee say: "Is this really a political debate? Can't this issue be resolved internally by the federal police?" I share the concern of the Director General and of the Public Prosecutor's Office. There must be a clear fiscal trajectory for DGJ3.0 to become a reality. An identifiable, sustainable and predictable budget was still too little for the judicial pillar. Here too, however, I come back to what I just said about the yo-yo movements. In 2018, this Parliament, in particular in the conclusions of a parliamentary committee of inquiry, decided not to return to a GPP, a judicial police at the prosecutor's office, with its own budget, its own recruitment service, led by the Minister of Justice and the College of PGs. What matters to me, ladies and gentlemen, is that the dossier presented to the Council of Ministers next Friday should set out the political guidelines until 2024, with clear predictability. It is now up to the Commissioner-General, with the Management Committee, to ensure implementation in a way that the Director-General of the FGP can effectively translate the vision. This, without jeopardizing the current integrated police system. This integrated operation means that the Federal Judicial Police receives resources through its own organizational division (Division 42), but it also benefits, as my colleague said, from the budgets of the Corporate Division, namely Division 44: "Common Expenditure on Personnel, Operations and Investments of the Federal Police". I come to the final point, the last cause, the effectiveness of the judicial police and of the integrated police in its entirety. In many FGPs, good work is done to a very good extent. Otherwise the breakthrough in Sky ECC would not have been possible. The same goes for local detectives, by the way. There too I see solid and specialised research, adapted to the requirements of our high-tech society. I want an efficient FGP that gives the citizens and businesses value for money, a modern FGP that deals with detective management, in other words, Mr Dillen, who is planning to work, who knows where the resources and the people are going, who, on the basis of criteria and parameters, focuses its efforts on research that can be achieved and where they have an impact. The principles of detective management are now well understood in all the FGPs. Sky ECC has also speeded up in this area, but we cannot keep pumping capacity. We also expect internal efficiency exercises from the federal police. This request is, by the way, expressly in the file before the Council of Ministers next Friday. Is it necessary, for example, for the FGP to have so many places of employment in the provinces, which sometimes do not have 10 people? There are no taboos for me, like I said. It concerns the provision of services to citizens, with respect for the social rights of staff. My colleague and I want such an exercise in all parts of the federal police. This effectiveness transcends the borders of the federal police. Indeed, I hope even more cooperation with the local police, Mr. Pivin. Certain cities and zones have highly developed local detectives. So I do not agree with what has been said here by some speakers, namely that specialised research can only be carried out by the FGP. I think that is an outdated statement. Ask the many attorneys. They will testify to the qualitative work of the many local detectives. Now take the local detective service of the Brussels Police Zone HEADSTAD Ixelles. It has over 300 people, which is more than the FGP in the province of West Flanders. Of course, we need a strong federal specialized detective. That is obvious, but that does not make working with local detectives, even in complex cases, impossible. On the contrary, in various places, as in Antwerp, Mr Metsu, such cooperation is no longer a utopia, but a reality. Even better, collaboration between the two levels of integrated policing is a success factor that determines the effectiveness of our policing model. In concrete terms, the PJF provides quality daily support to the local police in many areas. These include, for example, technical and scientific police laboratories, specialized analysis of digital media by the CCU, the engagement of special units in the event of an intervention, the provision of telephone interception centres or the support of many central services such as the Missing Persons Cell. Strategically, maintaining or even developing these features qualitatively or quantitatively is an integral part of the DG3.0 project. Indeed, some of these developments require additional resources. The aim is to ensure specialization and offer equivalent service throughout the country. As a result, a stronger federal judicial police is a success factor for a more effective local police force. In practice, this time on a purely operational level, investigators at both levels of police cooperate very regularly, sometimes even in mixed teams – as provided for in Circular COL2/2002. At the same time, I hope, together with colleagues, that the digitisation of justice and police can help us to save capacity. For example, look at my Crossborder service. In addition to additional capacity, this internal efficiency exercise should also be carried out. I think that a majority in this House is asking for this. But we even need to go a step further. Everywhere I go, local, federal, in the city, in the countryside, in the edge of Brussels, I hear the same noise everywhere: there is a lack of capacity. This finding contrasts with the fact that we have many police officers in our country, more than the average in Europe. Do we always have to recharge capacity or should we also have the courage to debate the security architecture of our country? In this committee and in some interviews I have heard statements about stronger central services and fewer police zones. We must not avoid this debate. The government shall draw up a plan for this purpose. Indeed, after almost 25 years of police reform, the question arises whether the current model gives the citizen enough value for his or her money. Do we need specialization and scaling? I don't have any taboos. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear: a strong and highly specialised federal judicial police is an absolute necessity in the fight against organised crime. In this context, I would like to highlight the requests made by the highest prosecutors and officials of the Federal Judicial Police. With the orientations that we are taking now, we are making that very clear. But you have understood me correctly: this is just the beginning. There's still a lot of work to be done. The federal police in general and the FGP in particular must work hard on their attraction, without falling into unhealthy competition with the local police. On the contrary, cooperation with the local police and the local detectives of the big cities must be sought more than before. There's no reason not to value those local detectives. Their work is at least complementary to the work of the FGP. They're forced allies. This government believes in a strong FGP. This government also believes in the leadership of the FGP. The Director General, who has come to testify before you, knows very well what he is doing. He enjoys my full support and will continue to enjoy it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u4	Thank you for your explanation, Minister, Madam Minister. We shall now proceed to the debate and the questions. The directive is 15 minutes per group. Mrs Ingels has the floor first.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u5	Thank you, Presidents. I will begin, then my colleague D'Haese will complement. To be honest, I'm a little confused, and I suspect I'm not the only one. We have held two hearings, in which several cases have emerged. We are all angry and indignant, and also convinced of the enormous opportunity Sky ECC offers us. We share that basic hypothesis. However, in the testimonies of the police and public prosecutors, things have come up that are not consistent with what I hear you say today. Mr Snoeck said that in September-October 2021 he forwarded his strategic plan 3.0 to his two custody ministers. Mr Delmulle said that the major challenges of Sky ECC and its vision were once again addressed in the National Security Council of 1 December 2021. Mr de la Serna said he was not welcome. In the meantime, we're hearing something else about that. I can only decide that one of them is lying. If you claim that you have taken the glove and done all kinds of things, have you failed to inform the people who asked you about it, Mr Delmulle and Mr Snoeck? They found it absolutely necessary to testify here last month and called it a unique one. It was kind of a cry for help. Mr Delmull literally said that their questions fell on a cold stone. The guy doesn't just say that, and these people don't just show up here. If you now say: "We immediately took the glove and got to work," did you fail to inform those people about it? What's going on here? We have seen some figures in Mrs Verlinden's presentation on the total amount for the entire federal police. We would very much like to know how much is actually going to the PHPolitics. Mr Van Quickenborne, you are talking about 195 additional staff by the end of the reigning period. Mrs Verlinden's slideshow mentions 409 towards the end of the reigning period. Can you explain that? We have tried to be creative in the search for money, and not just us. Mr Delmulle suggested that we look at customs. You said that it has been abolished in the meantime. That may be so, but could you perhaps explain why that wouldn't work? You don't give any reason, you don't give any argument. Certain things from Mr. Snoeck's plan, his '3.0', you want to carry out, others don't. That will be settled on Friday at the Council of Ministers. Well, that man had a global project. He felt that he had better control over matters and could set more priorities himself by amending the statute and by having resources under his own administration. Is he aware that you won't go along with that? Does he know that you only want to carry out a few points of his plan, thereby jeopardising the totality of the plan? I keep asking myself big questions. We all know this was exceptional. Those people came here a month ago to testify. If what you're saying is true about what you've done, I don't understand the co-existence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u6	A good debate naturally presupposes that we listen to each other in a civilised way. Madam Secretary, I didn't like you very much, but I listened to your words all the more, without non-verbal communication. I've heard everything you've said. I agitate and weigh my words. Actually, you've brought here a disgusting story. You did something du jamais vu. I'll try to objectify and explain. Rest assured, I will remain polite and courteous in persona, but I will be much less in brake if I become concrete. I think that your political listening capacity in the very important department where you are is inadequate. We all live in a state of law. We know our structures and respect them. I would like to start by saying that we have the greatest respect for the people who work in the police and justice departments, so that you will not be able to throw that in the face of me and our group in your reply. We have a sacral respect for the people who embody these institutions. You begin your speech very kindly. Thank you for inviting me. You'll be a little less friendly at the end. I'll come back to that later. After all, I would have liked to have intervened before Mr Van Quickenborne's cartload of figures. Moreover, I have respect for that, because these figures are a good thing, and that is why such a debate serves. However, you are somewhat less friendly in relation to the previous requests. You didn't respond adequately to that. In this story, you spoke completely irrelevantly about prevention and aftercare. Those are strings. Today we are talking about something completely different: it is about the problem of the PHP. You're not really a minister of security anymore. You're a minister of omism. You do not do what you are meant to do, especially first and foremost listen to what comes out of the field. You've completely ignored five cries of distress. I would like to know your specific answer to that. I've had the incredible privilege of doing my internships as a lawyer with the Minister of Justice. I've seen and learned incredibly much there. I've seen a lot of how not to do it. However, let us keep it positive. I don't understand a few things. I want to talk to you about those crying out loud. You've been making your move since October 2020. You weren't in any election or unelectable place, but you're a minister. Maybe that doesn't matter, but those cries do matter. The first cry came on September 2, 2021. That was Mr Delmull's Mercurial speech, not just a speech. He said there that financial and economic and tax crimes can no longer be dealt with in this country. That's what he said in a mercurial, the most important speech of an attorney general, at the beginning of the court year. I assume you heard that cry for help. He then said that in Brussels people should go from 131 to 87 explorers. The second cry came on November 17, 2021. The College of Attorney General drew the government's attention to the need for 1,609 people. The third cry came in an article in Time. The press is the press, but the article had an incredibly flamboyant title: "The FGP is on black seed." I can imagine that, if you read that as Minister of Justice or as Minister of Home Affairs and Security, you will take it to heart. However, not much happened. Not much is yet an understatement, nothing actually happened. The fourth emergency call came from the National Security Council on 1 December 2021. That's a little bit more than a cozy coffee party. In it are the representatives of the prosecution, of the federal judicial police, and they complained about this distressing situation. The Prime Minister promised dialogue. He said he was going to solve that through his Minister of Justice and through his Minister of the Interior. Nothing happened again. The fifth cry came from Mr de la Serna, meanwhile the highest magistrate in the country. He came out of the tower of silence and said in an interview in De Morgen that what is happening can no longer be done. All this has crystallised in the hearings on 11 and 17 May. I would also have preferred that we had everyone together at these two hearings immediately. We did that in two parts. That was understandable from the political point of view of the majority, but it was regrettable and a missed chance that we did not do so immediately. My colleague is absolutely right. One of them's lying. You have a poignant, nonexistent relationship with the highest magistrates in the country. The N-VA Group wonders how you will restore dialogue? You're wiping that off the table here. Is that powerless? Is that arrogance? If the highest magistrates in the country come to the Justice Committee and make a cry for help, along with Mr Snoeck, who cannot fall into deaf ears, that will obviously come to an end. You're not gonna get hurt. You say he answered you in an e-mail that he wouldn't come to you. This cannot be done in a state of law and in institutions that respect themselves in the delicate context of a separation of powers in which we live. Montesquieu would have turned around in his grave if he'd seen the way you look at the trias politician. You do not engage in dialogue with the people you need to engage in dialogue with. You bring a lot of numbers here. We'll keep your promises. We will certainly see to that. However, there are also a few dissonances in it. These can be very easy and relatively easy political statements. We all know that the FGP is badly equipped according to staff numbers. For the N-VA it is not only about quantity, but also about quality. We need to invest in these people. Justice needs that. The Justice Department needs to investigate... The Attorney General has testified before us that it is a pivotal moment in the Belgian Justice Department. I don't want any files left in the Operation Sky. As many files as possible should be dealt with. It takes more than a little cosmetic aesthetics within the Interior and Justice Department. You're giving these people a budget for new cars, but you're only doing it for 60% of what they need this year. For the following years, for 2023 and 2024, the budget is zero euro. In those years, therefore, no cars will be replaced. I can say the same for the laptops. You provide a budget that is clearly inadequate. Your respect for those people on the premises is substandard. Then you're also talking about the personnel plans. You know that it is an absolute demand of the sector to enable recruitment and, above all, mobility to be resumed immediately. How will you do that? We've had very interesting exchanges of views. That's more about the Justice Department about the withdrawal of assets. You have already mentioned some excellent figures, for which I respect them, but we can certainly add a little bit more. I see you nodding in agreement. I have given the example of the bureau of relief and staffing in the Netherlands. We are also waiting here for very concrete and rapid measures to deal with this. We can say a great deal about this, which we will of course do in the coming weeks, but I would like to make one final point for today: administrative enforcement. You say that we are going to provide local authorities with tools. Well, that's a nice thing to say, but what handles are you talking about? How will you actually enable a mayor of a city centre to improve administrative enforcement? I would like to take those handles, but what are you going to do in concrete terms for all those local entities, who must be able to compete at the lowest level with very effective means? We look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u7	Minister, Minister, I will not prolong my speech. I'm less confused than Mrs. Ingels. We have heard a lot of answers and received a lot of explanation. Yes, sir, the alarm has been pulled. It is our job to analyse the problem and see what solutions are available. We have an exchange of views here in committee. We are all free to contribute constructively to solutions. Mr D'haese, your reaction and reply contain a great deal of negativity. You don't think anything's gonna happen. It's a very negative story.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u8	Mrs Platteau, we cannot make a good news show out of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u9	Of course that is not possible, but at the same time we must recognise where the fond of the problem lies. We have seen the Minister's figures and found that the police are also the victims of a policy of savings. The figures are now moving in the right direction. The current government is investing in security. With regard to the criticism you are making, you may have a short memory. You should google 'Jan Jambon savings'. Then you'll get some headlines. Mr D'haese, I give you some headlines. "Jan Jambon has made the country more unsafe." "Shut up about numbers, not having to talk about savings. Jambon's tactic is far from new." "Police Union furious at N-VA." Dear N-VA Group, it would be a credit to you if you were more constructive in the debate. We have heard the cry for help. When there is a crisis situation, it must be able to set something in motion and change things for the better. We see many initiatives taken by ministers. We expect the changes, too, and we expect them from the government. However, I also expect them from the federal police themselves. It is indeed important that this is discussed. In that sense, I share the surprise that there has been or has not been contact with the prosecutor. Madam Secretary of State has read the mail of prosecutor de la Serna. That e-mail must be troubling us. It is important that that relationship can be restored. She's a mutual. Trust must come from both sides. I have heard a lot of things about how we can strengthen the Federal Judicial Police, both quantitatively and qualitatively. That is very important, also for attractiveness. In preparation for the exchange of views, I had put forward a number of questions about the recruitment campaigns and retention policies that are being carried out. I've certainly heard about recruitment cases. However, we need to look at this more closely. After all, a case has been provided with resources to attract staff. Another thing is that we need to be able to find and maintain the specialised profiles. We must also examine how the Federal Judicial Police is organised and structured, including in terms of leadership and career paths that are being made possible. I have certainly received a lot of answers and views on this, Madam Minister. I also had a question about competition with the local areas, because that was not quite clear. The premiums are more interesting there. The question is how can we both work together better? In fact, that brings us to the heart of the matter. We have a lot of police, but how is it structured and how can we make all sections of the police work better together and strive for efficiency gains? Digitisation is also a major challenge. We need to see how we can increase the efficiency of the i-Police project. I will leave it at that, but we will, of course, follow up on the matter further. I am also curious about the interventions of my colleagues. We must all work together to make the Federal Judicial Police, the Police and the Justice Department more efficient and work better.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u10	Madam President, we will be sharing the time with my colleague, Eric Thiébaut. Secondly, I must apologize because I have votes in the Finance Committee. I'm not gonna argue with the N-VA. I just want to point out that the previous Minister of the Interior was from your party, and I have constantly, throughout a whole legislature, questioned him about the lack of resources of certain federal police services, in particular the fact that he was concretizing day by day the disappearance of a very important central service, the OECDFO, on the pretext that the MOTEMs were set up, whereas in the opinion of the actors on the ground, the MOTEMs did not sufficiently fulfil the tasks carried out before by the OECDFO. And, despite many calls, he has never completely reformed anything. I also do not review the non-indexing of endowments to police areas. The list would be a long one. At some point, when some functional skills have been exercised for so many years, it may well be that you do not have enough humility. For the rest, I would like to address our two ministers. I really hope that they will take into account the gravity that is present in our country today, that is, the mafias who - I do not exaggerate - have decided to declare war on our democratic state. What we have been given to hear and see (payments of accounts, blood crimes, the use of heavy weapons against private homes and the forces of law and order, intimidation, corruption, pressure on certain judges and police officers), all this contributes to a finding which is particularly worrying and which calls for the strongest possible response from our State. Of course, it threatens our social and economic fabric. Of course, this creates very serious public health problems for, for example, drug traffickers. But it is also our State, as a democratic State capable of defending public freedoms and public security, that is at stake today. As Mr de la Serna told us in what was finally his last statement as a prosecutor's magistrate, it does not amuse the general prosecutors to come to Parliament and make white cards, etc. I believe that they have a real sense of public interest and when the judiciary - with which we, the legislature, and you, the executive, have to compose on a daily basis in order to make our country work in total - makes an alarm cry of this nature, we must at least hear it and see how we can respond to it. That is why I would like to tell you that, of course, it would be unfair for you to say that nothing has been done. That would be unfair. Things have been done. In your respective departments, you were able to show us that there were a number of advances. But I really believe that given the state of the situation, we are only at the beginning of the road. We think we will have to go further. You will have the full support, either here or within the government, our group and our party. Indeed, beyond the fact that it is unbearable to have an organized crime that seeks to take root in our country, there is also the will and the necessity, in this time of serious economic and financial crisis, to ensure that those who believe that they can enrich themselves in a criminal way can be held accountable for their actions not only through criminal sanctions - fines or prison sentences, but also through confiscation of the loot that they believe they can thus unlawfully collect. This is fundamental, and it is the message that prosecutors general and senior police officers send us. So they say that if we help them and we give them the means in terms of personnel and equipment, it's not spending, it's investment because there's going to be a return. I believe that this is an interesting element and one that can be put on the table of budgetary arbitrations. In essence, I can understand you, Madam Minister, if at some point you do not wish to be dispossessed of the means to be used in certain places when there are emergencies everywhere. I am in a police area where we have also been asked to strengthen the PJF. The first reflex of the head of the body was to focus on the fact that we asked him, as elected officials and agents, to fight correctly against road insecurity, domestic violence and a series of other phenomena, for example, but that if he were deprived of his means, he could not accomplish the zonal security plan - which we are doing in good collaboration with the prosecution. Beware of these transfers of means inside closed envelopes! I plead for a general increase in resources and also for the re-establishment of the OECDFO, a central service of national competence whose central interest was to bring together expertise, police officers trained (in investigative techniques) financial and tax experts from the Ministry of Finance, people from other horizons able to identify the major financial circuits. Because there is no financial crime, no money laundering operation, no big tax fraud to launder the money of these criminals and drug traffickers if there are no brains capable of doing so. We must be able to put intelligence and skill there too. In the view of all, OECDFO had this virtue that it was able to live up to these major issues in addition to being competent at the national level. You explain a whole series of things to us, but the message from senior police officials is to know, for the PJF in concrete terms, what additional means we have in a trajectory, but also as quickly as possible? It's a race against the clock! I would say that this is the major element I would like to address to you: it is a race against the clock vis-à-vis the mafias. They only know the balance of power. Of course, we are Democrats. The procedures and rights of the defence, the special investigative techniques must be respected, and no one disagrees. But it's a race against the clock. The more they rise in power, the greater their economic ability to harm our rule of law will be, and perhaps even, as observed in some countries, irremediable. We can't miss this race!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u11	Thank you both for your comprehensive presentations. I would like to tell you that I have been a member of this committee since 2007. I'm the veteran here somehow and I've met seven or eight ministers of the interior. The only Minister of the Interior who has reduced the resources of the police is your predecessor. At the beginning of the legislature, your predecessor reduced the budget by 3%. We were told, especially in the police areas, that we were not going to index the endowments to the police areas at the time because there would be an index jump. Indeed, there was an index jump decided by the previous government. Then there were the attacks. New means have been devoted to the fight against terrorism. But initially, the previous government had cut all budgets, justice and police, by 3 per cent. You have to have a little memory. I understand the thoughts of my colleagues, but at some point we need some restraint in relation to all this. The story catches up with you. You have already brought new means, and you, the minister and the minister, have recalled the budget increases: 310 million euros for justice, 1,600 policemen per year in the government agreement. Additional resources have been provided by the new government. That's clear. But that being said, it is also clear that the hearings we attended have all shaken us strongly. Images have been shown, alarms have been shouted. I'm joining my colleagues. We can't stay deaf to those alarm screams. They were heard in the media, and in the committee. When you are told that the rule of law is threatened by the Mafia in our country today, a strong political response is needed. That's clear. I said it at the hearings last time, in May. We were practically on 23 May, the date of the murder, just 30 years ago, of Judge Falcone. I recently went to Palermo and passed by this stele which was erected in memory of Judge Falcone. I told the magistrates last time: I do not want us to make a stele in Belgium, in Antwerp, to commemorate the memory of one of our magistrates who would have been liquidated by the mafia! During the hearings, it was explained that dozens of magistrates and police officers are threatened with death by the mafias in our home. This is unacceptable! We must have a very strong reaction to this. If we let this kind of thing settle down without a strong reaction, we will end up in a system like in Sicily and it will be very difficult to reverse. Madam Minister, you have come with figures and proposals for new budgets, reinvestments, which is really very good. But Mr. Snoeck presented us with a clear plan and strategy; he explained that he lacked 1,000 inspectors to be truly effective and that he would need $30 million a year to fund his strategy. I found this strategy convincing and very concrete. A budget is expenditure, but it is also revenue. 30 million is a lot, but the magistrates tell us about 200 million euros recovered from seizures, the 13 billion minister of justice for cocaine – I'm not saying we have to sell cocaine, of course – and large amounts of cash. This money must be reinvested, but it can also be included in our budget. If the magistrates ask us for more means to collect more money in the seizures, it could work. They are given the means to show us the results! When we talk about additional spending, we also need to record the additional revenue in the right place in the budget negotiations! We were also told that there was a problem with the Central Seizure and Confiscation Board (CCB) in order to get the money. In the government agreement that I repeat, it states that "for all offences, the government will invest in specialized investigators to apply the principle of following the money so that crime is combated by the revenues it generates". So, if we record the expenses, I think we should also reasonably record additional revenues. Budget negotiations should be made a little easier by this, I believe. That's what I wanted to tell you. Simply, Madam Minister, in rebuttal, what I would have liked is for you to compare the efforts you were going to propose with Mr. Snoeck's proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u12	Madam Minister, Minister, I am somewhat disappointed by the explanatory statement we have heard here today. It has already been said by the N-VA colleague, she was in stark contrast to what we heard at the hearing a few weeks ago. We were given an image today as if an answer, or at least a start of reply, had been given to the cry for help we heard a few weeks ago. I find your answers disappointing. I have asked many questions and I will look at the report in detail. For the sake of clarity, Madam Minister, I am not saying that nothing has happened yet. I am that honest and correct. I know, Mrs Verlinden, that we cannot change the world overnight. You're right about that. Let me first return to a number of specific answers. Mrs Verlinden, you have presented a detailed picture, on the basis of a powerpoint presentation, thank you, of the numbers of men. I must say that it was mainly about the federal police, not specifically about the Federal Justice Police. In that respect, we remain hungry. The Minister of Justice has said that he shares the Director-General's concerns and that there must be a clear budget. I must say, Madam Secretary of State, that I did miss that in your speech. You may improve me later, but I did not think it was in line with the justified plea of the Minister of Justice, who clearly points to a separate budget for the FGP. Minister of Justice, you have outlined a number of bottlenecks. It was four fairly correct bottlenecks in relation to the situation in the FGP. One of those things, the first bottleneck, is capacity. You said that the Sky ECC operation put a very heavy mortgage on capacity. That is quite correct, but at the hearing we heard a different voice here. Several speakers said that the problem is much older than the Sky ECC operation and that it has only increased as a result. I hear that you will be releasing additional resources in the Council of Ministers next Friday and wish you every success in doing so. You are right to say that any man or woman leaving the FGP should be replaced and that by the end of the legislative term 409 people should be added. Minister, you will have heard the unisono cry, the plea of all speakers for 1,000 extra men. They see a shortage of 1,000 men, not 409 by the end of the legislature. We may be able to ask another question that was not discussed today. Is the capacity in this country fairly distributed? I have the impression that Flanders is certainly not overwhelmed. I refer, for example, to the distress call of the West Flemish Chiefs of Staff this morning. I refer to the rather recent distress call of all 13 chiefs in Flemish Brabant, who still have a different idea about it. At the same time, you say that, in addition to increasing the budget and capacity, there has also been a strengthening of the supporting functions. In addition, you referred to the shipping police. I am free to refer to a ruling of the ACV police union, the Minister of the Interior, which was only two weeks ago in Gazet van Antwerpen, on 1 June. They spoke very clearly about the bankruptcy of the federal police: "After the complaint by the Attorney General about the major shortage of investigators, after the judicial department has indicated its intention to form a separate department and after the shipping police has reported that it will only carry out actions during office hours if there is not very heavy and rapid investment in the federal police, it will no longer exist in the foreseeable future." In the port of Antwerp, the shipping police will only take action during office hours. That raises serious questions. We know from files that a lot of illegal activities in the port of Antwerp occur mainly at night.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u13	May I ask for silence? You can always discuss things in the process. We all want to be able to listen to the speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u14	Mr Minister, another problem you mentioned is effectiveness, and you raised the question of whether the staff present would be used effectively. You announce that you wish to hold a debate on the security structure. I wonder what that will mean. Can you explain this further? In your view, the question arises as to whether the sites should no longer be centralised. You are aware that this has led to severe protests in West Flanders and that this is one of the reasons why people are being chased away, for example because of the movements. Everyone in this committee will agree unanimously that security must be a priority and that crime must be tackled effectively and must also be a priority. At the same time, however, we note that this is no longer possible today. I refer once again to the very interesting hearings that have taken place in this committee. At that time, all the speakers agreed, quite literally, that the current situation is unsustainable and that it cannot continue. I hope you realise that this country is really in a real security crisis. Security's in danger. It is very bad that we had to hear during these hearings that serious crime can no longer be prosecuted and punished. Even more criminally, serious crime will not even be investigated. You can't let that go unmoved. I refer to the figures that we received here during the hearings and to the Brussels project, which was explained very extensively here at the time. You must know that better than I do. Surely it is not possible for the Public Prosecutor and the investigating judge to have to make choices because of the too limited capacity, resources and possibilities of the external partners? It is not possible - as was stated here literally - that the fight against organised and undermining crime is no longer a top priority for the justice and police, precisely because of the lack of resources and manpower. However, that is the reality, as we have heard from the people working on it on a daily basis. Mr. Secretary, you have quite rightly praised the Federal Judicial Police. They are indeed the first and one of the most important links in this effective approach to crime. They play a very important role in undermining, destabilising and combating the criminal environment. We all know that without a well-supported Federal Justice Police, all these different forms of serious crime cannot be dealt with. I can give many examples of this, but unfortunately my speaking time is limited. Madam Minister, Minister, I would like once again to make a plea to increase the resources of the Federal Judicial Police in the face of urgency. Minister, I asked you whether it could not be investigated whether the proceeds of Sky ECC and other major drug files could be used to strengthen the FGP. The federal attorney here has sketched a picture of all these unlikely returns. I assume you've seen those slides, too. It's a lot of money, expensive watches from 100,000 to 2 million euros. I didn't even know there were such expensive watches, but I'm not a specialist in the matter. Try to find out how we can make use of these revenues, which are found thanks to the efforts of the FGP. I'm rounding up. Minister, if you are serious about your numerous announcements to make justice more criminal, please do something about this. Ensure that all criminal offences can be investigated and that efforts are made not only on matters that we have been able to read in the media today, namely the use of mobile phones behind the wheel. For the sake of clarity, I am in favour of this, and I am not here arguing that traffic should not be made safe. However, make sure that not only that kind of fact, but all serious criminal offences can be investigated and prosecuted. Minister, a society expects that from a good Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u15	Minister, Minister, my sincere and sincere thanks to all of you for the exercise that you have conducted here, which is not a simple exercise. You've brought us a lot of answers. Sometimes they are very concrete. Sometimes they're less so. I would like to say that I accepted them subject to analysis because it is obviously impossible to dissect the paintings we received a few hours ago. On this point, Madam Minister of the Interior, I would like to ask you whether it is possible to provide the committee with the equipment investment plans, if not something confidential. This would allow us to see what we are going to do in the years to come, when investments are going to be made in what is material, whether it is small equipment or high-tech equipment. You don't have to answer me right now, but see what's going on. You gave us a lot of answers, and that allows me to remove 12 of the 15 questions that I introduced. I think it's still a nice score for you. There are still three of them, which, perhaps by distraction, I have not heard an answer. The first concerns the revision of the human resources tables. Compared to the current organic table, apparently 500 people were missing, but everyone agreed that the organic table is obsolete. It dates back to the 1990s. Is a revision of the obsolete human resources tables under way? We were told during the hearings that it takes about ten investigators today to complete an investigation, while 15 years ago it took two. Given the complexity of the surveys, for informatics, advanced analysis, specialized expertise, what are the objectives of a revision of the human resources tables? The second question that I maintain concerns the analytical laboratories, which you have mentioned, but in a rather general way. Given the distress that is sometimes encountered, what exactly are the planned investments in analytical laboratories? What is the trend of work capacity within these groups? What are the objectives, given the solicitation of these laboratories by the federal police and local police? Finally, I would like to know whether the CPPL has sent you requests for access to these laboratories by local police. We had also heard that wish expressed. With regard to the role of Commissioner, during the hearings, speakers called for the possibility of moving towards the office of Chief Commissioner. Minister, a few months ago, you told me that a review of the weighting system for civilian personnel and a bridge between the function of specialized investigator and the rank of Commissioner of Police was under way. What about today's weighting system and new career prospects for more specialized profiles and for becoming Chief Commissioner? These are the three questions for which I did not receive a specific answer during the two presentations. I could sum up the question to one question: how can we now avoid seeing every year that about 50% of the targets are achieved? I hope that with the answers you have given us and the commitments made by your services, as part of your skills, we will achieve a rapid improvement in a very worrying situation described by people who represent one of the most important links in the chain to contribute to the protection of our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u16	It is good that we can have this exchange of views, as a follow-up to the hearings held in recent months with the representatives of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police summit. At that time, it was very clear that there was a great and justified concern in the police and the courts about the situation of the FGP. The Ministers' answers today show that they both share that concern. You have already done a great deal and you will do a great deal to respond to these concerns. That the FGP camp with a shortage of people and resources................................................................................................................................................. The current Minister for the Interior has already taken many steps to remedy this: EUR 310 million extra police budget in this legislature; 200 additional people have already been recruited to the FGP; there is a sectoral agreement for the police, and so I can continue. Today we have learned that there are still a lot of additional efforts on the agenda. Staff growth is continuing; a multiannual plan is foreseen for the use of envelopes with additional resources, with a proper focus on the FGP - one-to-one replacement of tractors - and a further 195 additional people for this FGP. The footage that the federal attorney showed us shoved our noses at the facts and showed us the atrocities of the organized crime gangs in our country. South American drug cartels are present in our country to run drug labs here. They do not hesitate to use their barbaric acts here as well. Cracking the Sky ECC phones provided a huge wealth of information so that many drug files could be forced through. Just last week, we saw two dock workers being arrested on the basis of those Sky ECC messages. Our society is clearly under pressure, which we have been able to hear from a majority and a minority. At the same time, the federal judicial police also encounters its limits. The sighs of the representatives of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the FGP have, rightly, come to us all hard. I have heard Minister Verdonden say very clearly today that she has heard these sighs well and that she meets them with plans that she puts forward. During the hearings, it was said here that you didn't want to listen to them anymore. Your actions prove, I think, to the contrary. You have reached out to speak with Mr de la Serna. He refused your proposal at the time. That puts things in perspective. Let me say, therefore, that my confidence in the former chairman of the College of PG's has been shaken. Hopefully this doesn't reflect on the way the College works. I am pleased to note that this united committee fully supports your demand for additional resources for the police. You literally said it: you stand in front of them on the barricades. I have said it a number of times, even this morning, and I would like to repeat it. I hope that all the other parties to the budget negotiations will be equally firm and consistent, but I have every confidence in it. The challenge before us is to strengthen the FGP and make it future-proof. With the 3.0 plan, the police themselves already have a clear plan for the short and medium term. But we must also dare to look further at the long term. How will we shape our judicial police in the long term? What should be the place of the FGP within our security model? Major issues which deserve our attention and on which different answers are possible, which will have to be examined. The Minister has already outlined a number of pillars on which we need to build these future police forces: innovation, specialisation, cohesion and so on. It also highlighted the internal efficiency exercises to be carried out within the FGP. The Minister of Justice rightly pointed out that we cannot continue to pump extra staff. Dear Ministers, can you elaborate on the possibilities you see for efficiency exercises? I also hear that the offices of directors-general of the federal police are sometimes very well populated. In the case of the DGJ, it seems to be a total of 110 %, more than double what is foreseen in the staff plan. Is that right? Are efficiency gains possible there too? Meanwhile, we must do everything we can to prevent the underworld from further infiltrating the upper world. This requires more than just strengthening our police forces. Our local authorities also deserve to have the necessary tools in this fight. The Attorney General of Brussels also mentioned this. The priority note he gave us clearly states that cooperation with the administrative authorities must prevent criminal organisations from legally bringing their activities into society. As you know, therefore, our group explicitly believes strongly in the concept of administrative enforcement. This is therefore an absolute top priority for us. Recent hearings with experts from the Netherlands have shown once again that this model works absolutely well. If we are all serious about tackling organised crime, then we must also dare to take steps in this area. Madam Secretary, you have our full support in the drafting of your draft law on this matter. We are waiting with a certain impatience and are eager to begin the parliamentary process. Finally, security must be a top priority for all of us. This government has already shown a great deal of ambition in this area. We strongly encourage and support this ambition with CD&V. I hope that all colleagues will share this ambition with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u17	Madam Chair, I thank the Minister and the Minister for their presentations and the various responses that have been given to date. I would first like to apologize to the ministers because I will have to leave the meeting later on for other obligations. I apologize, but I will follow with great attention the answers that will be given to the various questions. First of all, I will not go into the debates between the various majorities, that of today and that of the past. I think that we are facing a rather catastrophic and rather serious situation and that we must act. Responsibility is shared by all governments that have passed in recent years. The stake here is not to know who is guilty of what. I think everyone has a share of responsibilities in what is happening today. The aim is to find solutions and to respond to the specific requests made to us by the actors on the ground. It is in this spirit that I intervene, namely a constructive spirit for finding solutions. In your various presentations, you tell us that of the 1,600 aspirants hired in 2021, only 150 will go to the Federal Judicial Police (FJP). Unless I'm mistaken, the figure of 150 investigators is not a net figure. These are new commitments. Thus, the number of investigators leaving the Federal Judicial Police each year to obtain the net figure is still to be deducted and the time frame for responding to the request for an additional 1,000 investigators is to be determined. Could you tell me the net evolution of the number of investigators at the PJF for the year 2021 and your projection for the years to come? We know that we will not arrive at the 1,000 investigators requested during your mandate, since you tell us that the FJP will be strengthened by an additional 409 by 2024. We are therefore less than half of what is requested by the judiciary and the PJF to enable it to do its job. That figure had been coordinated with the actors on the ground. Again, are the additional 409 staff a net figure that also takes into account departures or is it a gross figure? Mr. Van Quickenborne told us that 19 Ecofin investigators were hired in 2021. Can you tell me how many Ecofin investigators left during the same period? Again, in order for us to have a net figure, do you have any idea of the needs in this area? As far as staff are concerned, we know that there is a problem of attractiveness – this has been said by Mr. Van Quickenborne – for the role of investigator at the PJF, this problem has been mentioned several times in recent weeks, especially in the commission. In the report on the follow-up to the Commission's recommendations, you also gave interesting figures. It was reported that by the end of 2020-early 2021, 656 job offers had been published for the federal police, of which only 21.4% had been filled to date. It is therefore not enough to open jobs, people still need to come to work and jobs are filled. We need to figure out this problem of attractiveness. So you have to ask yourself the right questions without taboos. I would like to ask your position on the following points. It is known that the previous government abolished the investigation bonus, which caused the PJF investigators to lose about 200 euros per month. Mr Van Quickenborne, you say that a premium is not a solution because some services, which still receive a premium, also have a problem of attractiveness. Of course, simply granting a bonus is not a magic solution, but it has an influence on attractiveness and that is what the police unions tell us, which regret the disappearance of this bonus. I would also like to hear from Mrs Verlinden on this matter. Do you think we need to go back to abolishing this premium? Was this discussed with the actors on the ground? We know that we have an annual discussion of NAPAP funding. In fact, there was a great mobilization by the police last year when it came to the government's plans to abolish NAPAP. To put an end to these discussions, should we not create a genuine end-of-career arrangement with structural funding at the federal level for all members of the police? As you know, the land requires a EUR 35 million increase in the PJF per year. I would like a clear answer to that request. Why didn't you take advantage of the last budget adjustment to invest this €35 million? You say you're investing 24.9 million euros by 2024. This is far below what is required by the field. Why? Has this amount been the subject of consultation with the various actors who have come to testify in this committee? You say there is a shortage of public resources, but we know that the Federal Judicial Police is profitable. The PJF is used to collect money from organized crime and major economic and financial crime, which can be reinvested in public services. Just Sky ECC has raised €72 million, which is double what is requested by the PJF. We lose billions every year because of tax evasion. Investing in the FJP is not lost money, it is, on the contrary, a way to solve this shortage of public resources. I asked you if we could have an idea of the loss of profits due to the current underfunding of the PJF, but I do not think I have received a response. Could a study of these amounts be carried out in relation to the loss of profits if it is not invested in the FJP? If, in an underfunded way, we are able to take EUR 72 million, which is twice the budget requested today, we wonder why we are not going any further. What's blocking it? In the discussions on the last budget adjustment, you indicated that you yourself used this cost-effectiveness argument of the PJF. So, what's wrong? What makes it so we don't put those 35 million in, since everyone will be a winner? The PJF will have the necessary resources, it will be able to do its job well, it will bring money to the state and we can strengthen the various public services. Why don't we put those 35 million? If everyone agrees, what's wrong?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u18	Mr Vice Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your explanation and your answers to the questions raised by the interesting hearing a few weeks ago. Meanwhile, my colleague Katja Gabriels and I have had some contacts with people from the FGP. We have received interesting information, which I would like to share and verify here. It is claimed that there can be no job opening for the DGJ through mobility at present due to a lack of resources. Is that right? The DGJ is looking for specialist detectives and special profiles in key functions. Can you confirm or disprove that? They also said that work in the workplace is sometimes very inefficient, due to a lack of material and tools, such as PCs, smartphones, cars and so on. I've heard stories about employees who have to use their own smartphones for searches. Is there anything going to be done about that? Are the necessary budgets available for this? The hearing suggested that a kind of recovery fund be set up so that confiscated goods and money can be partly returned to the federal judicial police after release. Such a system already exists, namely the Traffic Fine Fund. The FGP asked whether this would be possible, because that way they could be rewarded alongside their betting for their work through tools or other things to support their services. Can that be considered or is that already on the table? Could that be a good idea? There was also talk about the statute and wages. That premium was indeed abolished, but that is not the big problem today. The big problem is that the wage gap with the intervention shifts in local areas, which are well paid for overtime and weekend or night work, is too large, so there is little inflow from that group. By the way, that's the schism between the federal police and the local police. There is much more to be earned in the local police intervention services. You guys thinking about working on that, too? Furthermore, I do not know whether this still applies within the new system, but as far as the influx is concerned, many aspirants who had not yet chosen or had not yet chosen a zone were transferred to the FGP via the large pool in order to receive training. After one or two years, they returned to the place they had chosen, resulting in a great deal of progress. Can you confirm that and is this also endorsed by the management? As far as Antwerp is concerned, the public prosecutor of Antwerp has said twice in the hearing that Antwerp is the world's cocaine turntable. The Minister of Justice has confirmed that it is a serious problem. A plan is being worked out to descend in that ranking, in which we prefer not to take first place. Are you aware of that plan? The boat the local police bought won't make a difference. The shipping police also said that they need more resources and people. Are you aware of the plan to achieve this? Finally, I would like to say, as you have confirmed, that justice has been strengthened. It was also in the coalition agreement and has now been translated into practice. However, I also hear from the FGP that we need to strengthen the chain as a whole, including by assigning more detectives to the FGP and making more instruments available. It's about budgets, but it's also about finding people, training them, motivating them and making them feel good because they have a cool job. Open Vld believes that the right path has been taken, but there is still work to be done, as you yourself admit. I wish you both every success in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u19	Madam Minister, Mr Vice Prime Minister, thank you for the very comprehensive information you have provided today. It was more than a well-stocked sandwich. In the coalition agreement, one of the priority policy objectives was to strengthen the security services. That was necessary. I have already said here a few times that it is quite clear to Vooruit that safety is not being saved, but that it needs to be invested in just to ensure the safety of everyone. The custody ministers today have shown commitment to strengthen the integrated police as an organisation. I am thinking primarily of the recruitment and training of 1,600 aspirants a year. At the same time, investment is being made in the framework, with the renewal of the wage engine and the reinvestment in ICT. That's what I heard here today. Certainly the reinforcement in global IT for federal police is really needed to anticipate the security risks that we can run today, such as cyber attacks. Today we are discussing a major piece on the specific strengthening of the staffing capacity of the federal police. The capacity in 2022 will be increased to 12,719 effectives. That continues to rise to the end of the legislature, so at the end of 2024, to 13.109. On the one hand, we do this by permanently providing a one-to-one replacement of the profiles and, on the other hand, by recruiting extra. We were particularly interested today in what you would do about the pressing situation of the FGP. That is, after all, the real reason why we are holding this final part of this exchange of views here today. The Group of the European People's Party welcomes the signal that the government wants to send out by really focusing on additional investigators for the FGP. It is so important that these specialised profiles are really used, but we must pay particular attention to the pitfalls associated with them. In order to attract sufficient specialist investigators, with profiles such as accountants, fiscalists, IT professionals and so on, initiatives need to be taken to make a career as a detective truly attractive. The National Security Plan 2022 states: "For the specific specialist influx, recruitment is focused on very specific knowledge and on areas of experience, where the fit with the desired specialization is especially important. This is done on three slopes. Firstly, the recruitment of specialist inspectors according to the existing regime and an extension by other degrees. This opens up prospects for a career as a specialist researcher. In a second phase, the recruitment of highly specialised profiles through consultancy, expert contracts or statutory recruitments. Finally, the recruitment of highly specialised profiles as administrative and logistical staff with limited powers of judicial police." I think it is really important to expand the frameworks, but also to take the necessary initiatives to make it attractive enough for those specific profiles in a highly competitive labour market. Madam President, I will leave it at that. A lot of questions have already been asked and a lot has already been said. I will not be able to add much to that. I've said what's most important to me. We will support the government in attracting these specialist profiles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u20	I acknowledge that I am being questioned by your various interventions regarding the response to the judicial police regarding the repeated requests not only of its management but also of the high-ranking judges. If you have done everything, why continue to ask for additional means? I do not think that high-ranking magistrates almost humiliate themselves before Parliament with photos of mutilated bodies, exchanges of couriers between organized gangs, which directly involve magistrates or police officers, simply for a whim or because additional means would be required in principle. I think if they came, it was a real call and what you said, you've been saying it for a few months. They're always the same answers: "We've never invested so much in the police, we've never invested so much in justice and we're doing what we can!" Here we are talking about 35 million euros in particular. I find that this is a matter of the indecency of selling things that have been sold to us on several occasions on the police and the justice system without responding to the 35 million additional requests repeatedly made by the judicial police and the high magistrates. This time, with regard to budgets, you had the honesty to say that if, indeed, there are investments in the police and you inherit a situation that you did not want – I would remind you that each of your parties was in the previous coalition, let us nuance the point! – at the same time, you realize 212 million euros of linear savings on the police! We have still not understood why, in a time, you refinance and, at the same time, you make linear savings. We still don't understand that! It is true that this remains somewhere something that you do not prioritize. You don't say, "On justice and on the police, we won't save money at all." However, that was what the government had done, not the previous one, but the previous one. Justice and the police were immune to any linear economy. I would also like to remind you that in 2014, as you mentioned in part, there were 4,485 units in the judicial police, and the Minister of Justice said at the end of April 2022 that we were at 4,408. So we're lower than in 2014. It is true that, in part, you are recovering a situation from the past. Not only are we lower, but the senior police officers have come to explain to us how their profession has changed with the phenomena of terrorism, cybercrime and organised crime, which is spreading extremely rapidly at all levels of the State and all the new missions that they are required to carry out without the necessary means, not only human but also technical, because these are obviously state-of-the-art investigations that require highly specialized equipment. In this budgetary year, we again tabled amendments on budgetary adjustment. So, if in January we could still hesitate that the government was not aware that there was a need for resources for the judicial police here in June, there is no longer any doubt. The requests have been repeated by the College of Attorneys General, the Judicial Police and a number of other magistrates who have been sounding alarms for many months. Why not include in this budget year the additional request of EUR 35 million? Our amendments deal exactly with this. We don't want to start making a show by saying we need more. Magistrates are asking for €35 million. We have tabled an amendment which has so far been rejected in committee by the current majority. Perhaps by the time the adjustment takes place, there will be some reflection on the fact that this €35 million is a small sum in a federal judicial police budget of $1 billion. It's not much on the federal police budget too, which is $2 billion. It's pretty little. Our amendments concern the 35 million and the elimination of the linear savings that are made again this year. The third amendment concerns the total compensation of NAPAP. It should be noted that there are 4 million euros removed from the Federal Police to compensate NAPAP, i.e. they will look for this from their current staff budget. That is the subject of our amendments. I hope that the government and the majority will still reflect on these three amendments. You know, if at some point the government wants to drop them off itself, I'm in favour. It is not a question of absolutely saying that all the Engaged who have tabled this amendment. It doesn't matter to us. What matters to us is that the police are well-equipped and that they should not sort out the cases to be prosecuted. That is what is important to us. Others have said this: we are talking about additional resources of EUR 35 million, but we often forget to say how much these surveys bring back. We know that the Sky ECC investigation, which you mentioned a lot, rightly, brought back money. With the limited resources that the judicial police have, it has done miracles in this case; this has already made it possible to raise more or less 75 million euros. This EUR 75 million is more than double what the judicial police are asking for, namely EUR 35 million. I think that our criminal investigation police needs to be given special consideration. That's what we're talking about right now. She was always, as I said in other sessions, to other people, the poor relative of the federal police as a whole. She's always been. It was considered that they were doing well and that they should be accommodated. In this case, however, we are talking about something else. It is no longer the poor parent, but the completely naked and scarred parent, for lack of sufficient means. Of course, consideration depends on means, additional staff, state-of-the-art equipment, but also on decent buildings in which police officers can work. If you have not yet done so, I invite you to visit those of the Belgian PJ: uninhabitable orders hover on these premises. How do we react to it? Is it logical for the police to occupy an unsanitary building? I'm talking about the judicial police in Liège. This consideration therefore requires means, as well as attractive status, combined with the possibility of fishing in the private sector for the talent we need – not only investigators, but also highly specialized profiles that are necessary for cutting-edge investigations when, for example, serious crime unfolds. Moreover, it also requires a genuine listening. I mean that it is not just a matter of listening to them, but of hearing them in their distress, which they have come to reveal to us in committee meetings, as well as in the press. I don't think any magistrates are getting out of their reserve to play the hindrances. They really came to describe to us all the distress that is theirs. Above all, behind this phenomenon, organized crime is gaining ground, cases cannot be prosecuted, magistrates and police officers are threatened, state structures are gangrenized by corruption. Of course, it is the rule of law as a whole that is at risk when these additional resources are lacking and when this essential listening for the police is lacking. Everyone gets involved when one of them is shot in the course of an intervention. I would like everyone to be indignant and to feel the same emotion when magistrates come to tell us that they can no longer do so and that they do not know how they will be able to pursue cases or that they doubt the rule of law. I would like everyone to feel the same emotion and to hear this small request of 35 million euros. Of course, you've done things. I'm certainly not saying you didn't do anything. I say that I have not heard anything as a specific response to this EUR 35 million request and that I do not understand how you can stay deaf or miss out. What's blocking it? Is there a majority party that doesn't want it? We must know this in Parliament, in full transparency. We know that resources are not inexhaustible and that there are demands in all sectors. But here we are talking about something that brings money, but also something that is threatening our democratic institutions. This has no price, especially when it comes to just EUR 35 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u21	Mrs. Matz, can you finish your speech? I believe you've made your point. In fact, you are the only one who has taken the 15-minute speaking time in full. I'm saying it's priceless. EUR 35 million is very little in relation to the fundamental principles underlying this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the constructive debate. It's good to exchange views, and if you ask me, it won't stop after today. I will give a number of answers in the order of the statements. We have of course already discussed a large part of the story, but I will do my best to get back to the additional questions that were asked. A number of more detailed questions about figures can be answered in a different way. I shall begin with the presentation by the N-VA Group. Mrs. Ingels, you started with the question of how our story went along with that of the attorneys and the police. I don't quite understand what you're talking about. I do not think we have had a good news show here or have wanted to say that with the efforts that have been made so far, we have reached the end to make it possible to strengthen the FGP and the federal police as a whole. We have underlined this with a number of statements and with my view of the future with regard to matters that still have to be done, such as the projects for the FGP and for the integrated police. In this sense, we certainly take to heart what was said by the services and in the plea of the Attorney General. It is true that we do not yet have a comprehensive answer. Probably never will. We shouldn't have the illusion that someone will ever be able to say that we checked everything out. We're gonna have to keep moving on. I also think that we have gone as far as possible over the last few months, but again, without claiming that we are already there. I have told you before that I always consult with the services. Every week I consult with the Federal Police Summit and very regularly also with representatives of the integrated police and the local police. The budget is certainly part of that consultation. As far as the figures are concerned, I do not think there are many discrepancies between the story I have told and that of Mr Van Quickenborne. In this respect, too, you may have to point out what you were referring to today or at any other occasion. Mr D'Haese, you started by saying that you would not speak in person but in brake. That was probably more between your ears than between mine. After all, I do not know how to interpret your approach to non-election in brake, but that does not matter. I'll leave that on your tab. I would also like to make a comment on your speech. For me, there was some obscuri libelli on that. After all, I am not sure what you wanted to explain. You also spoke of omism. I've learned something. After all, I didn't know omism was a word. I suppose you meant there's still work to be done. That is what we have said ourselves. We have not ignored any cry for help at all. Nor have we been waiting for the cries of need to get to work. We have done a number of things. You're referring to interviews in the newspapers. Of course, we also follow that, but sometimes the problems cannot be reduced to newspaper titles. We must therefore get to work on this and also on the reality of the situation that is taking place. Of course, it's always a subjective story, but I'm not very concerned about my relationship with the magistrates in this country. They too know that I am a partner in the fight that they are fighting and that we are all fighting together against organized crime and smaller crime. We have tried in our explanatory statement today to tell you what we have already done and what we will do. I indicated earlier that my door was always open to further debate. I am of course also aware of the Plan 3.0 of the Director-General of the FGP. We are also partly implementing this with the steps we are taking. Someone has just said that as a minister, I am naturally responsible for the entire police within the structure and context we know. Yeah, that's right. Let me point out that in the agreements we make with the federal judicial police, that position is abandoned. I am a great believer in the plan, in the clarity with which it has been drawn up and in the claims made by Mr Snoeck in the priorities he lists. I'm sure I'd like to get on with that. This is another area where progress needs to be made. It's a plan for the next few years. There will be a phased implementation. The reinforcement we are providing for the FGP, which is today's decision for 195 recruitments, whereby we go to 400 recruitments at the end of the legislative term, contributes to the plan, which Eric Snoeck 3.0 mentioned. Some speakers also commented on the budget. At the end of the legislative period, we are indeed providing an additional EUR 30 million for the FGP for additional people and resources, such as computers and cars. Mrs Ingels already referred to the figures we have shown on the slide about the additional cars. We are providing EUR 1,996 million for the fleet for the coming years. We've already spent a third of that this year. The rest goes to the next few years. That is the total purchase and framework contracts that we launch in such public contracts. Mr D'Haese, I do not really understand what you have said. Of course, we will not be fooled. We have provided additional resources. We're gonna replace people. In the meantime, Mr Boukili has left the Chamber, but I would like to point out that, when we are talking about recruitment, we are talking about additional recruitment. The 195 and the 400 are additional. We also aim for a 1-on-1 replacement of the movers. I would like to emphasise this once again. I have already said something about administrative enforcement. Mr D'Haese, you may not have heard that correctly, but initiatives had already been taken in the previous legislature. We have taken over that stick to land with it now. In the previous legislature there was a lot of criticism about how and the content, of course there is also a moving insight, but I really hope that we can move forward with this because it gives our local authorities additional tools to take undermining crime out of the street and out of the black economy. Mrs. Platteau, you referred to the need for digitalisation. I can only confirm that. I've said before that the future of the police will be digital. Either the future of the police will be digital, or she won't be. It is certainly about major challenges. We invest EUR 300 million in the i-Police project, replacing local licenses that have bought all the zones in the past and are still ongoing with software developers and suppliers. It is not obvious to coordinate them, especially in the light of the rules on public procurement. So that needs to be phased out. We will start from the demand: what is important will be realized in the first phase, and then develop other applications according to the Agile method. Good agreements have been made between the local and federal police. Hopefully, this can also lead to additional savings for local authorities in the long term, as they no longer have to buy licenses and maintain software through external service providers. With regard to competition between local areas, I must say that I do not think a little competition is wrong, as long as this leads to good profiling and a higher attractiveness for candidates. But it must not go crazy towards a two-speed deadly competition, with certain zones or services remaining on the sidelines. We'll have to watch over that. We will also keep that in mind in the recruitment and selection process. Larger zones are to a certain extent considered more attractive than smaller ones, as they can use the economies of scale advantage. This could also be a reason for the small zones to reflect on how best to organise themselves, without talking about a merger or cooperation. In any case, they should not just assist and look at it, but should make the thinking exercise of the larger zones. Solidarity between local areas and federal judicial police at events or other activities of the FGP is not in itself wrong. If we were talking earlier about mobility, flexibility and flexibility, that is of course also the issue there. The Sky ECC operation can be seen as a moment of crisis at which a lot of information became available. But it doesn't always work that way. I therefore believe that it is certainly appropriate to integrate solidarity or loyalty into the organisation, even more so when it comes to major projects or proposals. Mr Pivin, with regard to the revision of the human resources tables, the last organic table is the TO3 which was drawn up as part of the optimization of the federal police. This reform dates back to 2014. The current organic table therefore does not date back to the 1990s. Since 2016, 902 places have been added to this table following measures taken in the context of the fight against terrorism and radicalism. With regard to the analytical laboratories of the technical and scientific police, an investment has been made in recent years to enable the accreditation of analytical tasks carried out in the laboratory. The previous government had decided to establish five accredited laboratories, plus one at the central level. To date, three of them have received accreditation. It is clear that we must continue the work and achieve a result, especially since it is also necessary in the context of international research. We are working with the Régie des Bâtiments, because we also need infrastructure adapted to the work that needs to be done in this area. With regard to the other elements, which I would call qualitative, relating to the status of police officers, I would say that this status is part of the qualitative part of the sectoral agreement that we are negotiating with the unions. Discussions are under way. We hope to achieve a result quite quickly. If I can answer Mr Thiébaut, I will repeat what I have already said. In the dossier which will be submitted to the Council of Ministers on Friday relating in particular to the additional budget to be injected and invested in the integrated police, EUR 30 million will actually go to the DGJ. This will enable us to respond to demands for strengthening and predictability. As Minister of the whole police, it is true that other integrated police services should not be forgotten. Otherwise, we might have to repeat the debate about them. I will send Mr Boukili the requested figures for those who left the DGJ. Mrs Dillen, you said that I had not really said anything or was not sufficiently clear about the separate budget for the FGP. Normally, in the third part of my speech, I went into that and there was also a slide on it. The conclusion is that it is not just about making the budget separately, but mainly about its predictability, so that the management of the FGP and all those involved know in advance what resources are coming and can organise themselves accordingly. That is precisely why, in the decision we are submitting to the Council of Ministers on Friday, we are not only talking about the injection of EUR 70 million this year, but also about the injections of EUR 90 and EUR 100 million, so that all services are aware not only of the FGP, because that is also in the interest of the other services. For example, predictability is maximized. I have just said that there are a number of advantages to the scale if the budget is not completely isolated. All back office and corporate services, such as the purchase of cars and computers, could benefit from a budget, as this would allow for a move forward. I spoke about the EUR 30 million in additional human resources that we are injecting into the FGP. We have discussed this a number of times in the Committee on the Interior. Those resources for the FGP are provided for in the Relance Plan. Of course, the FGP can also benefit from the realisation of i-Police and the NTSU, as Minister Van Quickenborne said earlier. You also mentioned the recruitment and emergency call of the West Flanders and Flemish Brabant police zones. That was one of the questions that we discussed this afternoon, not for the first time, in the Committee on the Interior. We are consulting with the police zones, including those of Halle-Vilvoorde. Following their letter, we immediately had a consultation with them and a new consultation will take place in the autumn. Everywhere I go, people ask for extra resources. It is not the case that some services say that they have resources and that they may be given to another service. In addition to the additional resources that we inject, which are absolutely necessary and justified, we are also talking about the proper and efficient use of resources, especially taking into account the capacity. We'll follow the recruitment. You have probably also been given the figures. We will ensure that enough people can start and then the areas that people can recruit, so that they know who can start with them after the training. Now I come to the shipping police, about which Mr Vandenput made a comment. I also saw that boat in the press. You said you saw a boat. We have already explained in committee that all tasks for the shipping police are still being carried out. Mrs Dillen spoke about daytime assignments and normal working hours, but that is not true. I have already replied to a previous question in committee. All orders for the shipping police are carried out, both during the day, at night and at weekends. So there are no dead periods in the activities of the shipping police. Of course, the shipping police should also be strengthened. In that sense, you can understand my claim to the FGP. Some of the aspirants we recruit will be assigned to the shipping police. Insofar as the shortages in the shipping police lead to ineffectiveness, we will ensure that we can send in so that these activities can continue. Mr Demon, you spoke about the DGJ 3.0 plan. It concerns the organisation of the basic functionalities. What should local detectives do and what should the FGP do? That seems to me to be an important point of attention. In addition, it is clear that cross-border crime and undermining crime have an impact on several municipalities, which is previously part of the FGP. Everything for which the federal prosecutor is responsible is part of the FGP. Local detective work is with the local police. I think we should get that focus straight. This fits in with the discussion on basic functionalities. I would like to stress once again the priority of administrative enforcement, as you have also mentioned. Mr Vandenput, you asked about mobility within DGJ. During the recent cycle of mobility, 20 places were opened to captains, 88 places for specialist captains, 83 places for inspectors and 20 places for specialised ICT profiles. The selections for those profiles are now underway. Places for inspectors who are not filled out, we will open up again to aspirants. Where the places for specialized captains are not filled in internally, we will also open them up to recruitment of new people so that we can attract outsiders. The external selections for these open places are ongoing. As far as the specialist inspectors are concerned, we now have 31 French-speaking and 28 Dutch-speaking external candidates. So we are not quite there yet, but we are close to the number of places that have been opened up. Mr Moyaers, you referred to the specialist profiles. I think specialization is essential. That was also one of the points in my view in the future. We cannot expect everyone within the FGP to do anything. So that's what we're working on. It's an assignment we gave some time ago. When DGR develops a recruitment and selection procedure, it is more a general selection, especially for prospective inspectors. It is essential that DGR, together with DGJ, can find a way of specialised recruitment. To do this as well as possible, we need to know what one is looking for, who one is looking for and how one can achieve these profiles. For example, what we have done with Belgian Cycling will not necessarily stand up for the specialized people we want to reach within the FGP. DGR and the FGP have been working on this kind of creativity and innovative ways of recruiting for some time now, so that they can switch faster. The basic consent has been given for a long time. Now it's time to roll things out. I will end with Mrs Matz's speech. It is true that we have repeated ourselves, but it was also an opportunity for us to take stock. That's what I tried to do. With regard to the EUR 35 million you are talking about, I am also in favour of recovering as many budgetary resources as possible for the police. You know the budgetary context in which we work. As I have just indicated, we are going to invest $30 million in the FJP under this legislature. These resources will be devoted mainly to recruitment and will also be used to invest in computer equipment, vehicles, etc. Perhaps it does not respond globally to the requests, but we will continue to improve the situation of the FJP.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u23	So you're announcing $30 million for the Federal Judicial Police?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u24	Yes, that's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u25	You just mentioned it in your reply, but you didn't mention it in your presentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u26	Yes, I think so. We mentioned it. In particular, we will invest $24.9 million in the recruitment of PJF personnel. In addition, additional resources will be allocated to information technology equipment and vehicles. If we do the math, we get 30 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u27	Let me come back to the reason why it has taken so long since the question was asked in September. In September last year, indeed at the time of the Mercurial of Johan Delmulle, the Director General of the Federal Judicial Police raised his specific questions. They concerned one-to-one replacement, 195 additional investigators, the application of Article 114, namely longer-term provisionability for the budget, and finally a structural strengthening of more than EUR 30 million. Those questions were asked. It is my job as Minister of Justice to support those questions, which I also do in various fora, including in the National Security Council. However, the FGP is one piece of the total police puzzle, and the Minister of the Interior, as has been said, responsible for the police budget, including the FGP, must, of course, take account of the overall picture. You won't be surprised that the federal police have a lot of questions, including in other departments. This means that there is a need to discuss this issue. That debate was also held. In the end, they turned to Parliament because they became nervous about whether or not their September question would be answered. That is the reality, but the reality is also that the Minister of the Interior and I myself made sure that those questions were answered now. I don't know if you've read Belga's message in the meantime. In this, the FGP College says that it is "satisfied that the distress call was clearly heard, picked up by the representatives of the people and also taken over by the government. She welcomes the reinforcement, in particular the release of the budget to recruit 195 detectives and perform one-on-one replacement. Today, that is certainly a step in the right direction." They naturally add that they hope that it can be even more in the long term. That's the sequence. It took time because it is a difficult debate. However, I am pleased that the Minister for the Interior has done what the FGP has requested and I am grateful to her for it. The question about the reasons why we cannot go back to a premium system is relevant and pertinent. I do not want to hide behind the previous government, as it has done a very good job in many areas, but the choice that was made at that time to switch from a premium payment to a functional remuneration did have a meaning. The police were no longer willing to pay on the basis of contributions, but on the basis of the function. By the way, the syndicates also agreed to this step. I am willing to think with you about any system to strengthen the FGP, but it must be feasible. Mr Vandenput, Mr Thiébaut and others spoke about the creation of a fund. The question was why no fund could be organised, a CRIMORG fund, with the proceeds to finance the business. First of all, when such revenues are not structural, it is dangerous to employ staff. One shots must never be used for structural investment. I have already mentioned in my introduction the law of 2003, which imposes budgetary constraints and says that funds should be set up by law and that they cannot be spent on budget appropriations. If the benefit is to be made by several bodies, the practical effect is also very complex. Colleagues, that chapter is not closed for me. The risk, however, is that when a fund is set up for this purpose, funds will eventually be created everywhere in each committee. There will be a fund for social fraud, for Justice, for X, for Y and for Z. In the long run, the Minister for the Budget will ask if there are any resources left. Mr Nones has ever raised the question of why the court fees cannot be financed by what has been paid to the Justice Department. In the long term, however, the budget will be put under such pressure that it will be difficult. I repeat, however, that I am not closed to the idea. I have heard that several Members support it as well. Mr D'Haese, you mentioned a little bit of toothing and hitting the criminals where it hurts them, especially in the wallet. I know the Dutch system. In my opinion, we should also work on a judicial collection agency in our country. After all, we see that the collection of penalty fines is far behind what we are doing in the area of traffic. I'd like to cast a caveat. In fact, the Dutch government agreement talks about systems of withdrawal of assets without conviction and without forfeiture, i.e. a kind of administrative withdrawal. I see you nodding. I must admit that I do not want to go into that too quickly. We live in the rule of law, and for me, the rights of the defence are paramount. When such a withdrawal is made, there must be a conviction by a judge. I am therefore somewhat reluctant to do so. However, I suspect that you did not refer to that system but to the already existing system in the Netherlands. Mr Laaouej – who is no longer here – spoke about OECDFO and the lack of MOTEM in particular. In 2014, the choice was made to deconcentrate the system. Today, we are strengthening the Ecofin cell. To date, there have been 445 investigators. We add 50 people. This is therefore an increase of more than 10%, in particular to operationalize MOTEM. With this government, we have installed the financial MOTEMs, thanks to our colleague in Finance. Mr Thiébaut, as I have already said, we will arrive at EUR 30 million for the PJF (staff and other posts) by 2024. We start with an effort of 13 million by 2022. In 2023 we arrived at almost 23 million and then in 2024 we reached 30 million. That is the increase in the budget we are planning. Mrs Dillen, we are making a considerable effort in terms of numbers. On the one hand, there is the increase that we have already seen, namely more than 210 staff, and on the other hand there are the 195 additional staff. Together, 409 staff are employed. The objective is to strengthen the FGP by the end of the legislature. For the total police, the Minister of the Interior has declared that 920 employees will be added. You'll say it's gotta be a thousand. Director General Snoeck asked us for 195 additional investigators and one-on-one replacement in September 2021. That's a first step. The second step is an internal efficiency exercise for all components of the federal police. The words in this committee are: scaling up and specializing. That's the exercise we're doing. Keys to the security architecture are a mission of this government. If it turns out that additional resources are needed, then that can be discussed. However, we must proceed step by step. We also need to take into account the capacity of these services to fill not only vacancies but also vacancies. Budget has been made available for 839 additional vacancies by the end of 2020. Only half of them were filled in because the capacity was not there. So we can offer a lot, but we also hope that the vacancies will be filled out. My colleague replied to the question about the shipping police. Mrs Dillen, you say that we must ensure that all legal proceedings are investigated. We do have to do that, but we can't do everything in a classic way. There are also alternatives such as the immediate friendly settlement, regrets, pleasure bargaining. These are instruments other than the traditional method of prosecution, but we must also use them to enable criminal prosecution. Mr. Pivin, I don't think you still have any questions for me. Mr Demon, you have asked a number of questions about the issue of organised crime. Strengthening police and justice is one thing, but whatever we will do, I believe in the Mobility Committee, is bring a bill to you to strengthen ports, the port infrastructure that needs to be secured. We have also introduced a number of new penalties, such as the port ban, which ensures that we have a multidisciplinary approach to organised crime. You also asked for some examples of efficiency gains. I was particularly struck by a conversation I had with the Attorney General of Halle-Vilvoorde, Mrs Van Wymersch, who told me that the only magistrate phishing she had in her relatively small parquet was absent because of maternity or parental leave and that she was therefore unable to resolve those matters. We must dare to check with the police, but also with the Justice Department, whether the scale of our work is still effective. After all, the world has changed. There is financial crime and organised crime, but also computer crime, and that requires us to think differently about how we organise ourselves. Mrs Dillen spoke of West Flanders. I think there's too many pitches. If one has a place of work with less than 10 agents, one can ask oneself whether it is still efficient to organise it in this way. That is the question I would like to ask myself. Those 14 PHPs, with all those different pitches, is that still the right way to work? Should we not work at the level of the resort for certain phenomena? That is the question we want to ask, and that is part of the discussion on security architecture. This debate will also be held for the police zones. Is it normal that where I live, in South-West Flanders, a region that hangs well together, described by Flanders as one region, with one strong intercommunal, there are 4 police zones? I'm asking you the question. Is that normal? I think we've answered all of Mr. Boukili's questions. Mr Vandenput, as far as the plan is concerned, you spoke of Antwerp No. 1. We are fully developing the Power Plan XXL. What I don't think we should do is this. In the Netherlands, for example, they have said that they will organise a new team, the MIT, Multidisciplinary Intervention Team. You have also read the criticism of Professor Cyrille Fijnaut, who you know well. He says that if a structure is added to the existing structure, there is a risk of going back to breeding. The committee of inquiry has just said that we need to leave the islands and that we need more cooperation. The essence of the Stroomplan is, of course, that we ensure that the Federal Judicial Police and the East Flanders and Antwerp prosecutors cooperate well, in order to be able to prosecute much faster, regardless of whether the left bank or right bank is. In addition, there are other elements. There's maritime security. There is cooperation with countries such as the Emirates, so that they are not free ports for those who organise it all. That's what we're doing. We are also thinking about how we can make the ports of Rotterdam and Antwerp work together and share information. Another example is cooperation with the source countries. I was in London last week. I met six ambassadors from various countries in South America. I have asked, if we adopt a maritime safety law, what they will do to improve the security of their ports, to prevent the goods from leaving the source. We must therefore be active in many areas. That's our assignment. Mrs. Matz, you talked about the numbers. I always use Optima's numbers. That's it, isn't it? I think this has nothing to do with the Optima case. I hope so. On the basis of the figures you quote, you said: "But no, in 2014, we were 4,485 units. Today, Mr.Van Quickenborne, you say 408. So you're below that." No, I don't! The figures I have, from Optima – I hope they are the same numbers as those you are going to read – are that in 2014, we had 4,113 people for the Federal Judicial Police, i.e. operational...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u28	This is a table from a Minister's response to a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u29	Look, I'm talking about Optima's numbers! If we make comparisons, we must always use the same numbers. I don't deny what the minister is saying, but I think she talked about other figures, because there are different standards. I've always used Optima's numbers. For the rest, I think I answered the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u30	Mr Minister, first of all, thank you for your answers. What I mean is that when someone asks for something and passes out for months, one finally sits together to make it clear that one cannot do everything at once, but that it is being prepared. Then I guess maybe it wasn't necessary. That was the reason for my question. My second question is about the return of money. The piece on customs is indeed about a specific task, limited in time. I absolutely agree with you that we should not start creating long-term funds and mechanisms. But the part about customs was also about something very specific. I can perfectly live with the fact that you have not yet read my resolution. But with me, it's not about premiums. It's about the "reflux of." We can check that out later. After all, that seems like an interesting slope. One final piece is about the numbers. When I get numbers, I try to understand them. I'm sure you'll excuse me. In the hearings, Mr Snoeck said that he has 4,408 effectives today. He also said that he requested 195 for 2022, not 2024. In the slides shown by the Minister, it says that 409 more will be recruited, bringing the total to 4,581 in 2024. If I deduct 4,408 from 4,581, I'll be 173. I checked it three times. I can count. We only got the slides at 12:00, but I looked at them again. Something's not right in the calculation, and I'm trying to find out what's wrong. That was the reason for my question. If you think it is more elegant, I will ask the question in writing, but I would like an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u31	Madam President, I should like to make it clear that I spoke only seven to eight minutes ago. That's not why I'm going to talk for seven minutes now, I assure you. First of all, I would like to highlight an element of response that has been formulated today and that I have never heard before. We thank you for these amounts. However, I would like to put a flat, because you cut the amount into a part of the investment and a part of the staff. You talked about graduated amounts. You have reached 66 million euros in the rest of the legislature. The PJ's request covered EUR 107 to 110 million for the entire legislature, with only amounts dedicated to the recruitment of staff. We therefore fall far short of the request that had been made. You're giving a partial answer. I very much hope that you will continue your efforts and succeed in finding in the negotiations the full amount requested, namely EUR 35 million. Then, Mr. Snoeck made a very concrete request to be able to hire PJ personnel himself, without going through the central direction of the federal police. Does that seem possible to you, in connection with Article 114 of which we have already spoken? This would allow him to have more flexibility and autonomy for this leadership. You explained that you had the budgets, but that there was some form of oversight of the Minister of Justice. The PJ has a special status within the police, let's not deny it! It is closely linked to justice, and justice is not an administration like any other. Would it be possible to apply this flexibility to recruitment?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u32	I'm gonna take a look at the ministers. Can the answer to the questions still be given?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic822x.u33	To answer Mrs Matz's question, I have no taboo. As already noted, I asked the RDG to consult with the PJF to see how to recruit specialized profiles. In general, I am rather a supporter of the harmonized approach. As the integrated police is discussed, it is important that training and recruitment paths take the same direction. If it can help us, why not? However, it would be premature for me to speak on this point. In any case, I am in favour of all the solutions that can help us recruit as quickly as possible. As you know, by the end of 2020, we had opened 400 functions, but we were unable to fill them because of the lack of candidates. If we can avoid it, it is obviously so much better.
