ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u1	Madam Minister, I am very cautious about interplays; I think that this parliamentary instrument should be used appropriately, but as far as the attacks in Spain are concerned, I have not doubted that I would still like to present an interplay in view of the great importance. A woman from Limburg died in an attack in Barcelona, in one of the European Member States. There has always been uncertainty about the circumstances of the attack, which, by the way, would have been committed by a radicalised terrorist who has also lived and been active in Brussels. There is now even more confusion. A Spanish police commissioner says that the Spanish intelligence service was involved in this terrorist attack. That's a hell of a statement. The man himself is not undisputed, but he made that statement in a special place during a trial before the Spanish Supreme Court. That's not nothing. Eventually sixteen people died, including a woman from Tongeren. Madam Secretary, I would really like to draw your attention to the dossier. I also put questions to the Minister of Justice. It confirmed that the State's security would have re-contacted the Spanish institutions in response to the rulings. Madam Secretary, do you have any additional information? Have you had any contact with the Spanish institutions? What will you do to clarify the situation so that the victims are entitled to what they are entitled to, and that is first and foremost clear?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u2	Madam Minister, Mr Loones outlined all the problems. Despite the strong evidence of the ties between CNI and Es Satty, a judge in the criminal case refused to investigate. Nor has the Spanish Government taken any action to clarify any failure or negligence on the part of the secret services in connection with this tragic terrorist attack. The parties PP, PSOE and Ciudadanos have repeatedly rejected the installation of a committee of inquiry on this issue in the Spanish Parliament. Madam Minister, does the Belgian Government consider that the circumstances of the 2017 terrorist attack and the possible involvement of the NIC should be thoroughly investigated, especially in the light of the Belgian victims? Will you insist that these circumstances be investigated in Spain? Have you contacted your Spanish colleague about this? If not, why not? Will you argue in European and international fora that action is needed in this context to guarantee the right to truth for the families of the victims?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u3	Mrs Samyn, Mr Loones, in reply to your questions about the 2017 attacks in Spain, I can tell you the following. I would remind you that the attacks in Barcelona in 2017 indeed led to the tragic deaths of sixteen innocent people, including a Belgian victim. Those attacks were claimed by Islamic State at the time. Belgium strongly condemned that attack. Following that attack, a trial took place in 2020 and 2021, condemning three persons for their involvement in those attacks. As far as I know, there are currently no other ongoing legal proceedings directly related to those events. As you mentioned, the Spanish media reported statements made by former Commissioner José Manuel Villarejo in connection with a court case against him not directly related to that attack. The Spanish judiciary will have to decide on the credit and the follow-up to these accusations. I had no personal contacts with the Spanish authorities on that particular issue, which, as indicated, deals exclusively with the statement of one person in the context of legal proceedings. I'm not supposed to interfere in the case. We must let the Spanish justice system do its job. However, the Belgian embassy in Madrid continues to follow closely all developments in connection with the tragic attacks of 2017, especially due to the presence of a Belgian victim. I would also like to remind you of Mr Van Quickenborne's reply on the actions taken by the Justice Department in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u4	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Indeed, the court will have to rule on this. However, I would like to call on you to take a more proactive stance on the matter and to establish the necessary contacts at political level to highlight the very special situation. It is not nothing that a policeman, even though he is not undisputed, makes such statements in a court of law before the Supreme Court of Spain, all the more so because one of the deadly victims is a lady from Limburg. Through my motion of recommendation I urge you to make the necessary contacts, especially because Spain does not have the best track record in this area. I do not need to remind you how my phone was bugged by the Spanish authorities when there were proceedings against Catalan politicians, exiles on our territory. At some point, under Mr Puigdemont's car, even a GPS localizer was found. The State Security Services investigated it at the time. It was Spanish equipment. The fact that another Member State makes acts on our territory that are not acceptable does not immediately create an atmosphere of confidence. That is why, Madam Minister, in my motion for a recommendation, I call for real vigilance and the necessary contacts to be made. You must show that we are following the dossier closely, given that we are dealing here with a terrorist attack and a special ruling in the context of a procedure in a European Member State. That terrorist attack has claimed 16 victims, including a lady from Limburg.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u5	I very much regret that, despite the strong evidence of the entanglement between CNI and Es Satty, the Spanish judicial authorities refuse to investigate the facts in which there were still deaths, including, unfortunately, a Belgian victim. Moreover, the Spanish Government has not taken any action to investigate the facts. Not only the EU, but also the Belgian Government, shows a hypocritical and opportunistic attitude. When it comes to the Spanish rule of law, there is always a blind eye. The answer is always that this is an internal Spanish matter. There is no form of indignation, not even about the unjust imprisonment of political prisoners. Even when harsh action was taken by the National Spanish Police, I refer to the violent repression by the National Police in 2017 in the context of the Independence Referendum in which 844 were injured, the elites were silently murdered. I would like to recall that Spain has been criticised several times since 2002 by the United Nations Committee against Torture and by the European Court of Human Rights. These reports refer to'reverend, inhumane and degrading treatment of prisoners'. I'm also filing a motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u6	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Sander Loones and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Sander Loones and Mrs Ellen Samyn and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Affairs and Foreign Trade, and the Federal Cultural Institutions, asks the government - remain attentive to the outcome of the investigation, ordered by Catalan President Père Aragonès, to the allegations made by former police commissioner José Manuel Villarejo; - to establish the necessary contacts with the Spanish and Catalan authorities concerned.' A first motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Sander Loones and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries by Mr Sander Loones and Ms Ellen Samyn and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Affairs and Foreign Trade and the Federal Cultural Institutions, asks the government - to remain attentive to the conclusions of the investigation ordered by the Catalan President Fr. Aragonès concerning the statements of former police commissioner José Manuel Villarejo; - to make the necessary contacts with the Spanish and Catalan authorities concerned in this regard." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Ellen Samyn and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interviews of Mr Sander Loones and Mrs Ellen Samyn and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Affairs and Foreign Trade, and the Federal Cultural Institutions, - referring to the statements made by José Manuel Villarejo, a former police officer and agent of the Spanish secret service (CNI), before the Spanish Supreme Court that the Spanish secret service was aware of the plans for the terrorist attack of 14 August 2017 in Barcelona and Cambrils, but did not intervene 'to divert attention from the Catalan independence issue'; - referring to the fact that, despite the strong evidence of the links between the CNI and Es Satty, the court in the criminal case refused to do so at - having regard to the fact that the Spanish Government has not taken any action to clarify any failure or negligence on the part of the secret services in connection with this tragic terrorist attack; - having regard to the fact that the parties in the Spanish Parliament have repeatedly rejected the establishment of a committee of inquiry on the matter, requests the Government, - urge the Spanish authorities to carry out a thorough investigation into the circumstances of the 2017 terrorist attack and possible involvement of the NIC, especially in the light of the Belgian victims; - to advocate in European and international fora the need for action in this context to guarantee the right to truth for the families of the victims." A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Ellen Samyn and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries by Mr Sander Loones and Ms Ellen Samyn and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Affairs and Foreign Trade and the Federal Cultural Institutions, - Referring to the statements of José Manuel Villarejo, a former police officer and Spanish secret service officer (CNI) before the Spanish Supreme Court that the Spanish secret services were aware of the plans of the terrorist attacks of 14 August 2017 in Barcelona and Cambrils, but did not intervene in order to divert attention from the question of Catalonia's independence; - Referring to the fact that, despite the existence of strong evidence regarding the relationship between the CNI and Es Satty, the criminal court refused to investigate the matter; - in view of the fact that the Spanish Government has also failed to take any action to elucidate these terrorist attacks; - in view of the fact that the PP, PSOE and Ciudadanos parties have repeatedly refused to set up a commission of inquiry on this issue; asks the government - to urge the Spanish authorities to have the circumstances of the 2017 terrorist attack and the possible involvement of the CNI examined in detail, in particular with regard to the Belgian victims; - to advocate in international forums for the need to take action in this context to ensure that the right to the truth of the victims' families is guaranteed." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Michel De Maegd. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Michel De Maegd. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u7	Madam Minister, the situation regarding the Russian attitude towards Ukraine is obviously not new, but has evolved considerably in recent weeks. Raising the number of troops along the border with Ukraine and Russia's increasingly harsh demands for NATO are creating an extremely tense atmosphere at the moment. It's the least we can say. A military confrontation or a raid may not be until today or tomorrow, at least it is possible and we must not deny that there is such a possibility. In recent weeks intensive consultations have been held between the United States, NATO, Russia, the EU and the OSCE. What struck me was that at the first consultation the EU excelled in its absence, although European security interests were on the table. The negotiations that were taking place at that time and are still ongoing at the moment have not yet resulted in a breakthrough. In the meantime, as has been said, the situation is very tense and a military escalation is possible. I can only hope that liberal leaders like Guy Verhofstadt do not suddenly show up in Kiev to throw oil on the fire, as happened in 2014. In any case, it is certain that NATO will increase its readiness. A number of Member States are also sending reinforcements and the US are building up their presence in Eastern Europe. Also the Belgian CHOD, the boss of the Belgian army, says he wants to continue to dissuade, including with the already present F-16's and also a possible deployment through the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force, with some 300 soldiers. According to the CHOD additional F-16s and a frigate would have been promised. These are, of course, matters that were also discussed in the Defence Committee this morning, but I think it is also up to you to give a brief response. There are also sanctions against Russia from various sources. I would have liked to have heard your opinion on that. Do you not think that these sanctions might go against our own European and national interests? The economic sanctions against Russia on the fruit boycott have harmed our own fruit sector and our agriculture. I'm from that area, so I can talk to you about it. Russia has simply bypassed those sanctions by supplying itself elsewhere. With regard to gas supply, we will probably see the same thing: Russia is already concluding agreements with China on this issue. I'm curious to see what your view is on that. As I said, the debate was held this morning in part in the Committee on Defence, but a number of questions are still overlapping. How do you respond to the fact that European representatives were absent from the first US-Russian summit in Geneva, when it is not least a European security issue? Do you agree that this does not improve the political and military credibility of the European states? How has Belgium acted with regard to the NATO-Russia Council and the OSCE talks? How do you, as Secretary of State, respond to Russia's demands? How do you respond to the possible military support Belgium has put in place according to the CHOD? Are you considering other support at the moment? Did Belgium already receive a specific question for assistance or any other contribution from NATO or from Ukraine itself? If so, which one? How did you react to this and how will you do it if that has not yet happened but in the future? Finally, how do you respond to the possible sanction package that is currently being discussed? Do you think that sanctions should be applied at European or national level? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u8	Madam Minister, I am going to be very frank and perhaps say something that some, if not many, think very cheaply. When we see the Russians and the Americans negotiating about Ukraine, we wonder where Europe is. Where is the strong common voice of the European Union when the lives of our Ukrainian brothers and sisters are threatened today by more than 100,000 Russian soldiers amassed on the Ukrainian border near Donbass? I think we have to say it frankly: we do not need less Europe. Here we really need more Europe. We need a real coordinated, strong position on the part of the European Union, to really assert ourselves alongside our Ukrainian partners. But above all one element is even more relevant, because sometimes this crisis has some hints of 19th century: one wonders where Ukraine is. I believe it is important to reaffirm very clearly that the future of Ukraine will not be determined by Moscow or the Kremlin but by the Ukrainians themselves. They are and remain masters of their destiny. As Europeans, it is important to reaffirm these democratic values. If Ukraine today scares Vladimir Putin, I do not think it is because of Ukraine's military risk to the Russian power. I believe that what is frightening Putin is this reaffirmation in Ukraine of democratic values, the reaffirmation of their territorial integrity, their independence from Russia. That's what's scary. It is also these democratic values of freedom that we must defend and that, as Europeans, we must dare to protect at all costs. I also want to say, quite frankly, that we must stop seeing our small economic gains and short-term interests in the trade in arms, oil and gas with Russia. We really must say very frankly that we must guarantee peace. It is the stability of the European continent that is at stake today, in the long term, by imposing a real strategy of deterrence on Russia. It is simply respect for international law of non-occupation and non-action that is at stake. It is really about this strategy of deterrence that I would like to question and hear from you, Madam Minister, about the package of strong sanctions that will be imposed on Putin and his entourage. Is the exclusion of Russian banks from the SWIFT financial trading system on the table? Finally, like our German Green colleagues, what about Nord Stream 2? I believe that we must say this very clearly to Putin: you will not buy the inaction of the European Union with barrels and pipelines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u9	Madam Minister, much has already been said about this. So I don't really need to outline the situation anymore. We all follow the evolution of the situation between Russia and Ukraine every day. There's a lot of conversations going on. Today, if I have understood correctly, between Russia and the United States, which would include Germany and France at the table. So far it has been tried with diplomatic consultations. I can only welcome that. However, we cannot ignore all reports of an increasing military presence in the region. We hear bold statements from all sides. President Biden said yesterday that Russia's invasion of Ukraine would have a very serious impact on the world, similar to the effects of the First World War. I am afraid of such statements. Mr Cogolati has already referred to it indirectly, Europe is at an important crossroads here. Calling it a milestone may be too strong. Europe claims to be a world power and must also have the ambition to be a world power. So it has to be able to show that it counts. Europe must show that it can speak with one voice in such conflicts and that it is capable of taking action, if not for the future role of the European Union on the world stage. I'd like your opinion on this. As far as possible sanctions are concerned, a number of colleagues have already raised the issue of possibly denying Russia access to the SWIFT payment system. However, we must not forget the potential impact on European companies. Of course, the United States does not see any problem in this, as it would not be too detrimental to them. This is not the case for our European companies. In any sanction that may be imposed, it is therefore necessary to weigh everything carefully and to consider what interests we want to place on the scale. According to the latest reports I have read this morning, the European Union would now also be considering imposing export restrictions, if additional sanctions were imposed, to shield Russia from certain crucial technologies and thus to curb their economy. For example, references are made to artificial intelligence. Europe and the United States have the leadership in this. Russia would not find alternatives in China because China has no alternatives. Are there any reports that such sanctions are being considered? I also have a series of questions in the field of defence. My first question concerns NATO's commitment. If NATO is asking for our country's commitment, does there already exist an agreement within the government to deal with it or not? We have also heard that many questions are being asked by the Baltic States, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Have we received any questions from the Baltic States? I have the same question for NATO in general. Have there been any specific requests from NATO to our country to deploy the necessary equipment or personnel if it were to come to a military attack? I have the same question about Ukraine. We have heard that Ukraine has already asked many of our neighbours for support. However, we did not hear anything about possible questions to Belgium. I would be very surprised if all our neighbouring countries were asked for support when we had not yet received that question. I would therefore very much like an answer from you. With regard to the Belgians who live in Ukraine and the Belgian diplomatic staff, this morning I heard a testimony from someone who decided to leave the country. Does Belgium intend to keep its diplomatic staff in Ukraine for as long as possible? Are pistes already being investigated for the possible evacuation of both Belgian compatriots and Belgian diplomatic staff? What other form of support do you think we can offer? Can this happen across different policy areas, for example from Foreign Affairs but also from Development Cooperation or Defence? We have already talked about SWIFT, but I have another question. Have you received any requests from NATO for additional security for NATO locations in Brussels and Chièvres? If it came to an attack, a migratory flow could begin from Ukraine. Several Eastern European Member States have already indicated their willingness to receive refugees from Ukraine. The Czech Republic wishes to give priority to women and children. Has Belgium prepared a plan to deal with any migratory flows?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u10	I understand that you do not see the clock, but you have already exceeded your speaking time. I suggest you finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u11	I was ready, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u12	May I ask the following speakers to take account of speaking time? I understand you don't see the clock, but whoever's connected through Zoom invites me to use a stopwatch.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u13	Madam Minister, relations between NATO and Russia have deteriorated very rapidly in recent weeks. Tensions are running high and attempts to negotiate have come to nothing. According to Jonathan Holslag, specialist in international relations and professor at ULB, NATO, following recent incidents and increased troop movements in Russia towards Ukraine, has called on the European member states of the alliance to be ready to send troops to Ukraine. In addition, the US President stated that if Russian troops crossed Ukrainian borders, Russia would pay a high price. The French and German Heads of Government have recently confirmed this, and they have also spoken in their mouths. These words are part of a logic of escalation which threatens peace in Eastern Europe. Faced with this extremely dangerous situation, our country must continue to engage in dialogue and try to maintain calm. Will you make every effort to maintain the dialogue and steer it towards de-escalation? Does Belgium intend to send troops to Ukraine or Eastern Europe in the event of a conflict? I have been informed that, according to Admiral Hofman, 300 Belgian soldiers have been put on alert, even though Ukraine is not a member of NATO. It is important to break through the disastrous reaction spiral and to bend to a de-escalation spiral to restore confidence. However much the military offer continues, we do not believe that it is an alternative to continuing dialogue and diplomatic dialogue. There are the Minsk agreements and there is the OSCE. This is an important security architecture which, following the policy of relaxation of the Cold War, is also a body to regulate security interests and defuse conflicts. I hope that you will use these instruments sooner and at least call for them to be used permanently.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u14	Madam Minister, I note that a number of groups are recycling this morning's speeches in the Committee on Defence. It is always useful to organise joint committee sessions on such issues. I also note that the political stings are being recycled, Mrs Ponthier. You said, "No Verhofstadt in Kiev." I replied this morning: "No Filip Dewinter at Assad in Damascus either." Madam Minister, some topics have already been reviewed in the Committee on Defence this morning. I now have a number of specific questions for you. I would like to receive a debriefing from the NATO-Russia Summit on 12 January. Why was the EU not involved in the talks between the US and Russia? Are there any plans for a direct dialogue with Russia? In what way will Belgium, NATO and the EU commit to de-escalation? That is a very important word in this regard. Mr De Vuyst, you also used it. It rarely happens that we are on the same wavelength, but your plea for de-escalation is particularly important. I heard some academics, foreign politicians and Belgian politicians this morning in the Committee on Defence argue that Ukraine should become a buffer state. That shocked me. There must be sovereignty for the Ukrainian people. We must leave the decision to the Ukrainians and respect it, both us and Moscow. The events in Afghanistan have demonstrated the European Union's military powerlessness. That has been the case for 30 years: that was already the case in Bosnia, that was already the case in Kosovo, that was the case recently in Afghanistan, and now it is the case again. How can you improve this, for example through the Treaty articles that I have included in my question?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u15	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the situation has already been outlined in detail. For weeks Russia has been pushing up the number of soldiers on the border with Ukraine. Verbal pressure is also being increased, as the Russian Foreign Minister stated in the Duma this morning that appropriate measures will be taken if there is no constructive response from the West. This will increase the chances of an open military conflict, the consequences of which we would all feel at socio-economic level, but also in terms of energy prices and migration. As colleagues have said, intensive diplomatic consultations have taken place over the last few weeks between the US, Russia, the EU, NATO and the OSCE. As early as December, European leaders had sent the warning to Russia that there would be major consequences in a raid in Ukraine, without clarifying exactly what they would mean. The Foreign Affairs Council met on Monday to discuss the matter. Madam Minister, can you give a summary of the discussions that have taken place on this issue, in which the EU was involved? What conclusions were drawn from this? What position has our country taken? What possibilities do you see to prevent a further escalation of the conflict? As colleagues have said, de-escalation is very important. Will you make proposals to this effect in the Foreign Affairs Council? Is there anything else on the table besides economic sanctions? From when will possible countermeasures and sanctions against Russia be activated? What are the terms? Is it a military raid or are cyber attacks or hybrid attacks included? Chief of Defense Michel Hofman stated in an interview that if the conflict escalates further, the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force, to which our country belongs, could be deployed. Have you discussed this with your colleague in the Defense Department? Could you give us a little more explanation on that? Could this have an impact on the planned military operations? I have also put this question to the Minister of Defence, but have not yet received a clear answer. Do you have an overview of EU countries that have sent weapons and/or troops to Ukraine? Has Belgium, like some neighbouring countries, also started planning possible evacuations of our countrymen from Ukraine? If not, why not? How many countrymen are staying there? How many have been registered? What communication's been through? What options do they have if they want to leave the country? Have they been informed about this? Finally, are there any additional restrictions on international airlines flying over Ukrainian airspace from Brussels? We have seen consequences of this in the past, so I would like to know if this has already been discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u16	Madam President, Minister, I am not going to go back to the situation in Ukraine for a long time. My colleagues are doing it a lot. As we know, the situation is changing from day to day and tensions with Russia are increasing, without predicting how far this escalation will continue. As a result of the concentration of Russian troops on the border, fear of an attack is now widespread in the international community. NATO, for its part, has announced a strengthening of its defences in the East. This is denounced by Moscow, which sees it as a desire to exacerbate tensions with information that is described as hysterical. As we know, Belgium defends a dual approach with a desire to deter, while keeping open a channel for dialogue. Minister, in this complicated context, can you take stock of the situation? Can you take stock of the latest European and international meetings on this subject? What was Belgium's message at these meetings? How was it received? What initiatives are being taken at different levels to avoid an escalation of tensions? I hear the wish of colleagues from more Europe, but let us make it clear that Josep Borell and Member States are taking part in the discussions. We are also talking about discussions in Normandy format. The question would be: is the European Union being heard in these different rooms? What scenarios are envisaged by our country for the evolution of this crisis and its possible consequences? Have common positions in the European Union and in NATO emerged as regards the attitude to be taken in the light of developments in the situation? Finally, this weekend, the United States took the decision to recall the families of American diplomats residing in Ukraine. The European Union has not, at this stage, followed this initiative, considering that there is no reason to dramatize the situation. Do you have any information on the more specific reasons that led to these two opposing decisions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u17	Madam President, Madam Minister, I think we must be clear: we are facing the most serious European geopolitical crisis since the end of the cold war, when Europe does not currently have a seat at the negotiating table. That is the point of the situation that worries me the most. I share in part the words of Mr Samuel Cogolati. To date, the European Union does not seem to be able to make a common front. I am referring in particular to Germany's apparent indecision, which, by betting on Russian gas as a transitional energy, seems to be caught up in this matter. It is a crisis which, moreover, reminds those who have forgotten it, how essential it is to emancipate themselves from dependence on energy sources held by non-aligned countries. There is, of course, the draft of a compromise reached in Brest, which defended what remains, in my opinion, a red line: the right for Ukraine to be free to join international organisations of its choice. We cannot under any circumstances allow such a level of interference. If Ukraine wants to join a particular organization, like any sovereign country, that must remain its choice. I fear, however, that our prolonged absence from the negotiations will lead to an agreement in which we, as Europeans, will unfortunately be the losers. Minister, what is our country's position today in this Ukrainian crisis? Do we agree with the US proposal to adopt joint sanctions with the European Union against Russia? In your view, is Germany's position a problem? Does it prevent a clear agreement within the Union? What is your view of the ongoing negotiations between the United States and Qatar to guarantee Europe a supply of gas if Russia tried to instrumentalize its production? How will the European Union make a real way to the negotiating table? What will happen to Ukraine in the event of a failure of negotiations and invasion? Will she be able to count on our support? In what way? Could Belgium intervene outside NATO? Is an invasion plan being developed with our European and American partners? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u18	Madam Secretary, I agree with these questions. The rhetoric and the actions of the Cold War seem to be back. We hear a very aggressive rhetoric today. We see, first of all, the construction of military equipment and armed forces at the border. Also by Anglo-Saxon countries there is a supply of equipment and a build-up of troops. The manipulation of gas supplies is also being brought into conflict. Again, there are spheres of influence, as in the Cold War. Finally, we see Russia and the United States talking about the head of Ukraine without that country being involved in the dialogue and de-escalation of the conflict. The United States and the United Kingdom also use rather alarmist language. They withdraw diplomatic staff, while de-escalation and conflict resolution through dialogue should be the first priority and that the European Union has always been. The problem is that we as the European Union are not involved in the dialogue. We can see that Macron is taking initiatives and taking action in the Normandy format, which was proposed through the Minsk agreements, and also has Friday's discussions with Putin, as we could read in the media. We clearly see two approaches within the European Union: on the one hand, the Baltic States, which look more closely at the United States and NATO, and on the other hand, the direction of Macron, which believes that the European Union should strive for its own security order. That is what he said in the framework of the French Presidency. Firstly, what position does Belgium take with regard to Ukraine? Is our country going more towards Macron or is it taking the side of the United States and the Anglo-Saxon countries, which talk more about sedition and the construction of military equipment? Secondly, are we also considering the withdrawal of our diplomatic representation? Thirdly, what sanctions are we putting forward? Do SWIFT or the cessation of Nord Stream 2 include the possibilities? Fourthly, when will we take action? Will we impose sanctions once there is hybrid aggression, or only in the case of military action? Finally, will we support the Baltic States when they ask for them to build up troops?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u19	Madam President, Madam Minister, many things have already been said, but I would like to add a few things. Russia seems to want war again – I say "again" because it already occupies three countries militarily, namely Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine – the disaster, the conquest by force and the blood of new Ukrainian territories that do not belong to it. She pretends to fear an imaginary threat from a country, Ukraine, which never attacked her and never intended to do so. It denies the right of a sovereign country to choose its alliances and partners. It behaves in brutal colonial power and intends to subject its neighbours to its will through States that it wishes to see become vassal States, if necessary by war. It is again preparing to violate international law and the Charter of the United Nations. It despises the European Union because it believes that we are weak and disunited. Minister, this violence must not be allowed to happen. It must be firmly opposed. It is the security of Europe, our country, the international community that is at stake on the border between Ukraine and Russia. The future of international law is also at stake. Several European Union and NATO Member States are now mobilizing military resources. What about our strategy? What about the strategy of the European Union and NATO? What are the plans, the preparations and the measures planned to ensure that Russia does not flout Ukraine's integrity, so that it does not again flout international law? Is it not time to tell Russia clearly and precisely what it will cost if it attacks Ukraine? Minister, deterrence only works if we know what we're at risk. In that regard, it is time to make clarity. It is also time to put in place clear and firm measures and to ask Germany, for example, to give up their Stream 2. For the time being, Russia does not seem to be impressed by the threats to it. It considers that countermeasures are not such as to cause it to give up assaulting Ukraine. For our part, it is time to see what our strategy will be, to see what economic, financial and military resources could be implemented. I would also like you to let me know exactly what is happening to NATO's military deployment? Is it a matter of enforcing our borders, or is it a matter of helping Ukraine, if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u20	Madam Chair, Minister, last week we wanted to ask questions, but everything has been postponed to this day. This morning, we had a meeting of the Foreign Missions Monitoring Committee with the same debate and a meeting of the Defence Committee with the same debate. This afternoon, in this committee, we have the same debate again. And no doubt that in plenary tomorrow we will also have questions because a Kern is meeting on the subject tonight. There is no doubt that Mr Franken will come back not with an inquiry, but with questions. This will make us the fourth test tomorrow, not counting the statements in one direction or the other. And then there's all this climate we're discovering through the press. We have the impression that some people want us to go to war. I am in favour of dialogue and the continuation of dialogue at all costs in order to succeed. For if it goes wrong, it will happen at home and not in the United States or Russia. This will happen in Ukraine and perhaps also in our territory. This anxiety climate must be combated. There was Brest. We don't know exactly what happened there. It is to be regretted that Europe is in the corridor as chess players – Putin and Biden – discuss strategies. In any case, preparations are under way. We must not necessarily accept anything NATO wants. We must recall the decision-making procedures as they exist and the role we can play as a national Parliament, as well as as the authority and ally, as well as the other partners, with the right to say no. This morning, the Minister of Defence was told that there are plans to extend a canal and put in additional railway lines. We cannot accept everything that NATO is asking for in a logic that seems to be "we're going to go to show what we can do". Watch out for such strategies because if you fall into this trap, you know when you start, but not when it ends! On the other hand, the same people are always heard. Perhaps we should ask the Russian ambassador what he thinks. It may also be necessary to avoid the use of sanctions for sanctions that have the effect of a mosquito bite on a rhinoceros shell for some.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u21	Madam Chair, since I tabled a question and it was not on the agenda, I will take the opportunity to ask it. I will not repeat what my colleagues have said about the difficult role of the European Union in this issue, which is also a danger to our continent. Indeed, this conflict is taking place on the eastern border of the Union. Therefore, it is in our best interest to provide a good framework for our participation in diplomatic de-escalation efforts, but we must also prevent any events. In this regard, Madam Minister, I have noted that the European Commission has announced a supplementary budget of EUR 1.2 billion to help Ukraine. Without going into detail, I would have wanted to know whether Belgium is also considering recalling its collaborators and diplomats from Kiev. This issue has often come back to our discussions. Then, will Belgian soldiers join the 40,000 units sent by NATO? Is it possible to revitalize Normandy's format? Finally, did the United States and NATO respond to Russia in writing?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u22	Madam President, I would like to thank everyone for their questions on the situation in Ukraine, on which, you know, I have been particularly mobilised in recent days and weeks. And I'm not the only one. In the preamble, I would like to make a reflection. I think it is not at all unusual for Parliament, the public and the press to ask questions, question what is happening and try to understand the issues, risks, threats and intentions of each other. At the same time, it is important to understand that it must also be accepted that this dual approach, which has been advocated by Belgium since the beginning, i.e. both dialogue and deterrence with a clear priority to dialogue, does not work if we spread in detail publicly. It is part of the dialogue and deterrence to keep certain things below the line. You have observed it, diplomatic contacts have multiplied all azimuts. They're continuing. As I speak to you, we take the matter very seriously. The risks of an offensive on the part of Russia in Ukraine are very real, we must not be mistaken, even if the threat is not, to date, considered imminent. This offensive could indeed take on various forms: military, hybrid attacks such as migration, cyberattack, disinformation campaign or outright complete or other invasion. President Putin's true intentions are uncertain. We are well aware that Moscow wants Ukraine to be stowed against Russia and sees with a very bad eye any form of rapprochement between Kiev and the Western world. Let me begin by repeating chronologically the main events of the last few weeks. In the face of Western positions towards the deployment of Russian troops on the Ukrainian border, on 17 December Russia presented two treaty proposals (one to NATO, another to the United States) which, according to its analysis, suggest new parameters for improving the security of the European continent. These texts include provisions which are totally unacceptable to Belgium and the allies. They include a ban on NATO enlargement, which calls into question the Alliance's open-door policy. This also calls into question the principle that each State is sovereign in its defence choices and the defence alliances it wishes to join. The Russians also wish to return to a military deployment in Europe similar to the 1997 situation, which would make de facto the principle of collective defence, the very essence of NATO, impossible for the members who joined the Alliance after that date. These members are the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Albania, Croatia, Montenegro, the Republic of Northern Macedonia. Belgium firmly defends the principles of sovereignty, in particular with regard to foreign policy, territorial integrity and the inviolability of borders, which are called into question by the Russian proposals. These principles were set out in the Helsinki document, one of the founding texts of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, of which Russia is also a member. However, the Russian proposals contain ideas that allow dialogue to resume and therefore deserve to be studied, such as the restoration of the means of communication – here we are thinking of a civilian hotline – the resumption of dialogue within the NATO-Russia Council, increased transparency on military exercises, risk reduction and the prevention of incidents. In the face of increasing tensions, Europe and the transatlantic community continue to favour de-escalation, and this obviously requires continuous dialogue. That is why contacts have increased considerably since mid-January. On 10 January the Americans and the Russians had a first discussion in Geneva, which was described as frank and clear. The United States pointed out that several of the Russian proposals were not feasible. The US also expressed its willingness to negotiate reinforced, risk mitigation and transparency measures and new arms management agreements on the basis of mutual commitments. Russia denied that it had plans to invade Ukraine and said that the concentration of troops was a matter of self-defense. It remained with his demands to make progress in the negotiations. At NATO level, the NATO-Russia Council met on 12 January 2022 and this was an opportunity for allies to convey the important messages, including that NATO is a defensive alliance and that the de-escalation is the goal. NATO was united and willing to engage in a more in-depth dialogue on a number of issues, as foreseen at an extraordinary meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council on 7 January. We want to engage in dialogue with Russia in order to restore the channels of communication between allies and Russia, to engage in discussions on arms control, disarmament, non-proliferation and, finally, to increase transparency and to implement concrete risk mitigation measures. For Belgium, this meeting of 12 January was to be the first of a series of meetings to renew the dialogue with Russia, without abandoning or renegotiating our values on essential principles adopted in the basic texts which have also been signed by Russia and which form the basis of security in Europe. The issues that NATO wants to discuss with Russia are: strengthening communication and contacts between Russia and the alliance, measures to reduce risks and increase transparency, new negotiations on arms control instruments, disarmament and non-proliferation. Russia wants to see a proposal from NATO on paper. The alliance is currently completing this work. Belgium is particularly in favour of arms control and disarmament. We are also responding to the reaction of the United States to the draft treaty which concerns them. We hope that discussions with Russia can continue with further meetings. Russia has received an invitation to this effect. At the OSCE Permanent Council meeting on 13 January, held at ambassador level, the respective positions were confirmed. During the meeting, Belgium, together with a group of like-minded countries, set out the same points as it did before in a NATO setting: involving Europe in discussions, national decision-making on what safe alliance one wants to belong to, so no sphere of influence and legal support instruments, such as the Helsinki Final Act and the Paris Charter. The humanitarian aspects were also raised. At present, it is still unclear what the next steps of the OSCE will be. It will also examine whether efforts to implement the Minsk Agreements can be resumed in order to reduce tension. Today, a meeting will take place in Paris between the special envoys of France, Germany, Russia and Ukraine to see to what extent the Normandy Format can meet at the highest level in order to revitalise this platform. Since 2014, the OSCE has deployed an observation mission in the Donbas to monitor compliance with the Minsk Accords, but this mission is disappointed with Russia, which denounces the imbalance in the reports of the mission and in the management of its personnel. Russia considers this mission to be biased and, on the ground, the mission is prevented from exercising its mandate by destruction of equipment and non-respect of freedom of movement. On 21 January, the Foreign Ministers of the United States and Russia met in Geneva, indicating that the dialogue has not been terminated and that a diplomatic solution to the crisis is still possible. At the end of this meeting, Moscow and Washington pointed out that a new meeting could be held, but the Russians would first like to receive a written reply to their proposal. Belgium's position in these fora has always been constant. First of all within NATO, the European Union and the OSCE, Belgium defends Ukraine's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity. As far as Russia is concerned, Belgium's position is dual. Our country is in favour of strong measures and decisions, as well as dialogue to achieve de-escalation. This is therefore a balanced approach. I would also like to stress that the Washington Treaty is very clear. Article 5, mutual defence clause, concerns the Allies and therefore does not apply to Ukraine. This does not prevent Ukraine from being a privileged partner of NATO, with which we cooperate to build its capacity, including through joint exercises or training. At the same time, at the internal level, NATO is preparing for all scenarios, in particular by strengthening its vigilance. Belgium will continue to contribute to this effort, with the current deployment of our F-16s in Estonia and, for the second half of 2022, the deployment of a manoeuvring capability within the framework of the Enhanced Forward Presence Lithuania.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u23	My colleague, the Minister of Defence, was able, I think, to give you more information on the military deployment this morning. We are preparing to meet our commitments when NATO's response plans are activated, whether within the NRF (NATO Response Force), or the VJTF (Very High Readiness Joint Task Force), or a joint task force with a very high level of readiness. These various forces, made up of contributions from all Allies, will be deployed in NATO territory in the event of escalation. The NATO countries are putting forces on standby and deploying additional ships and fighters in Eastern Europe to strengthen NATO's deterrent and defence attitude and to gather more intelligence. In recent days, a number of Allies have made public statements on the ongoing or upcoming military deployment in the framework of NATO. The United States has also announced a higher alert level for soldiers currently stationed in the United States and forming part of the NATO Response Force if this group is activated. Nothing has been decided at this stage. Washington has also declared its readiness to deploy the troops currently stationed in Europe to strengthen the south-eastern flank of the alliance. The development of the situation is the subject of constant attention by Belgium. We maintain very close contacts with NATO. This was still the case yesterday, when the Prime Minister and the Secretary General of NATO appealed. Several Allies also announced that they would send military equipment, essentially defensive, to Ukraine in a bilateral context. These are decisions of a sovereign national choice. At this stage, our country has not received any specific requests. This issue is therefore not on the agenda. At the end of the day, a Kern will be held and we will discuss it on this occasion. Our goal is also to maintain a strong position and strengthen deterrence. The price that Russia will have to pay if Ukraine is attacked will indeed be very high. The EU also plays an important role in the development of strong deterrent measures, particularly in the economic field. This issue was discussed at the European Council on 16 December, at the Gymnich on 13 and 14 January in Brest and at the Foreign Affairs Council on Monday 24 January. On 24 January, together with the European foreign ministers, we delivered a message of unity and determination. Russia's aggressive actions are unacceptable and the EU calls for de-escalation. The values on which European security is based are fundamental. The price Russia will have to pay if Ukraine is attacked will be very high. A very wide set of sanctions is being finalised at EU level, which can be implemented very quickly if necessary. That package of sanctions can be activated in case of aggression by Russia which takes a different form than a military attack. I am thinking of a cyber attack, a hybrid threat or large-scale disinformation and destabilization. Of course, it is not intended to provide public information on the measures being prepared, so I cannot answer the questions in detail. The intention of the announcement of possible sanctions has a deterrent nature. The sanctions imposed after the annexation of Crimea since 2014 have not been sufficiently effective. We can only establish a status quo on Crimea and in the Donbas. For this reason, the current package must be very substantial and therefore have a significant economic impact on Russia. Of course, we must also have credibility if something is to happen. We must also support Ukraine's resilience to cope with this crisis. To this end, the European Commission announced on 24 January that Ukraine would provide macro-financial assistance of EUR 1.2 billion to maintain financial stability and support the Ukrainian economy in the short and medium term. The EU also has a role to play at diplomatic level. The EU is working in very close coordination with NATO, the United States and other allies to defend a united Western position on this crisis. This coordination is going well and is also a sign of a strengthened transatlantic relationship. For example, the US Foreign Minister, Antony Blinken, took part in the EU Foreign Affairs Council on 24 January through a video conference. However, we must note that the Russians prefer contacts with the United States. It is regrettable that there is so far no real discussion format between the EU and Russia. Belgium is in favour of revitalising the EU-Russia communication channels. In order to enter into dialogue, there must be a willingness on both sides to do so, and unfortunately this is not the case at present on the Russian side. EU-Russia contacts are maintained at operational level and we hope that they can soon be converted into political contacts so that we can make Europe's voice heard. Of course, that happens in the OSCE. The evacuation of Belgian diplomatic personnel is not on the agenda. Our country has three expatriate citizens at the Belgian Embassy in Kiev, which is already a small delegation. It is important that we maintain a presence on the ground to keep in touch with the authorities and the Belgians on the ground. The Department of Foreign Affairs Crisis Centre, in collaboration with the Minister of Defence, is, of course, continuously analysing the situation and options in order to anticipate future evacuation needs. We have also adapted the travel notices and are in constant contact with the Belgians on site. With regard to the energy dimension of the crisis we are facing, although Belgium is not one of the countries most dependent on Russian gas imports compared to other European countries, we would obviously be potentially affected by a crisis at this level, in addition to the one we are already experiencing. Belgium is therefore very attentive to this issue and we very much welcome all the mitigation measures undertaken by the European Union to anticipate possible supply cuts. Our country also organised a European meeting on energy geopolitics on 13 December. As diversification is an essential element of energy policy, it needs to be linked more closely between energy ministers and those responsible for foreign affairs. I also stressed this point in the Foreign Affairs Council last Monday, with regard to the geopolitical aspect of energy issues. With regard to cyber threats against Belgium, these are tools belonging to the panoply to carry out destabilization actions in general. Belgium, as a NATO and European Union country, is a potential specific target. At this stage, the investigation is under way to identify the origin of the attack that struck the Defence last December. Our country has so far not attributed this attack. It is difficult to predict the flow of migration, as it depends on geography and a potential offensive and the consequences it may have. Moreover, there is already a large presence of Ukrainian nationals in Europe for economic reasons. This is expected to increase if the security situation deteriorates. Several of you have stressed that the current situation highlights for the European Union the need to develop its security dimension across Defence Europe, in line with NATO, which remains the cornerstone of our security. This is the whole issue of thinking about the strategic compass that is to be adopted in March. It must be understood that NATO is working on its strategic concept. It's more an opportunity than anything else. In this way, the European Union will set specific objectives to increase its military capabilities and thus also its diplomatic weight. The development of a European rapid response force is one of the objectives of the strategic compass. The compass should also allow for a strengthening of the European Union's strategic autonomy on the international stage. As you have seen, the situation is changing from day to day in this case. Belgium remains mobilized in all its diplomatic formats to support a balanced approach, which advocates de-escalation through dialogue while maintaining a position of firmness and deterrence vis-à-vis Russia. I repeat that dialogue is not about ill-placed benevolence or naivety, it is the privileged way out of the situation in which we find ourselves. But it is true that the dialogue must be accompanied by measures of deterrence that must be sufficiently important and credible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u24	Madam Minister, I fully understand the diplomacy you have shown, which means that we cannot answer all the questions in detail. A number of things have come up painfully for the Flemish interest. The European common foreign and security policy appears to be as good as an empty box in this story. You emphasise the role of the EU, but the EU is not even present at crucial moments of consultation when it comes to our own security interests, even if the EU gets 36% of its gas from Russia. Besides, we're so easy to break up. Of course, Russia feels that in its fingertips. For example, the EU once again shows that it cannot act together and convincingly as a foreign actor, in spite of all the magnificence towards Russia. Next, the EU's military and cyber capabilities stand out vis-à-vis Russia which has invested heavily in its own defence. We do not have enough strategic reserves right now to expand our military capabilities sufficiently over a longer period of time. As regards cyber security, we are very vulnerable, and we have seen this recently. It is right that we are clearly concerned about this. The almost complete dependence of Belgium and Europe on NATO, and certainly of the United States on military security, is a focus of attention in this story. The increased dependence on gas prices should also be considered. A military conflict, as in Ukraine, would ensure that the gas price will rise even further. That would be good for the United States. That might explain the high-level game being played right now. Europe would then depend on American gas and US energy. That will be at least 40% more expensive. The citizens of this country would be very grateful to us in this regard. A high state of preparedness by NATO is necessary, but setting up additional troops simply to reassure other Member States brings little progress. The years of underinvestment in our security apparatus mean that we are not ready for a military conflict at the moment. I have already reported it this morning and I will repeat it here this afternoon. Professor Luc De Vos, not the first on that domain, even says the word'suicide mission'. For our group, we only have an interest in de-escalation of the conflict. I am glad that every party in the whole debate calls for this. Caution throughout the file is the message as well as calmness and dialogue. Calling for the Minsk agreements to be implemented under UN control would also make sense. Madam Minister, I am glad that you mentioned this in your reply. The question is whether the Sabre swinging with a new conflict at our borders, where it will undoubtedly be Europe that lags behind with the backlash of the inevitable flow of migration, serves our own interests. My group is not convinced of that at all. In addition, Ukraine is not currently a NATO Member State, a number of parties here seem to forget, but a free nation that can and must decide for itself where its future lies. We must respect that. We are defending national interests and not the interests of another state, with which we do not have direct interests through NATO at the moment. Madam President, I therefore propose a motion of recommendation in which we clearly call for maximum diplomatic means to be used, firstly, to remove the current tensions between Russia and Ukraine and to prevent further military escalation and, secondly, to fully respect Ukraine's free choice of whether or not to join NATO, in particular its sovereignty in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u25	Mr De Vriendt, you wanted to replicate instead of Mr Cogolati.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u26	Madam Minister, we have had a good parliamentary debate and that should help to make the right decision at the heart of the matter tonight. I wish to raise three points. Firstly, our group believes that Belgium should try to take the lead in this discussion. We have a balanced approach. I think it is high time we tried to convince other countries in the various fora of the importance of this balanced approach, in particular a number of more hawk countries. In the long term too, we as a country have a role to play in thinking exercises around the security structure in Europe, or the importance of energy independence to be stronger than a country like Russia. We have a responsibility in this as a country. Secondly, as far as dialogue is concerned, yes, absolutely. You rightly pointed out that the two treaties proposed by Russia to the United States and NATO contain a number of points of agreement, such as arms control, confidence-building measures, more transparency about military exercises. It's something to build on, and I think it's important. You mention dialogue between Russia and the West, but who is the West? NATO? The European Union? The United States? In these times of crisis, a more integrated forum would also be useful so that we can reduce the risk of division towards Russia. Thirdly, our group is also absolutely in favour of deterrents, including military ones, and we must not be naive in this. But sanctions must also be imposed. I can understand why you would prefer not to disclose details of this, but I would like to say that tonight, in essence, the position can be defended in order to come forward with a very substantial sanction package. The sanctions imposed after the annexation of Crimea in 2014 clearly did not have the desired effect, namely that Russia would withdraw. We all have to make that determination. Let us draw the right conclusion to that. It is said that it is absolutely necessary to take sanctions against Putin himself and his direct entourage. That was not possible, but the European sanction list does not include this entourage. Perhaps the time has come to take a step forward here. We are asking for a very strong and clear Belgian position on sanctions and deterrents.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u27	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I would have liked to ask you first of all whether the nuclear cabinet is meeting this evening on this subject, but Mr De Vriendt, who is probably much better informed than I have, has already confirmed this. I think we all agree that de-escalation should be the goal. I was also pleased to hear you refer to the importance of implementing the Minsk Accords, although I fear that it will be a difficult balancing exercise with President Putin's attitude and are constantly challenging the others to go a step further. You referred to the decision taken by the European Foreign Ministers on Monday and how this resulted in unanimity and determination. I hope that we will see that in the facts too. That does not mean, therefore, that we must act with great military weight, and that can also be done in all kinds of other ways. That brings me to the sanctions that you say should be a solid package. You cannot go into the details of these sanctions. I can understand that from a diplomatic point of view, but at the same time we have to make it clear that we are serious this time, otherwise it is only the question of how far that will seem to Russia. All right, that's where a choice is made, and that's an understandable choice. There are a number of questions to which I have not received an answer, unless I am mistaken, for example whether our country has already received concrete questions for support from the Baltic States, Ukraine or NATO and in what way? I did not get any answers to that, but I see Mr Reynaers nodding confirmed, so I am, of course, wrong about that. On migration, you say it's hard to predict. However, it is remarkable that many other countries are preparing to do so. I therefore hope that our country will not go after the facts again. It is not unthinkable that migratory flows should begin. So I think it is important that we prepare for that in one way or another. We are also, of course, looking forward to what will be decided at the nuclear cabinet tonight.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u28	Madam Secretary, thank you for your long and detailed answer. It reassures my group and I that you are continuing to follow the path of dialogue, and that we are trying to pursue the policy of relaxation by using the OSCE forum, which may not yet be as united as we would like, but where Europe is in some sense present. I have also heard you talk about disarmament, demilitarisation, arms control and non-proliferation. That is indeed the path we must continue to follow. It is in the spirit of the Helsinki Final Act in full Cold War that the OSCE should be located. The second part of your explanatory statement was about disarray. Of course, my concern has not been fully resolved, because Europe cannot react in harmony and there is division. As a result, we are quickly being pushed into the corner or quickly aligning ourselves with the position of the United States, which has an important geopolitical agenda with regard to Russia which is not necessarily ours. I would like to continue to warn against this, because if we continue to play in this game, in which NATO also has a certain responsibility towards Russia, then we know what we are getting into, but not where we come from. As you said, NATO is indeed a defensive organisation and Ukraine is not a member of NATO. For the time being, no NATO country has occupied Russia, nor will it, in our humble opinion, dare or dare to do so, let alone take the risk of occupying Ukraine now. It bothers me that Russia is often portrayed as an incredibly large military moloch that threatens us and, so to speak, could stand in Brussels overnight. Russia has a defence budget that is not much larger than that of Germany or France. From an economic point of view, Russia has about the specific weight of a country like Spain. NATO, on the other hand, has a joint defence capacity 17 times greater than Russia's. The core of the conflict is indeed that Russia feels threatened by the shift from NATO to the east, which, in Russia's view, is a legitimate security issue that is being compromised. The promises made after the fall of the Wall and the NATO summit in Bucharest were not respected by NATO and, above all, by the US, because they have continued to move east. That, of course, provokes a reaction from Russia. The military maneuvers carried out in the Baltic states, on the border with Russia, are also considered a threat. So there's an action reaction spiral in motion. Let's take perspective by continuing to move into one's security perceptions, to evolve into a shared security interest, especially the very important cooperative security that means that I feel safe when you feel safe. I think we should continue along that road. I would like to be brief, but allow me to address the question of Ukraine's much-discussed sovereignty, which is indeed very important. I also call for perspective and relocation on this issue. I want to illustrate that with an imaginary exercise. Suppose Russia and Mexico conclude a military alliance, in which Russia and Mexico perform military exercises against the border of the United States. We can argue that Russia and Mexico are sovereign countries that can and can carry out such exercises, but that raises the question whether the US will accept that. If the US opposes these exercises because it considers them to be a security threat, will we in that case also defend the sovereignty of Mexico and Russia towards the United States? I also mention the sovereign decision of a country such as Cuba at the time, which decided in full Cold War to place Russian missiles. How did the United States react to this? The US felt threatened and the Cold War suddenly became very hot.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u29	Mr De Vuyst, I would ask you to conclude, because you have already exceeded your speaking time by two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u30	Madam Secretary, the people of Ukraine do not want war, the people of Russia even less. Let us take a deep breath, continue to de-escalation and strive for a situation in which Ukraine can restore its sovereignty. If further demilitarisation is also carried out at the eastern border of NATO (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u31	Madam President, I should like to comment on the previous speaker's reasoning, since there is no time to go into it in more detail. Madam Secretary, thank you for your very detailed answer. You are today the second Minister who answers our questions very comprehensively and in detail, for which I am grateful. This also shows confidence in Parliament and in the cooperation between this House and the government. In your long speech, the commitment to diplomacy and de-escalation was a very important element. Those are absolutely the two key words. Whether we like it or not, we need to engage in dialogue with Russia, for example on arms control. Communication with Russia has been less addressed in the replies, but we must keep them open. In doing so, the cases must also be appointed. Mr De Vuyst talks about moving east. In the east, however, there is only one country that illegally occupies parts of a European country, particularly Russia. So I understand why NATO is moving east and why the Eastern European countries are very interested in NATO, especially because of their neighbouring countries which are illegally occupying territories. Quite simply, quite clearly: sovereignty for Ukraine is an essential principle in international law. We must keep repeating that. That would also be the case for Mexico, Mr De Vuyst, should your fictional example become reality. NATO is working well. I believe that we can remember this from this crisis. NATO is united, on the same line. It is important that Belgium continues to do its best to make sufficient military expenditure to reach the NATO average. This Vivaldi government is on the right track for that, but we will have to do more in the future. Finally, for the European Union, hopefully this will be the last wake-up call to really move on to mechanisms to control these kinds of crises. I would like to refer to the words of Theodore Roosevelt: "Speak softly, but carry a big stick." I believe that it is time for the European Union not only to speak softly but also to hold that big stick.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u32	Madam Minister, thank you very much for your comprehensive and detailed reply. It was very clear what Belgium's position is in this conflict. Our group also believes that Belgium should continue to advocate a de-escalation of the conflict through dialogue, combined with sanctions, as you mentioned. It is also a good thing that we are focusing on arms control and disarmament. I believe that we are playing our traditional role in foreign policy. As I said in my question, looking at all the elements, our country has nothing to gain in a military conflict. We would bear the socio-economic consequences, migration and so on. Maybe I should also point out that our interests are indeed the same as those of the United States, but if we place this in a broader perspective, we can see that NATO decision-making is controlled by the US, as was the case in Afghanistan. The fact that the EU does not speak with one voice in the field of security and defence is a problem. I have listened to the debate here in committee and I have found that all the Members who have spoken agree with that. Even the Flemish Interest and also the N-VA Group. Mrs Van Bossuyt, I was surprised at the latter. After all, I had a debate with Mr Francken this morning. He really only looked at this debate through NATO glasses, as a conflict between the US and Russia in which the EU has nothing to say or even has no role to play. We have, of course, rejected that in that debate and said that we have other interests. I note that everyone in this committee has the same position in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u33	Madam Minister, thank you for your particularly well-documented answer. Ladies and gentlemen, armed conflict and war are, of course, always the worst solution for all the belligerents, on the one hand, and for the inhabitants of the regions concerned, on the other. The tensions between Ukraine and Russia certainly do not escape this reality. Our twofold approach is, on the one hand, the strongest deterrent possible by considering the strongest possible sanctions package at international, European, but also transatlantic level and, on the other hand, maintaining dialogue. At this stage, this dual approach must be favoured and supported without angelism. Indeed, all scenarios must be considered and I believe that the deployment of our F-16s in the Baltic States and one of our ships is proof that Belgium takes this situation very seriously. But to be proud when the risks of escalation, as you told us the minister, are real would be at this point counterproductive. This will not help a peaceful resolution of tensions. Talking rather than making weapons speak is in the interests of everyone, including the Belgians. Some have mentioned the energy crisis and our international dependence on a market we can no longer connect. This is also one of the very worrying aspects of the situation. We will have nothing to gain from a conflict if, moreover, we can avoid it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u34	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You have clearly emphasised Ukraine's sovereignty and independence. I believe that Belgium and the European Union should continue to strongly defend those values which are not defended by Russia. We cannot kill the Ukrainians with weapons, we must respect them. And, as you clearly say, we need to work on de-escalation, in dialogue with those involved, including Ukraine and, of course, Russia. Another important aspect is the need to work at the European level on detachment. Of course also at NATO level, but I believe that today is the opportunity to develop a strategy at European level that is strong in terms of sanctions, response to cyber attacks and military action. In that sense, I do support what President Macron is doing today. It is the only way to make it clear that there is also a European security order. We must, of course, seek consensus within NATO, which is beyond doubt. But it is about our European security, about our gas prices and about the impact of the conflict on migration. I believe that it is indeed time, as my fellow Members have said, to develop a clear European strategy, and that we should use the French Presidency to work on it further in the context of this conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u35	Madam Minister, thank you for your very detailed answer. It is indeed understandable that Russia is now seeking, through the treaties it has submitted, to reconstitute by force the Warsaw Pact. This is a serious violation of the Charter of the United Nations that it would be prepared to do in the event of an invasion of Ukraine. Unfortunately, today we are paying for a tragic weakness of Europe. It is indeed time to speed up European Defence, our real ability to affect the security of the world. These operations that Russia is conducting – as I said, this is not the first one because it has literally invaded Georgia, Moldova, Crimea – it is in a way a violation of the achievements of the Second World War and the Charter of the United Nations. That is what is at stake in this conflict. Let us not misunderstand that other powers in the world today no longer wish to respect these achievements of the Charter of the United Nations. We are obviously thinking of China, Turkey. It is about the stability of the world. I hear some colleagues, including Vlaams Belang and PTB, pretending that we will have peace without deterrence. They are obviously very wrong. If we want peace and if we want Russia to come back to the dialogue table, we will have to be able to balance dissuasive measures that are heavy enough and serious to make Russia realize that this conflict is unpayable for itself. That is what is at stake today. Madam Minister, you have not told us what measures are being developed today. In any case, I hope that the Russians know them because measures they do not know about deterrence would not have much impact. When one does not know the risk, one is actually tempted by the policy of the worst. I hope that we can once again ensure that there is no war. If we do not want this war, we must have very heavy and serious measures on the table that would ensure that Russia renounces its belligerent plans. I also hope that this evening's Kern, of which you have not told us much, will help to ensure that Belgium takes its share of the risk, of the burden, of deterrence, in such a way that we are a responsible ally in this very heavy tension.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u36	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. As Borrell says, you have to keep calm. This is the third meeting, before the Kern tonight. Maybe new information will come to us tomorrow. The consistency of the responses of the members of the government is already very reassuring. In addition, we have a history with Ukraine. When we were in Kosovo, we trained Ukrainian soldiers These were the BELUKOS units (Belgians, Luxembourgers and Ukrainians in Kosovo). I watched live the successive enlargements. Sometimes it was a provocation, as were the heights of Riga and Bucharest, at the instigation of the Bush administration at the time. It is curious to hear today that Russia is at the door of NATO, because the real movement is rather that it is the one that has approached the doors of NATO. We must not rewrite history. That said, everyone wants dialogue. Today we are witnessing a great chess game. This is part of our reflections on the European Strategic Compass. We are nowhere on the European Defence side, and that is dramatic. We are trying to define this Compass between us, but it is very difficult, because the successive enlargements of the European Union and NATO are such that there is no longer necessarily great cohesion or coherence. We are no longer able, at European level, to take concerted and unanimous decisions, even in the field of defence. There is a good chance that the Compass will be a piece of the puzzle of NATO's new strategy. Within it, we are small, but it is an Alliance. Whatever the size or size of a country, we must listen to all the Allies. We do not have the same weight, but politically we are at the same level as the others. It's not because we're small that we don't have to say anything. With what you have described to us, you are in a position to have the right direction and strategy to make us hear and respect by NATO, instead of listening to demands expressed by going-to-war - and there are things everywhere. A new war would bring nothing. It would be the people in Ukraine, Europe and even Russia who would suffer the consequences. We will still have interesting political debates and positions on this forthcoming situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answers. I fully understand that some things must remain below the line in order to make this strategy succeed, which must lead us, through dissuasive measures and diplomacy, to de-escalation. I also believe that the European Union has too little significance in this conflict, which has direct consequences for all of us in terms of energy, migration, human rights and the security of our continent. I wish you a great deal of courage for the coming hours, and we look forward to seeing what the strategy will be to achieve peace.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u38	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Annick Ponthier and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Annick Ponthier and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Affairs and Foreign Trade, and the Federal Cultural Institutions, - considering the need for de-escalation of tensions in the region; - whereas Ukraine is currently not a NATO Member State, a free nation that can and must decide for itself where its future lies; asks the government - the maximum use of diplomatic means to alleviate the current tensions between Russia and Ukraine and to prevent further military escalation; - fully respect the free choice of Ukraine as to whether or not it wishes to join NATO.' A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Annick Ponthier and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Annick Ponthier and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Affairs and Foreign Trade, and of the Federal Cultural Institutions, - considering the need for a de-escalation of tensions in the region; - Whereas Ukraine – which is not currently a member of NATO – is a free nation that can and must decide its own future; asks the government - to deploy as far as possible diplomatic means in order to defuse the current tensions between Russia and Ukraine and to avoid further military escalation; - fully respect Ukraine's free choice as to whether or not to join NATO." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Michel De Maegd. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Michel De Maegd. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u39	Minister, I'm sorry in advance because I'm going to have to join another committee. I will allow myself to formulate the questions and then come back to the answers via the minutes. It is true that I have tabled several questions on the subject and will not go back in detail on the issues as tabled in writing. But I believe that the "Congo Hold-up" investigation is of an unprecedented scale, even internationally. It really revealed the existence of a very complex and extensive system of corruption in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, during the mandates of former President Joseph Kabila. I was in Congo a few months ago in a mission led by colleague André Flahaut. And what really struck me was how much a tiny minority of people were allowing themselves to use the Congo as a packet of chips, depending on the pace of transition to power. Natural and public resources are used as much as possible, to the detriment of 99 per cent of the local population. Why am I asking the question here? Because clearly, we see links with Belgium. I think it is important to deepen these links, hence the questions that I ask you about the Belgian public funds that may have been diverted, about your government's position on these misappropriations and about the corruption of the Congolese authorities, including through Belgian businessmen and companies. This is what is significant in the revelations of the Evening and the Standaard. Has the DRC ever asked us for accounts in the course of the investigation whether it is a tax or a judicial one? Will Belgium actively help the DRC to shed light on this system of corruption, on abuses of social property and malfeasance? I am thinking in particular of the South Oil TV company, which allegedly received up to $7.3 million to pay for Congolese peacekeepers in the framework of the mission to the Central African Republic. I am thinking of Belgo-Congolais Alain Wan and Belgian Marc Piedboeuf who were also implicated in the "Congo Hold-up" investigation. That's why I'm really looking forward to hearing or - in my case - reading your answers in the transcript. Thank you in advance for the position, which I hope to be pro-active, of Belgium, in the search for the truth and in the fight against corruption in the DRC.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u40	Madam President, Minister, some time ago the media reported on the so-called deal of the century between Congo and China, the 2007 Sicomines Deal worth EUR 5.48 billion. Beijing would finance the largest investment ever made in Congo, consisting of infrastructure, such as roads, railways and the construction of hospitals and universities. In return, it should be allowed to eliminate the valuable raw materials that Congo is rich, in particular cobalt and copper reserves. In this way, China is rapidly working on a new form of colonisation of the African continent. The most striking thing about this is that China's implementation of the promised buildings often remains out. In this case, the Chinese construction giants China Railway Group and Sinohydro, both owned by the Chinese State, would not have built any of the 31 promised hospitals and neither would have built any of the universities. So for the Congolese people, there was nothing interesting in the deal. On the contrary, the raw materials used by the Congo were extracted by China. The only thing that was financed turned out to be the accounts of the Clan-Kabila for at least EUR 27 million. Millions of leaked documents and money transactions from the African BGFI bank show this. As you know, they came into the hands of the press. I am happy to ask you the following questions. Firstly, have you already had contact with the Congolese and/or Chinese ambassadors or with the respective foreign ministers on the matter? I suppose so. If so, what was the outcome of the talks? Secondly, will you raise the scandal in all relevant bilateral but also international and European fora? Thirdly, is there any more information about the two Belgian Congolese who were involved in the deal? Can you explain that? Can they be prosecuted for that? Finally, are additional investigations now being carried out into all ongoing Belgian investments in Congo and mainly into the actual use of our money which, as you know, partly flows to Congo?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u41	Madam Minister, it is a colossal work that has been done: 3.5 million documents have been collected by about 100 journalists and experts from 19 media and 5 NGOs, including Le Soir and De Standaard for Belgium. We salute them. This work leads to the light of a kleptocratic system established by Kabila and his clan when they were in power. No less than $138 million was said to have been removed from the State funds between 2013 and 2018. Judicial information was opened in the Democratic Republic of the Congo on the basis of the data disclosed. The scheme used was based on the Congolese subsidiary of the banking giant BGFI, on a screen company called Sud Oil. He seems to have benefited from the blessing of the Central Bank of the Congo. At the head of all these entities are relatives of Kabila. The amounts diverted came in particular from a series of public institutions – the National Routier Maintenance Fund, the Société commerciale des transports et des ports, the National and Independent Electoral Commission – of which we have been talking a lot lately, the National Assembly and above all, the BCC itself. Of course, as Belgians, we are also struck by the fact that the consortium's revelations concern a substantial number of Belgian economic and/or financial actors active in the DRC. Here, too, I would not be exhaustive, but the suspicions of the investigation concern, for example, Georges Forrest, the Wan-Piedboeuf duo or Philippe de Moerloose. Minister, do you condemn these actions of the Congolese leaders of the time? I have no doubt about that. Is the issue being addressed at European level? Is the adoption of a sanctions regime for the Congolese officials mentioned possible? Have you addressed this issue in your recent bilateral relations with the DRC? What appreciation do you have for the Belgian citizens who would have been complicit in these terrible abuses?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u42	I agree with the analysis and questions put by my fellow Members. In Congo there is talk of Ali Baba and the forty robbers, when it comes to the clan-Kabila. It is also against the chest that the government funds of the central bank, of Gécamines, of the Foner road fund and of the independent committee CENI have been stolen to pass on to the private accounts of the Clan-Kabila. These institutions had to ensure democracy, infrastructure and general well-being for the people. That's hallucinating. This looting was facilitated by the participation of financial institutions worldwide, the involvement of Chinese companies and also Belgian businessmen. Among others, Georges Forrest and Philippe de Moerloose are the subject of suspicions. It is suspected that weird profits were made on the sale of heavy equipment, such as trucks and tractors, without a public tender, without a proper pricing and without a price guarantee. 11.11.11. has already asked the Congolese Government to raise this issue, to ask for reforms and a detailed investigation, but Belgian officials and intermediaries should also be examined. Madam Secretary, how do you address this in international fora? Is there any talk of sanctions against Congolese leaders? Has this been mentioned in a dialogue with the Congolese authorities? What is being done in the fight against corruption there, but also in Belgium? Will action also be taken in Belgium as the survey also includes relevant compatriots?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u43	These revelations have indeed brought to light massive misappropriation of Congolese public funds by figures linked to the former regime in the DRC. The publication of this document has provoked numerous responses, both in the DRC and internationally. The Congolese authorities have already announced that there will be an investigation and prosecution against those responsible. As regards the possible involvement of compatriots in this case of embezzlement, it will be up to the Congolese and, possibly, Belgian courts to take a decision on this, such as proceeding to prosecution. In line with the recommendations made to Belgium under the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Relations, the FPS Foreign Affairs has established a channel for reporting suspected cases of corruption abroad by Belgian companies or natural persons since 2015. In concrete terms, this means that under Article 29 of the Code of Criminal Investigation, which establishes the obligation of legal denunciation for any Belgian official, whether in Belgium or abroad, our diplomatic posts are made aware of the importance of preventing and combating corruption in their jurisdiction. On the occasion of the International Anti-Corruption Day of 9 December, he would have recalled by instruction their duty of increased vigilance, including the obligation to report to the SPF Foreign Affairs any serious and credible evidence of alleged acts of corruption which diplomatic posts might have acquired knowledge of. Moreover, according to a Memorandum of Understanding agreed in 2015 between the Chairmen of the Executive Committee of the FPS Foreign Affairs and the FPS Justice, these suspected indications of corruption will be transferred to the FPS Justice, which will pass them on to the federal prosecutor. It is then up to the federal court to decide, on the basis of the principle of the opportunity of prosecution, whether an investigation or a judicial inquiry is being conducted or whether the case is being dismissed. In December 2018, Foreign Affairs reported suspicions of corruption and money laundering in the DRC to both the Financial Information Processing Cell and the FPS Justice Department. European sanctions or restrictive measures are not punitive measures, but are normally intended to influence the behaviour of the marked persons. They are separate from any legal proceedings. In this case, it seems that these practices have now been stopped and that legal action is being taken with possible punishment. The United Nations shall reimburse on a flat-rate basis the costs of personnel and equipment to troop- and police-contributing States deployed in United Nations peacekeeping operations. Payment shall be made by the United Nations directly to States on the basis of procedures decided by the General Assembly of the United Nations. The remuneration of Congolese military personnel deployed by the Democratic Republic of the Congo in United Nations peacekeeping operations remains a national responsibility. We remain attentive to the follow-up to the publication of this article in the United Nations fora and, in general, to the possible domestic embezzlement of funds from the United States. As the Prime Minister has pointed out, it is in the interest of the DRC that this case has been revealed to the public, since this should help the current President and his government to make progress in the fight against corruption, one of the current political priorities of the Congolese government programme. The fight against corruption is also an essential element of our development cooperation with the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I also invite you to ask my colleague, Mrs Kitir, who is responsible for replying to you on development cooperation. During my contacts with the Congolese authorities, such as my homologist Christophe Lutundula during his visit to Belgium in October 2021, I systematically remind them of the importance that Belgium attaches to the fight against corruption. Belgium supports the efforts of the Congolese authorities in this area. The revelations of Congo Hold-up show how important it is that the fight against corruption is treated as a priority. For several months, Belgium has been providing financial support to their programme to strengthen the anti-corruption structure in the DRC implemented by the UN Office on Drugs and Crime. Belgium also supports efforts for transparency and good governance in the extractive industry in the DRC, in particular through the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative initiative and the Extractives Global Programmatic Support, a trust fund of the World Bank with multiple donors. The fight against corruption is also regularly addressed in discussions with international partners, both within the European Union and in other fora, in particular in the context of the transparency obligations arising from the new three-year programme concluded between the DRC and the International Monetary Fund in June 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u44	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You must agree with me that this dossier once again proves the corruption of those in power in a number of African countries and China's unsatisfying hunger for power. It is good that you mention this in as many international fora as possible and that cooperation is being established with the Congolese government. However, I would like to reiterate that we are in favour of a comprehensive investigation so that all parties concerned can be held responsible. You say that this is happening in Congo, but as far as Belgian responsibility is concerned, you remain somewhat flat. I regret that and hope that this will be corrected. Belgian funds flow to Congo and other African countries via all kinds of channels. Often this money disappears in corrupt regimes or to corrupt power holders. The Flemish Interest Group has repeatedly raised this issue, without the necessary policy implications for the time being. It can't be. In this House we are working on a special Congo committee dealing with the colonisation period of that country, but if we do not react decisively in this dossier, we are actually indirectly complicit in the new colonisation of Congo and the African continent and in the misuse of resources and the lack of transparency about their use. We must at least call for transparency. The citizen in this country is entitled to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answers. Corruption and good governance are often referred to in the Congo. These revelations also confirm that we must end with a cliché that could almost be described as colonial. Of course, corruption destroys the Congo and deprives it of development prospects in a quasi-structural manner. But we have evidence today that corruption is not just a Congolese case. It is certainly not a question of relativising the responsibility of the Kabila clan or of minimizing the corruption dynamics that may still persist. It is simply a matter of finding that these acts of corruption still benefit from the involvement of certain major figures in the Belgian financial and economic world. In this regard, Belgium must be able to make its own self-criticism in a sincere and profound manner. And beyond this exercise, we must put in place the means and actions to stop Belgium's complicity with corruption practices, but also to punish and punish them. This is a sine qua non if we want to prevent our relations with the Democratic Republic of the Congo from suffering in the long term from blindness on our part or from the perpetuation of this blind spot.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u46	Madam Secretary, you said in your reply that elements were transferred to the FPS Justice and Financial Information Processing Cell on 18 December. I hope, therefore, that further consideration will be given to a judicial investigation, because these matters will not be acceptable if it is all true what we read in the media. Everyone, of course, has the right to defend themselves, including the businessmen involved in this dossier. I have, of course, also asked Minister Kitir a question about this Congo Hold-up. There are no Belgian funds from Development Cooperation involved. However, it is the responsibility of both Foreign Affairs and Development Cooperation to work on the fight against corruption. I do not think that is a colonialist or paternalist approach. When I met President Tshisekedi as a candidate, his priorities were corruption and education. We can point out in partenariat that they themselves did so at the time, that it is important in a whole-of-government approach. Both Foreign Affairs and Development Cooperation must indicate that the funds must be well spent, for the Congolese people. It is not the case that we offer development cooperation and that funds from our own funds are used for private matters. Such processes must stop and we must be aware that we may also have a responsibility in them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u47	Madam President, I was wrong just now. I seem to have talked about 'les États-Unis' instead of 'les Nations Unions'. For the correction of the record, I was not talking about the United States but about the United Nations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u48	Madam Minister, this question can also be linked to the debate we have just had on Ukraine, which was about sovereignty and the fact that the United States is celebrating it. However, when it comes to countries that do not want to join the United States, that sovereignty is buried by all means, as is the case with Cuba, where there is still a blockade due to the extraterritorial application of sanctions. In July 2021, I asked you a written question about the blocking status, to which you replied that companies within the European Union should indeed not comply with US sanctions laws against Cuba, among others. You also said that this binding European regulation was transposed into Belgian law by the law of 2 May 2019, which provides for fines for offenders. For legal persons, the minimum amount shall be EUR 10,000 and a maximum of 10% of the annual net turnover for the preceding financial year. You also referred to an ongoing trial concerning violations of Bank Melli Iran's regulation against Deutsche Telekom. Recently, however, it appeared that the Belgian branches of the banks BNP Paribas Fortis and ING not only systematically refuse all transfers to Cuba, but also all transactions with a reference to Cuba in the name of the client or beneficiary or in the communication. That is a clear violation of European and Belgian legislation. Has the government pointed out to the banks in question the illegality of their actions? Has the government made it clear to them that these illegal acts will have consequences? If not, is the government still planning to do so and to ask them to do so as a rule? Will you take further steps, if necessary, to ensure that they do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u49	Mrs. Depoorter is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u50	First of all, I can confirm that Belgian banks are also subject to the provisions of the blocking statute and its implementation in Belgium. The supervision of compliance with this obligation lies in principle with the Treasury, i.e. the FPS Finance and the FPS Economy, SMEs, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Energy. My services are also in regular contact with the Belgian banking sector, in order to address problems of overcompliance with US sanctions and possible violations of the blocking status. I can also tell you that the European Commission is currently working on the reform of the blocking status. Belgium is actively participating in these discussions with a view to a strong, targeted and efficient protection of the autonomy of the EU and its citizens and businesses against extraterritorial sanctions from third countries. With regard to human rights in Cuba, the defence of these human rights remains a priority and a common thread in our foreign policy. In our bilateral talks with Cuba, particular attention is paid to respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. I would like to remind you that, on the occasion of the last Universal Periodic Review of Cuba in Geneva, our country made three recommendations on death penalty, freedom of expression and human rights defenders. The Cuban authorities have accepted the third recommendation. Belgium also participates actively at European level. Belgium subscribes to the EU's action, in particular in the context of the agreements for political dialogue and cooperation between the EU and Havana. It is in this context and in the light of the evolution of the situation that we will decide on an appropriate response to human rights violations, together with our EU partners. In the framework of that agreement, the EU and Cuba also hold regular dialogues on human rights. The most recent one took place on 26 February. A next edition will take place this year. Our bilateral cooperation with Cuba is mainly concerned with indirect cooperation with Belgian actors, who mainly work on academic and medical issues. However, during bilateral contacts with representatives of the Cuban Government, we raise the issue of respect for human rights. As far as the discussions in the European Parliament are concerned, this is an autonomous institution. In this sense, I am pleased that there is a lively debate on this important issue. The issue of the American sanction against Cuba and its effects on the population and on European citizens and businesses is a separate issue which, in the Belgian and European approach, is separate from the human rights situation in Cuba, although it can also be said that the American sanction would have a negative impact on socio-economic rights, including the right to health.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u51	I had asked clear questions about the blocking statue. I am pleased that the blocking statute will be reformed and strengthened and that Belgium will also participate in it. However, this does not alter the fact that Belgian institutions, for example banks active in our territory, are currently not implementing it. Some banks don't care much about that. The banks in question are therefore subject to charges and court proceedings. I expect more decisive action from the government and the minister. What is the point of Parliament and the government doing legislative work if the government does not enforce these laws sufficiently? You are a liberal minister, you are in favour of free trade and a strong defender of the free market. You also know that unilateral economic sanctions are illegal under international law. It still prevents Cuba from exercising its sovereign right to establish normal trade relations with other countries. Hopefully, decisive action will be taken quickly to ensure that the blocking position is monitored very closely and closely at least in Belgium. We'll keep following up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u52	Madam President, Minister, I believe that we have the same position on many issues relating to foreign affairs. However, we have very different views on cooperation federalism and respect for the division of powers in our country. The coalition agreement clearly states that the government attaches great importance to federalism. For me, this means that the Länder are closely and directly involved in policy areas and dossiers for which they are competent. That seems to me to be the logic itself. This also presupposes good cooperation and information flow between the different policy administrations at the different levels of policy. This is also explicitly mentioned in the famous 1994 cooperation agreement, which is now hopelessly out of date. Trade is an exclusive area of competence of the Länder. I understand that in practice the flow of information often goes wrong. For example, there would be no flow of information from the federal administration to the competent Land Administrations with regard to Coreper II information and the documents falling within the competence of the Länder. You say that cooperation federalism will be handled pragmatically. I don't know how you fill that out. I have a few questions about that. Madam Minister, how does the flow of information on the powers of the state take place in practice? Is there a playbook for that? Or is that dependent on the goodwill of the file managers? Are you aware of the inadequate flow of information from the federal level to the Länder? How do you explain this lack of cooperation federalism? How will you solve this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u53	Madam President, the previous speaker has already outlined the issue. As there is enough repetition in this House, I refer to the text as I have tabled in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u54	Mrs Pas and Mrs Van Bossuyt, I was honestly surprised to read your question. European affairs and European trade in particular are areas in which there is a very good flow of information. Before addressing the substantive aspects of your question, I would also like to clarify that the Belgian follow-up and coordination of European and multilateral trade policy is carried out by my department and is not part of the exclusive powers of the Länder. You refer in your question to the cooperation agreement of 18 May 1995. Indeed, this cooperation agreement and the other 1994 cooperation agreement contain the necessary provisions for effective cooperation between the Federal State and the Communities and the Regions in order to protect Belgian interests. An important part of this cooperation is, of course, the flow of information. This is done in accordance with this cooperation agreement and is going well. At the level of the central administration of the FPS Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation there are constant exchanges and the Regions and Communities are closely involved in all decisions. Reports and relevant information from the Trade Working Group... are continuously shared with the competent authorities. My services of the Directorate-General for European Affairs and Coordination also organise consultations and coordination meetings on a systematic basis, for which the Regions and the Communities are naturally always invited. Cooperation with the entities concerned is therefore proceeding very smoothly. Also in the Permanent Representation of Belgium to the European Union, the flow of information relating to Community or regional matter, or considered useful for the performance of the functions of the representatives of the Communities and the Regions, is continuous. As regards Coreper II in general, I can confirm that the Heads of Delegation of Flanders, Wallonia, Brussels and the German-speaking Community have access to Coreper II documents and reports on the internal digital information distribution platform of the Permanent Representation. This means that they have access to all documents in preparation for the weekly Coreper II meeting, as well as access to the dossiers in preparation for specific councils. In addition, consultations are also held on a weekly basis between the ambassador of Coreper I and II and the representatives of the Communities and Regions, where the flow of information and general cooperation can always be discussed. As you can see, the flow of information is smooth and transparent, both at the head office of the FPS Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and at our permanent representative. I therefore believe that the current situation is a good example of the federalism of cooperation that you are asking about. As regards the evaluation and updating of the 1994 and 1995 cooperation agreements relating to foreign policy, I can tell you that, as provided for in the coalition agreement and my policy statement and notes, they are indeed dealt with by the federal government. The starting point is, of course, the current division of powers between the federal state, the Communities and the Regions, as enshrined in Belgian constitutional law. As a possible revision of these cooperation agreements could have a significant impact on the representation of Belgium abroad and in the Council of the European Union, as well as on the way in which Belgian EU policies are designed, proper preparation is necessary. As a result, consultations have already taken place at federal level and will continue in the coming weeks and months. The issue will also be discussed with the federated entities in the framework of the next Foreign Policy Conference on 23 February, which unfortunately has not been able to take place before due to agenda reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u55	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, but frankly, what you are saying here is absolutely not in line with what I hear from practice. I'm very sorry to hear that. I am not concerned about what you have to say here or not, because that is not my concern, but if there are signs that the flow of information is not going well, then I think you are doing everything you can to make it work. However, you answer that there is no problem at all. You even say that everything is a fine example of federalism. I think you yourself know that in reality that is not the case at all. Reference is often made to the number of meetings that take place, but not to the number of meetings, which information comes to who. That is why I understand that there is absolutely no complete transparency and that not all the necessary information is flowing through. I regret that very much, because I am convinced that we can only strengthen each other. We're already a super small country. For example, in the Flemish Permanent Representation there is a great deal of talent, many of which can strengthen our politicians, and that is why I regret that the necessary information flow is not being provided. I sincerely hope that this will finally be done. If you really mean what you are saying, you will systematically include someone from the Länder in the Belgian representation at the European Council. That is not happening either. The corona pandemic is being screened, so that only a limited delegation could take place. If, however, you are serious about federalism, then you will by default include a representative of the Länder, no matter how small the delegation is. None of that's gonna happen. If there is one real Belgian bastion left, then it is Foreign Affairs. I have the impression that you find it very difficult to let go of that and to make effective work of federalism of cooperation, as we should know in our country. That is a pity, because I am convinced that this leaves us with a lot of opportunities. I sincerely hope that you will at last work on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u56	Madam President, first of all, I want to make sure that I have understood correctly. I hope I have misunderstood you, and if so, you may forget my words, but I cannot accept that what I have said in my reply would not be correct and I would be aware of it. That's not my way of working. I work like everyone else with people who are very loyal to everyone. Certainly the people of Foreign Affairs, the people who work in Coreper or the people who represent us in the various institutions are very loyal, not to me personally, but to our country, our Constitution, and certainly to the Regions and Communities; so to everyone. I would never accept a reflection without answers. If that is the consideration, I cannot and will not accept them. Nothing's perfect. That is never the case. This is certainly not the case in a human working environment, where everyone is doing their best and dealing with a lot of work and information. I do not dare to say that there is never a problem, but that people working for Foreign Affairs or other representations at European level would organise things structurally so that the right to information would be ignored is not a proper evaluation of the method of working.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u57	I thank the Minister for her two answers. She says she's surprised at our questions, but I'm as surprised at her answer as there would be no problem at all, and everything would go well. That's easy to kill. In the meantime, we are still in the absurd situation that the Länder cannot properly complete representation at European, international and bilateral level, and that is precisely for areas for which they do have internal competence. I understand that it requires a great deal of preparation to revise that, but it does not inspire me to trust that, first of all, you did not mention timing, and secondly, that you spoke of a possible revision, despite the fact that it is in your government agreement. It is hallucinating that the federal government is still filling in the international aspects of competences based on a division of the cooperation agreements of the 1990s. This means that Flanders abroad is still served from a federal perspective for domains for which it has been competent for at least 26 years. It is incomprehensible that no timing can yet be attached to this in order to put this right. You yourself referred to the institutional context that has changed. The Länder need to be much more closely involved in these policy bodies, in the consultative bodies of European and international institutions. Flanders cannot have to implement all kinds of EU legislation, and is responsible internally for its transposition, but is not involved in preparatory acts or in international representation. Please restore the foro interno in foro externalo principle as soon as possible and make this review really work. The situation is all the more absurd since Flanders is one of the largest net contributors in the European Union, but in many areas it is still represented by the federal level. The adadium 'Flanders pays, but Belgium determines' may as far as we are concerned end as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u58	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55023206C by Mr Cogolati, 55023473C by Mr Lacroix, 55023254C by Mrs Buyst and 55023272C by Mrs Depoorter lapsed in the absence of the questioners.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u59	Madam President, Minister, I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u60	I would like to ask you the following questions: What is the attitude of your cabinet and that of our government towards the sanctioning mechanism of the European hammer? Will a supranational sanction mechanism not have a negative effect on our own economy, as at the time with the Russian fruit boycott, without the sanctions having any effect? How do you see further developments in the negotiations between the European Member States on this sanction mechanism?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u61	Mr. Cogolati is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u62	Madam President, following the opening of a representation in Vilnius under the name of Taiwanese Representation Office, instead of Taipei as in other Member States, and the public announcement of Lithuania's withdrawal from the "17+1" format, Lithuania has experienced significant reprisals of China of both political, diplomatic and commercial nature. These commercial reprisal measures are taken outside any legal framework. The scale of these measures affects the exports of many other countries, and that is totally unacceptable. Belgium has expressed its solidarity with Lithuania and calls on Beijing to honour its international commitments. Since these measures are clearly discriminatory, the European Commission may soon call on the dispute settlement mechanism of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) to which China is a member. After all, the European Commission represents the European Union (EU) at the WTO and is therefore the sole authority to initiate dispute resolution proceedings. Our country is in favour of initiating such a procedure. As far as the 12th WTO Ministerial Conference is concerned, it seems premature to me to decide at this stage what Belgium could emphasise in this context, since no new date has yet been set. Moreover, the main objective of such a ministerial conference is to reach a consensus between WTO members on important issues such as WTO reform, trade, health, fisheries, subsidies, etc. A certain degree of caution is therefore required in order not to jeopardise this main objective. However, this conference could also be a good opportunity for the EU to discuss this issue bilaterally and directly with China. The impact of the Chinese measures against Lithuania on Belgium's trade activities is, according to the information available to me, rather limited. The FPS Economy should shortly carry out a short analysis of the impact of these measures. This example shows that it is important that effective and rapidly activating countermeasures can be taken if the EU's trade interests, or one or more of its Member States, are harmed by coercive measures. The EU already has the enforcement regulation, but this instrument needs to be complemented. The rapid entry into force of the anti-poverty instrument should have a dissuasive effect on third countries. It gives the EU the opportunity to deter third countries from taking coercive measures. In this sense, we believe that this instrument promotes a smooth flow of trade rather than creates barriers to trade. It seems clear to me that the Chinese sanction against Lithuania must be assessed and taken into account in the framework of this future instrument once it is operational. On 8 December 2021, the Commission published its proposal. The real negotiations within the Council will therefore not take place until the next few weeks. Representatives of the FPS Economy and the Trade Affairs Working Party are responsible for this discussion. I would remind you that the instrument of restraint will be the result of an agreement between the Commission, the Member States and the European Parliament. Belgium contributed to the public consultation that took place in the last spring. On this basis, the following preliminary elements can be mentioned. It is clear that this new instrument must be credible, transparent and effective, as well as WTO-compliant. It will have to be used in an appropriate and dosed manner. In order to prevent an escalation of reprisals, it will be crucial that the Commission acts gradually. The proposed Regulation stresses that any use of coercive measures should be preceded by negotiations to obtain the withdrawal of the measures in question. The use of this instrument must therefore go hand in hand with the constant search for solutions that are acceptable to both sides. Finally, it should be made clear that this instrument is of a commercial nature. It cannot be used as a result of coercive measures of a political nature and only commercial countermeasures can be considered. As trade policy falls within the exclusive competence of the European Commission, it seems appropriate that such measures can be taken by qualified majority. However, we will ensure that the instrument is not misused or misused and that the Member States are consulted and involved, as provided for in the procedure proposed by the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u63	Madam Minister, I do not think there is an official Dutch translation for it yet. It concerns a new proposal from the European Commission. We cannot ignore it in order to extend its own powers. Perhaps it is a little frustrated by the limited possibilities available today to provide concrete answers to possible conflicts. The conflict between China and Lithuania is a good example of this. We therefore immediately see what political influence trade and trade sanctions can have. We have already discussed Russia in this context today. You say that you want to ensure that it remains a genuine trade instrument and that it does not become a political instrument, but there is still a very thin line between the two. It is very important that we use another word here, but I forgot how to deal with it. I am also very pleased that you say that the Member States still have an important role to play, because of course it is still the Member States that have to decide on this. They must continue to play an important role, because the consequences of such trade sanctions must not, of course, be underestimated. For example, they will often have indirect and sometimes very negative consequences for our country. So it certainly needs to be followed up. You are right that it is just a proposal from the European Commission and that it still needs a long process of negotiations in Parliament, the Council and then the trilogues. We shall see what happens to it, but we must follow it closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u64	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. You say that the negotiations are ongoing and that it is premature to make an effective statement on the Belgian position on this matter. We have no choice but to follow that up here in this committee. At the same time, the European Union is tired of China's intimidation. That much is clear; and rightly so. The economic putsch that China is putting on us is becoming three-star and stronger. Apparently, they are not too bad to settle political disputes through economic warfare. So we must also pay attention because we do not fight with equal weapons in this area and we must not be too good and too naive. Situations where European companies are put under pressure cannot be accepted. Let's get that straight. The EU's investment agreement, which is increasingly opening up our market to China, but which is not subject to any concessions from the Chinese side, will not be able to remedy it, although the agreement is still on hold at the moment. That's actually already a weapon to fight our backs against China's growing influence. I therefore believe that further consultation is indeed insisting on maintaining and defending the EU's trade interests. I thank you in advance for your efforts on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u65	Madam Secretary, I am pleased with your answer. It is clear that our country is on Lithuania's side. You rightly say that there has been action outside the legal framework, that there has been solidarity and refers to international commitments. In this respect, I certainly agree with the attitude you have taken in the various fora. It is also a good thing that we are defending the dispute resolution procedure. As far as Lithuania is concerned, I met with the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs this week. Members were also invited to this meeting. Lithuania remains combative. As a neighbouring country of Russia, we are already used to a great deal and we are not intimidated by such things. People clearly feel that attitude is embedded in the spirit of those people. They will not be intimidated when it comes to the threat to sovereignty and democracy. They are combative because they no longer want to go back to the past, if I may refer to the previous debate. The same applies to China. They maintain their policy on Taipe and Taïwan. I believe that the anti-poverty mechanism is a useful mechanism that the European Union is about to introduce. It is good that the first step is always dialogue. If this dialogue is unsuccessful, counter-measures can indeed be taken, as you rightly say. However, I believe that we need such mechanisms to stop this form of intimidation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic674x.u66	This is where our meeting ends. The other questions will be put at the next meeting.
