ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic708x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament 55024248C, 55024837C, 55025248C and 55025256C by Mrs Depoorter are converted into written questions, since she is currently in charge of the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic708x.u2	Madam Secretary, in Nigeria, more than one million AstraZeneca vaccines, donated by the West, which threatened to exceed the expiry date, were destroyed at the end of December 2021. In De Standaard of 27 January you yourself suggested that giving vaccines in the long term is not a good solution. Now it appears that the destroyed vaccines ended up in a landfill instead of being treated as small hazardous waste. The AstraZeneca vaccine is a vector vaccine based on an adenovirus. It's like those adenoviruses that are chimpanzees' cold viruses that could cause problems. The dumping of that virus into an open dump can cause the spread of the genetically modified virus. A crossover in the genetic material would occur quite frequently in vivo. Such vaccines should therefore be disposed of as biohazardous waste in accordance with the rules for genetically modified organisms as also indicated in the AstraZeneca package leaflet. Moreover, in this context, a donation to poor countries seems to be more of a back door for dumping almost expired vaccines than effective aid. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. Which countries were donated by Belgium vaccines, how many vaccines were involved and what was their expiry date? How many vaccines were donated via COVAX and what was their expiry date? Was it verified that the donated vaccines could be stored under optimal conditions? Was there any material provided or donated for the storage and transport of the donated vaccines? Madam Secretary, recently you visited the South African company Biovac together with the head of the WHO and virologist Marc Van Ranst on the basis of the patent-free vaccine that the company was able to develop. For this development, the WHO has invested EUR 90 million and Belgium EUR 8 million. In this way, the company wants to facilitate access to vaccination in the Third World and combat vaccination inequalities. You stated on 2 February 2022 in De Morgen that this development is a game changer and that we could put the patent debate behind us. You also noted that many vaccine doses, as I indicated in the previous question, which are allocated to the Third World, were almost expired upon arrival. I have a number of questions about this. Can you explain more about the statement that the patent debate is now behind us? Can you explain the full programme of your visit to South Africa and its cost? Are the investments in the patent-free vaccine, which is primarily intended for developing countries, budgeted as development aid?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic708x.u3	Madam President, Minister, we have heard that the South African company Afrigen has managed to crack down or uncover the recipe for Moderna's mRNA vaccine. In this way, Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna's monopoly on mRNA vaccines could be broken, which is of course a good thing. We indicated this on several occasions last time. We regret, however, that the foregoing has been used as a reason to give up the fight for the lifting of those patents. The development does not change the need to lift the patents. Human Rights Watch and Doctors Without Borders already identify more than one hundred production sites where mRNA vaccines can be produced, if they are not prevented from doing so, just by intellectual property rights. The lifting of patents, as has often been advocated here in committee, could, in the relatively short term, lead to the stepping up of the global vaccination campaign. The fact that Afrigen outdated the recipe of the Moderna vaccine does not mean that the global vaccination campaign will be able to be stepped up in the short term. After all, the vaccine will still have to undergo several test phases. That could take up to 36 months. An application for approval may be submitted only thereafter. Furthermore, the whole dossier is in a situation of legal uncertainty. Moderna has indicated that she will not enforce her rights. That's right. Nevertheless, the Health Justice Initiative recently announced that Moderna will also apply for patents in South Africa, which may sabotage the efforts of the lab and the World Health Organisation. In addition, Moderna can unilaterally decide that COVID-19 has become endemic and that it will still enforce its rights. Madam Secretary, that is why I have the following questions. When do you think the vaccine developed in South Africa can be given for the first time? What will the current government do if Moderna will obstruct the efforts of the South African vaccine and, consequently, jeopardise Belgian investment? You also travelled with the Director-General of the World Health Organization to the lab in South Africa. Did you also talk about the proposal and the World Trade Organisation? Do you want vaccines to be produced in 100 locations identified by Humans Rights Watch and Doctors Without Borders and will Belgium support the proposal in the World Trade Organisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic708x.u4	Madam Secretary, you visited the tech transfer hub in South Africa, where a breakthrough was achieved. We are very pleased about that. It is also a good breakthrough that Belgium has contributed to this. That is a successful initiative, but that does not mean that the matter is resolved. You are well aware of that, too. In addition to the structural solution, we have always advocated the contribution to the supply of vaccines on the spot. We do not hear much about this, but in the least developed countries there is only a 10% vaccination rate for the second dose. 36 countries are below the 10% vaccination rate. The World Health Organization has set a 70% vaccination rate by mid-year. The Omikron virus is hopefully almost out of the world. Hopefully there won't be a new variant, but we need to be prepared. It's good that Afrigen is here. What will be the timing of a patent-free vaccine on a large scale? What have you established on the scene? Are there any additional investments planned to speed things up? In addition to this initiative, are there any additional initiatives planned to reach 70%? You've had a chance to talk to the people on the spot. How do they feel about the situation there? My proposal will be discussed in committee tomorrow. The donation of vaccines must also take into account how many we have in our reserve today. Shouldn't we say faster that we have enough vaccines and give and donate?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic708x.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Let me start by sharing the vaccines. To date, almost 12 million doses of COVAX have been donated by Belgium. Mrs Van Hoof, this in philosophy: one vaccine per Belgian. Not one dose per Belgian, but one vaccine per Belgian we want to donate. Of these, more than 8 million doses have been delivered since the start of the donation, mid 2021. Those vaccines went to Senegal, Uganda, Mozambique, Egypt, Rwanda, Niger, Kenya, Burkina Faso, Armenia and Vietnam. Bilaterally, Belgium has donated to Uganda, Tunisia and Vietnam. 100,000 AstraZeneca vaccines were delivered to Vietnam, on 9 September 2021, 1,700 doses had an expiry date of 21 days, 98,300 doses had an expiry date of 82 days. 150,000 AstraZeneca vaccines were delivered to Tunisia on 22 July 2021. The expiry date was more than 4 months at the time of shipment. 153,900 AstraZeneca vaccines were delivered to Uganda on 22 September 2021. 1,500 doses had an expiry date of 40 days. 152.400 doses had an expiry date of 70 days. In total, only 3,200 of the bilaterally donated AstraZeneca doses had a delay of less than 2 months, out of a total of 403,900. The expiry date varies by vaccine. In theory, for Johnson&Johnson it is nearly 2 years, for Moderna and Pfizer it is 6 months, and for AstraZeneca it is 3 months. Per delivery it is the manufacturer who informs COVAX about the expiration date of the palette. Only if there is a shortage, i.e. a expiration date of less than 10 weeks, will the donor, Belgium in this case, be informed and the choice will be left to the recipient country to refuse or not. A single donation of 199,200 doses of AstraZeneca was not accepted by COVAX due to the too short expiration date. These doses have never left the producer and will be destroyed by the company. Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that the short expiry date is an important obstacle to the logistical process of sharing vaccines. Belgium has therefore committed itself since November with the other European Member States to apply a minimum expiration date of 2.5 months. That's an important signal. Then I come to the important challenges posed by the global vaccination programmes. We were always very aware that the distribution of vaccines is not only logistically challenging in difficult places, but also that the necessary medical equipment required to ensure safe and timely vaccinations is a challenge. For the low-resources low-income countries, COVAX and UNICEF send the material including syringes with the vaccines. In order to ensure that our vaccines always end up well and correctly, I decided to add 3 million euros to COVAX in addition to our vaccine donation, so that the logistical distribution could be made possible and the administration with safe material could be done. The volume of future donations will depend on the demand and willingness of the countries concerned, particularly Africa, to receive donations. As you know, sharing vaccines is an exceptionally difficult logistical exercise. It is also anything but a sustainable solution. The African Union and the African CDC are reporting this more and more, even at last week's EU-Africa Summit. Today, only 1% of all vaccines used are produced on home soil. The African Union wants to move towards a production of 60% by 2040. We support that objective. Africa wants structural solutions and no longer depends on the import of medical products. We can only support that. I have done so in practice over the past few months, by participating in the campaign with concrete achievements in Senegal and South Africa. I would also like to address the question concerning the classification of vaccine donation as official development aid. Just because it must be our first priority to work on long-term structural solutions, I understand the criticism of many NGOs that the current vaccine inequality is also a result of the past wagering on the available vaccines by the rich countries. There is no definitive agreement in the OECD Development Committee on how to charge for the donation of vaccines as development aid. In order to maintain coherence, transparency and comparability between donors, provisional guidelines have been drawn up allowing a lump sum of EUR 6.72 per vaccine to be charged. I do not think it is a good idea to charge the vaccines as development aid, but if Belgium is the only country that does not, it risks creating a negative picture of the Belgian effort in this area, while we are among the world's top in terms of vaccination donation. Therefore, in the coming weeks, Belgium will look at how directives can be applied without artificially blowing up the ODA figures and ensuring transparency and comparability. Mrs Samyn, you had a question about the imputability of investments in the production of the patentless vaccine. It is true that Belgium does not invest directly in Afrigen, but in the mRNA vaccine technology transfer hub, which includes training and research to allow the production of covid vaccines by 2024. For this, I have released EUR 4 million through the WHO. Indeed, the sharing of vaccines remains an absolute necessity. A further EUR 4 million has also been invested through the WHO to strengthen, inter alia, the C-TAP platform. Here technology is shared between developers and manufacturers for vaccines and other medical products. That is important because this is a patentless formula. Both amounts are earmarked contributions to the World Health Organisation registered as normal development aid. In addition, the mRNA hub works in a sustainable and voluntary manner with pharmaceutical companies, vaccine manufacturers and medicines for knowledge and technology sharing. It remains crucial to maintain dialogue with the private sector. They can voluntarily share the knowledge, a question that still sounds loud in many countries that are ready to produce. That would certainly speed up the process of vaccinating everyone worldwide. I therefore call on industry to join in this story. Mrs Van Hoof, I am proud to have been able to identify the first results of the research in South Africa at the beginning of February, together with the Director of the World Health Organization, Dr Tedros Ghebereyesus, with whom I have indeed been able to exchange extensively with the people on the ground. We have discussed the challenges and the international response to this pandemic. I have found in him a great supporter of the pursuit of equitable access to vaccines for all. Dr. Tedros Ghebreyesus has great respect for the leading role played by a small country like Belgium. The fact that we did this visit together also shows a strong international partnership. After two years of pandemics, we know that we will only get out of this crisis if we work together internationally. There are two things that can pull us through this pandemic: science and solidarity. By focusing on global access to vaccines, we ensure that everyone is safe. We are hopefully going towards code yellow with Belgium today, but then we must also persevere. In order to prevent future variants, we must continue to focus on global vaccination. Dr. Tedros Ghebreyesus confirmed it during the trip itself: only when 70% of the population has been vaccinated in all countries can we get out of the acute phase of this pandemic. So our efforts are still vital. Mrs. Samyn, you had questions about the patents. Developing vaccines and medicines in Africa via the mRNA hub is neither more nor less than a real game changer for Africa in the field of medicines. If we continued to discuss patents and did not take any other initiatives, we would still be as far away today. This means that developing countries would still be fully dependent on what Western countries want to donate. The fact that a vaccine is being worked on without patents and that this vaccine will be produced and developed in Africa offers hope for the future. We can be proud in Belgium that we have taken part in that cart. Moreover, the World Health Organisation's research programme on forgotten tropical diseases will work closely with this hub. In addition to knowledge and technology, training of people working in laboratories and research centres is equally crucial. The Belgian funding of the World Health Organisation will also be used for this purpose. Working structuralally to improve global health means strengthening whole health systems. That is exactly what we want to do. With regard to the delegation of my mission to South Africa, my policy cell included my diplomatic advisor, a consultant, my spokesperson and someone from the communication cell. From the FOD they were the Deputy Director-General of the DGD, an expert and the spokesperson of the FOD. Finally, virologist Dr. Van Ranst traveled as an external expert. As far as the cost of this mission is concerned, since we have not yet received all invoices and final bills, it is not yet possible to give the exact cost. I can tell you that the entire delegation flew in economics class. This mission was carried out in the context of our support for the World Health Organisation mRNA hub. In addition to visiting the companies and research bodies that are part of the hub, I also had meetings with South African President Ramaphosa, the Minister of Health, Science and Innovation and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. This dialogue and meeting have proved crucial in preparing for the EU-Africa Summit in Brussels, which took place shortly after our journey. As you know, South Africa plays a crucial role in the debate on fair access to vaccines. My intention was to bring all partners closer together on this important issue so that Belgium could take a leading role in strengthening health worldwide, during the fight against the corona crisis, but also as a proactive and reliable partner afterwards. In addition, the delegation visited the centre of CERI which discovered the omikron variant. A global capacity of surveillance against variants is necessary for our health safety. Finally, we have also visited an initiative aimed at removing doubts about vaccines in some parts of the population in a very accessible way. We visited a local center. The closer healthcare is to the population, the stronger health is worldwide. On the third day of the mission, I visited a number of local initiatives that are active in protecting socially vulnerable young people. The World Health Organisation expects clinical trials on the Afrigen vaccine to start in the fourth quarter of this year, with approval and production of vaccines in 2024. But actually, this whole exercise is especially crucial because mRNA technology can not only be used in the current pandemic but can also play an essential role in a next pandemic. MRNA technology will also be able to be used in the future for the development of vaccines against other diseases. We must learn at all costs what has gone wrong this time and arm ourselves to the next challenges. We must not again make the mistake of stopping our investments in public and preventive health care once the pandemic is over. The COVID-19 vaccine of the hub is a new vaccine created on the basis of publicly available data on the Moderna vaccine. Cooperation with Moderna in the form of a licence and technology transfer would greatly speed up the existing process and facilitate easier access to COVID-19 vaccines. But even without such a license, the hub can continue its work. The extent to which Moderna's patents would still apply to some aspects of the vaccine is currently being investigated by the Medicines Patent Pool responsible for intellectual property rights and the licenses of the vaccine produced by the hub. There is therefore intense consultation with Moderna on the one hand in order to reach a comparison, and on the other hand there are several options on the table if this would not work, such as the application of a compulsory licence. In any case, there is a clear conclusion: large pharmaceutical companies such as Moderna can choose to accelerate or slow down the fight against the pandemic in Africa. With regard to the further discussion within the WTO on the TRIPS waiver, please refer to Minister Wilmès. As you know, it is the European Union that represents the Member States at the WTO for this discussion. You will also know that it is extremely difficult to find a global consensus on the waver. That is why I choose to take action now that will lead to concrete results. Nevertheless, this discussion remains extremely important and has also been held at the EU-Africa Summit in recent weeks. Let us be honest, we have lost time simply because we have to look for another alternative. If we had reached agreement on this sooner, local production would have started much faster. Finally, I am aware of the list of potential local producers. Some of these producers, such as the Institut Pasteur in Dakar, were selected as recipients of the mRNA technology of the South African hub we support. Belgium also supports the Institut Pasteur and our Senegalese partners in their ambition to produce health products locally, including through the training of staff and the establishment of strong regulatory authorities to ensure the quality of these health products. In short, during the mission, we found that there is a great deal of will, a great deal of motivation to make this work, to learn lessons from the pandemic, to do better, not only for South Africa but for the entire African continent, in partnership, both with science and the private sector and with politics. Failure is not an option. We have heard this on several occasions. It is up to us to further support this story and ensure that it succeeds.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic708x.u6	Madam Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive and full reply. That cannot be said of every minister. In order to better distribute these corona vaccines worldwide, the COVAX programme was indeed created. That's a super good initiative. However, it remains a sad observation that the poorest countries are still too often taking advantage of these vaccines. Mrs Van Hoof just outlined the percentage of questions. We see that the situation in Africa is the most poignant. On a continent where nearly a fifth of the world's population lives, vaccinations have barely been administered. I understand that there are logistical difficulties with regard to the distribution of vaccines, but it cannot, of course, be the intention to send almost expired vaccines, which must therefore be destroyed. It therefore seems appropriate to me to take action now and to use long-term solutions to combat this vaccine inequality.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic708x.u7	Madam Minister, thank you for your detailed answer, but it is not one or the other, it is an en-en-story. Supporting Africa in the development of its own vaccine is really essential, even in the future. What is even more important now to combat the pandemic is the immediate lifting of patents. You're turning things around a little bit. We must not depend on the goodwill of big pharma to share knowledge and technology; no, this government must take a stand. She must join and support the TRIPS Waiver. You also know that lifting the patents is the fastest and most sustainable way to boost the global vaccination rate. Otherwise, you would not have made such a passionate plea in your opinion paper in December 2021. This morning, in the Health Committee, a motion for a resolution from our party, the PVDA, was discussed about the lifting of the patents and even your party simply voted against it. That's punishment, isn't it? Sorry, Madam Secretary, but it smells a little like defeatism. By taking this position now, you are abandoning the broad civil society that is still fighting for the waiver of patents. First, you try to cover up the powerlessness of this government by pointing out how well the COVAX programme is working, but now it becomes clear that a large proportion of the vaccines will be destroyed, up to 55 million units according to the People's Vaccines Alliance. I don't understand. The government should support a progressive movement rather than bend for the pharmaceutical industry. When does this government take responsibility? Sixty-three percent of the Belgians were in favour of the World Trade Organisation proposal. Madam Minister, I had hoped that you would show the courage to continue to support that broad civil society and that progressive movement, including within the government, in a fight for a world in which medicine serves public health, not the profits of a small elite.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic708x.u8	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. I have heard a lot of things that we can also take with us tomorrow in the debate on, among other things, COVAX. I have also heard very important principles from you, which I myself support. We must, indeed, continue to pursue science and solidarity. As far as global vaccination is concerned, the second important principle is that 70% still needs to be vaccinated. I myself began to doubt this in connection with Omikron, but it was finally confirmed by the Secretary-General of the WHO, who said that it was still necessary and that we are still in the acute phase. That is why we must continue to use vaccination. Those are important principles. The question is, what are we gonna do as long as there's no TRIPs waver? That is why it is a good thing what has happened in South Africa. There too, of course, it depends on others how quickly we can get to work with that formula. If Moderna were to put science and solidarity first, we could move forward quickly. So I hope, as you say, that people will come to a comparison and not work with compulsory licences, because that also takes a lot of time. That's a very important fact you gave me here. The second important principle that I heard from you is that we have to supply the material with vaccine donation. You said we invested. You can't do anything with vaccines if you don't have syringes. There appears to be a huge shortage of syringes, and it is good that we also continue to invest from Belgium. As long as we are donating our money, and in that context, I hope that there will be planning soon, we must continue to add the logistical materials to make sure that the vaccines actually disappear into the poor. Of course, there has to be a vaccine willingness among the population on the ground. There is probably still a need for a lot of awareness-raising actions in this area, because even in European countries such as Romania, the vaccines are dangerous and have all kinds of side effects. I wonder what that would be in Africa, but you probably know more about that. We will undoubtedly continue this debate on various elements in the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic708x.u9	Madam Minister, hearing nothing about the Syrian refugee crisis does not mean that it is over. This is sometimes thought to be the case, but the humanitarian situation in neighbouring countries is not getting any better. We have adopted a resolution on this issue, at the end of last year, which calls for a sustainable solution. I know that, especially after your visit to the site, you are absolutely in favour of this and that you are making all the necessary efforts to do so. My first question is what is happening this year with regard to humanitarian resources, as the crisis there continues to deteriorate in the humanitarian field. Are the UN's humanitarian countries' funds now being used to this end? Will increased efforts be made, as requested in the resolution, for the year 2022? How should we deal with the triple nexus that was asked, and with the location of the aid? Will there be work on the ground with civil society? Are resources used to build society to boost the local capacity of the aid by local organisations? What specific actions are being undertaken with UNHCR to identify options for an international mechanism for a free, voluntary and dignified return to Syria, should that be an option? Will Belgium then play a role in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic708x.u10	Thank you, Mrs Van Hoof. You're right. It's not because the conflict doesn't get in the press that it's over. Unfortunately, there are still more. You know that I attach great importance to the fate of Syrian refugees. Young Syrian refugees who often live a large part of their lives in refugee camps want to move forward. They want to build a future and we cannot ask them to wait until there is a solution in their home country. I therefore welcome any initiative seeking a sustainable solution, both resettlement, integration and voluntary return, provided that this can be done in safe, voluntary and dignified conditions. Syrian refugees are supported in different ways. Belgium contributes to several flexible funds in 2022. We have the humanitarian fund for Syria with EUR 7 million, the crossborder fund through Turkey with EUR 4 million, the humanitarian fund for Lebanon with EUR 4 million and the NGO programmes in the region, with EUR 1 million for Caritas in Jordan. Belgium also contributes to the overall resources of several multilateral humanitarian organisations operating in the Syrian context such as UNRWA, UNHCR, ICRC and WFP. The project financing of 2022 will be decided shortly, but the main objective will be continuity compared to 2021 in view of the ongoing needs. We also contribute to the Madad Fund that focuses on the triple nexus and the localization of the aid. Since its creation, the fund has spent EUR 2.38 billion on the reception and self-reliance of 7.8 million refugees and the support of host communities. Our country contributed about 9 million euros over the past year. Through the funding of flexible funds, we also contribute to localisation. The funds are made available to a large number of partners, including national and local NGOs. As for your question about the basic allocation of society, Belgium is funding a project by the local Lebanese NGO Amel on the impact of COVID-19 on gender-related violence in refugees and host communities. It has not yet been decided how this basic allocation will be used for 2022. Within the framework of civil society programmes, non-governmental actors themselves define their priorities. Over the next five years, actions in Lebanon will also be funded for the first time, with a focus on Syrian refugees and host communities. UNHCR is indeed an important partner of Belgium, including Syria. The organisation has a strong mandate, which I fully support, to provide international protection for refugees to return only in safe, voluntary and dignified conditions. There are still many questions and doubts about an additional monitoring mechanism, as suggested. I absolutely do not want the Syrian authorities to use such a mechanism to become involved in its operation. Moreover, it is not clear how a new monitoring mechanism would relate to the monitoring that UNHCR is already doing today. That is why I am maintaining confidence in UNHCR's monitoring right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic708x.u11	Madam Minister, thank you very much for updating the resources that are being given. I have to compare them to what happened last year. You yourself are involved in a commitment to continue to do so and to keep an eye on the crisis, which is getting a little out of sight. Probably won't be long before it comes back up. It is good that we continue to work on this and keep our finger on the pulse with all the multilateral funds. I thought the monitoring mechanism hadn't been implemented yet. The intention is indeed not to cooperate with Syria, but to ensure that the monitoring mechanism becomes active. I did not understand correctly from your answer what the evolution of this monitoring mechanism is now for a safe, voluntary and dignified return and its application. Perhaps you do not have any further specifications and we can discuss that again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic708x.u12	I was not so clear from your question whether you were talking about a new monitoring mechanism or the UNHCR monitoring mechanism. I thought you suggested a new mechanism. UNHCR's monitoring mechanism is ongoing for the time being, and we will follow it up. We do have faith in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic708x.u13	It is therefore a regional operational framework that checks whether the return is successful. That framework does not exist today. This is crucial, as many refugees end up in Syria and are not treated in a dignified manner. After all, they are being re-arrested there. It would be useful to apply the framework and review the monitoring mechanism on the spot.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic708x.u14	Mr De Smet, as you also point out, the humanitarian needs in Yemen are enormous. The conflict has been going on for more than seven years now, and unfortunately we have seen another escalation recently. People still live in fear and uncertainty. I will be very clear: violence must stop. We cannot forget the people of Yemen. It is for this reason that I decided last year to mobilise, on an exceptional basis, EUR 5 million for the humanitarian fund for Yemen, managed by the United Nations Office for Humanitarian Coordination (OCHA). The funding of this flexible fund makes it possible to deploy our aid in the most effective way possible and to finance local organisations. We also support a specific Oxfam Belgium programme in the country, focusing on food security and protection for €791,250. In 2022, a contribution of €5 million will again be made to the humanitarian fund, and the same amount is planned for Oxfam. As you know, Belgium is a modern and principal humanitarian donor and is committed to providing 60 per cent of humanitarian resources for flexible funding. For example, we contribute to the general resources of OCHA, the United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR), the United Nations Relief and Reconstruction Administration (UNRRA), the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) and global flexible funds such as the Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF), the Immediate Response Account (IRA), the Special Fund for Emergency and Recovery Activities (SFERA) and the Disaster Relief Emergency Fund (DREF). This flexible funding enables a rapid and effective response to humanitarian crises. Yemen is also a priority for these organizations and funds. As far as the priority areas of Belgium are concerned, we choose to concentrate on a number of regions, where Belgian experience and expertise are recognised and where we can therefore provide quality assistance. For this reason, Belgian humanitarian aid focuses on the Sahel region, the Great Lakes region, the occupied Palestinian territories, as well as Syria and its neighbouring countries affected by the Syrian crisis. These are protracted and complex crises, which are increasingly disappearing from international radar. Funding for these crises is constantly lacking, but in such dramatic situations as Yemen, it is important that Belgium make an exceptional effort. We cannot abandon the Yemeni people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic708x.u15	Minister, thank you for your clear answer. In addition, I thank you and your services for not dropping this Yemeni population. You recalled the seriousness of this conflict. It is also perhaps the conflict in the area, following the war in Syria, which is the least publicized. He is regularly forgotten. Without the efforts of a few, and in particular Belgian Cooperation, whom I thank, this conflict would probably be totally forgotten. Thank you for continuing your efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic708x.u16	Madam Minister, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic708x.u17	I remain very concerned about the situation in Ethiopia, particularly in the regions of Tigray, Afar and Amhara. Humanitarian needs are enormous and, unfortunately, unhindered access to the regions remains a major concern. The humanitarian issue is a political challenge and a security challenge for all those involved in the conflict. I will never accept that vital aid, such as food and medicine, does not reach the population. Emergency workers should be able to do their job. Respect for international humanitarian law is therefore crucial, and I will continue to argue for it. Factors that can explain the situation include bureaucratic constraints, the difficulty in obtaining humanitarian visas and the difficulties in sending funds. In addition, there is a climate of distrust of humanitarian aid workers and, finally, there is insecurity caused by the fighting, particularly in the Afar region. Moreover, the humanitarian operations in Tigray are largely limited or suspended due to a lack of fuel, money and supplies. I am pleased to inform you that the UNHAS flights of the World Food Programme have been resumed since November 2021, with three flights per week. Secondly, I continue to encourage all mediation efforts. The hostilities must stop and humanitarian access must be assured. I support the efforts of the European Union to this end. This week, the European Commissioner for Humanitarian Affairs, Lenarčič, spoke to Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiya Ahmed on the occasion of the EU/AU Summit in Brussels. As you know, I have already signed several joint calls from countries such as the US, Canada and several EU Member States, addressed to the Ethiopian Government, calling for humanitarian access to be guaranteed. The EU organised two air bridges in 2021 to obtain humanitarian aid in Tigray. Unfortunately, these operations had to follow cumbersome administrative procedures. The first flight landed in Mek'ele, Tigray on September 11th. However, only foodstuffs were allowed and all medical supplies of the original 7,3 tonnes of pomelos were seized and released a few months later. On 6 October, a second flight arrived in Mek'ele with additional food supplies from Unicef and emergency packages for hospitals. No new humanitarian bridges are planned at this stage. The EU supports humanitarian organisations specifically dealing with logistics issues such as the World Food Programme with €5 million. Unfortunately, however, I have to tell you again that many of these organisations are suffering from a lack of approval from the authorities for commercial and freight flights. Although Ethiopia does not belong to the priority geographical areas for Belgian humanitarian aid, Belgium has nevertheless supported the country in view of the seriousness of the crisis in 2021. This involved financing EUR 4 million for a project by the International Committee of the Red Cross to provide shelter and protection for victims in Tigray and EUR 1.5 million for a World Food Programme project to provide emergency food aid and food support to 1.5 million people in the Tigray region. Furthermore, EUR 500 million of our total contribution to SFERA was specifically earmarked for agricultural activities in Tigray. Mrs Van Hoof, as you know, we have an objective of 60% flexible funding within the humanitarian budget. This will enable the major humanitarian partners such as the International Red Cross to provide rapid and efficient support to Ethiopia, more specifically in the region of Tigray. Given the gravity of the situation, I decided to provide specific support in 2022. The extent of this is currently determined in the allocation of humanitarian resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic708x.u18	Thank you for the answer, Madam Secretary. Syria, Yemen and Ethiopia are humanitarian catastrophes. We hear very little about that. I appreciate that you continue to pay attention to this, even if it is in the luwe. This reminds me of the situation in the '80s with Live Aid, where we saw the emaciated bodies on television. That was heartbreaking. I fear that the situation is so serious that this is happening there. We need to make sure that humanitarian aid hits the ground. We have to make every effort to do that. You referred to the different air bridges. I was wondering whether an investigation mission is also being undertaken to ensure that such crimes against humanity are documented. The refusal of humanitarian access is such a crime. I know that the Red Cross is gathering evidence of violations of humanitarian law. Does our country argue that this would also be done by the UN? That's another suggestion you didn't say.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic708x.u19	Madam Minister, the coalition agreement contains an interesting passage which states that the federal government's policy will be tailored to the needs of the Länder. This is called the asymmetric policy. It is being discussed, particularly in the context of labour market policy, but it is actually going wider. Certainly for your subject, development cooperation, we can ensure that resources are pooled and aligned to the needs of each other, so that we can do more in the end. We have already had a lot of debate in the Committee on the Constitution on the state of asymmetric policy and all the different issues. The various ministers have also been called upon to do so on a number of occasions. What did they do next? They have sent a letter to all ministers and state secretaries to ask what they would do on that point. We have heard from the Ministers that you did not reply to that letter. Indeed, many of your colleagues have not done so. Nevertheless, I would like to check with you whether that was correct and whether you do not have any proposals to implement the coalition agreement, including on that point.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic708x.u20	Mr Loones, you have read the coalition agreement correctly. Asymmetric policy can be useful in certain cases to better respond to specific needs and dynamics in Belgium. However, Belgian international solidarity, by definition, focuses on the needs of the people in poverty in our partner countries. It is therefore true that I have not made any proposals to my colleagues, Mrs Verlinden and Mr Clarinval. You will probably understand that the debate on asymmetric policy does not apply to those powers. My powers of metropolitan policy were largely regionalised in Article 6 of the special law on institutional reform. As a result of this reform, the major cities policy is already an asymmetric policy focusing on the regions and enabling them to respond to specific needs and dynamics. The range of action of the federal government remains important for the implementation of a comprehensive policy, both vertically and horizontally. The Federal Government's powers are based on the exceptions to the powers of the Regions and Communities, provided for in the Special Law of 8 August 1980 and in which the residual power of the Federal Government exists. We stress that this is not, therefore, a question of competences competing with the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic708x.u21	Madam Minister, I am somewhat surprised, specifically because you are responsible for a usurping competence, namely the metropolitan policy, but also for development cooperation policy. You yourself note that this policy is a horizontal theme that is reflected in different themes and for which, of course, there is effective cooperation with partner countries. I believe that the resources can be used more efficiently if you cooperate more closely in this area and could fill in this in a different way in cooperation with the Länder. Development cooperation policy could then be more bundled. If you do not answer the question of the ministers, you may not do so after my call. Nevertheless, I would urge you to implement the coalition agreement, including for your domains, and to look at it with a creative look. This would not only benefit the credibility of your government, but also the policy itself of development cooperation, which could be carried together more efficiently and collectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic708x.u22	Debates of the European Parliament 55025498C by Mrs Ponthier is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic708x.u23	Madam President, Minister, in September last year you announced that you would release EUR 2 million for emergency humanitarian aid to the people of Afghanistan. Of course, this aid is more than welcome. Humanitarian organisations are really crying out for help. The care system and the economy, which were already fragile before the Taliban took over, are literally collapsing. On top of that, last summer's severe drought greatly reduced food production. Poverty lurks for so many people around the corner, and the numbers confirm that, too. One in three Afghans, which are 14 million people, are threatened with famine. When there is no money and families have nothing to eat, parents often have to make heartbreaking decisions. In some cases children are withdrawn from school and put to work, in others more extreme cases they are sold for child marriages or other forms of exploitation. You probably had to swallow yourself a few weeks ago when you saw that picture of a mother begging for help on the market while her four children were starving under a blanket. The question is then what to do, and apparently we're in a split. I believe that everyone understands the reaction of the international community, which has withdrawn the emergency financial aid following the takeover of the Taliban, as a means of pressure against the regime. We do not want to support such a regime. We should therefore not hesitate for a second; the international community must continue to exert pressure to enforce human rights and more specific women's rights in Afghanistan. I'd almost say we're protecting them, but let's start by forcing them. Here, however, the shoe is wringing. After all, what is the balance between preventing a humanitarian disaster and those human rights violations on a large scale? That is a very difficult issue in this case. US President Biden is trying to release the $7 billion that was frozen after the Taliban takeover through other funds, in order to counter the humanitarian disaster in Afghanistan, without the money falling into the Taliban's hands. The economic sanctions, which were raised as a means of exerting pressure on the regime, of course affect the most vulnerable people. Madam Secretary, have you received any guarantees that the budget released will directly benefit the Afghan people? If so, which organisations or institutions are responsible for this? Have control mechanisms been put in place to check whether the money reaches the right people and cannot therefore be abused by the Taliban? Have you received any feedback from NGOs and aid organisations using the budget released in Afghanistan? Do they tell you how that works? Does the freed-up budget have any effect? Where is it deployed? Does our government intend to make additional efforts to counter this imminent humanitarian crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic708x.u24	Madam President, Mrs Liekens, I share your concern about the situation in Afghanistan. Due to the political and economic crisis in the country, humanitarian needs are particularly acute. I too am extremely concerned about the situation of girls and women in Afghanistan. Although Afghanistan is not one of the priority areas of Belgian humanitarian aid, given the exceptional needs, I decided to allocate EUR 2 million to the humanitarian flexible fund for Afghanistan, managed by OCHA and UNDP. The funds are made directly available to a large number of partners, international and national NGOs, the Red Cross and the Red Crescent, based on the needs analysis carried out by OCHA. I can assure you that the management of these funds is being carried out and that it is being ensured that humanitarian contributions do not pass through the Taliban. The beneficiary organisations shall be carefully evaluated. The projects will be followed up. Regular reports on progress are also drawn up. In addition, national and international NGOs must comply with comprehensive procedures for assessing their capacity to be eligible for aid. They are also subject to an external audit mechanism. The annual report is expected in the coming month. On this basis, I will be able to give you more information on the first results achieved. Regarding the future, I am working with my administration on planning annual humanitarian funding. Given the poor humanitarian situation in Afghanistan, another allocation will be made in 2022. After all, we must not abandon the people of Afghanistan. I hope to be able to provide you with more information on this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic708x.u25	Madam President, Minister, we know that this is very close to your heart. It's important to hear you say you'll keep following that up. We all know that women's rights and sexual and reproductive health are, after all, the essence of any development cooperation, which follows the rest. I'm glad you're keeping up with that. I will most likely ask you further questions about this in the future.
