ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u2	By letter received on 14 March 2022, the president of the cdH group announced her change of name. By letter received on 14 March 2022, the President of the CdH Group communicated a change in name. As a result, the political group will no longer be called "cdH" but "The Engaged". The group is no longer called 'cdH' but 'Les Engagés'.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u3	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 March 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 March 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u4	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, I have received an e-mail from someone who says that it is finally time. He will be working a full shift today as a port worker to fill his tank in order to be able to work. So he's gonna work to fill his tank to get to work. And what does the government say? The government says it will make an effort and give a discount of 17 euro cents per litre. However, this discount of only 17 euro cents will still be paid blue in order to work. Just as one continues to pay blue to heat his house as the gas bill of an average family will increase by 2,100 euros this year. And what does the government say? The government says it will lower the VAT on gas, but only if the sun shines and the windows open. Only at times when people consume the least, will they make an effort by reducing the VAT on gas. However, this effort will be minimal, namely EUR 75 on an invoice of EUR 3,300. The De Croo government therefore promises 2.2 % discount. Lidl usually gets more discount than this government. So it's too little and too late. Then there are also players, Mr De Croo, who benefit from this whole crisis. That's a bit of a taboo here. However, when one looks at Engie, which will be making overprofits of up to EUR 2.6 billion in the coming years, the question arises as to why not look at it. What does the government say? She is waiting for the European initiative. The government is waiting. You should not wait at all as the European Commission itself said last week that it is possible to exploit the excess profits of EUR 200 billion at European level. There is therefore no need to wait for the European initiative because the light is already on the green. Hence my three questions to the government. Are you prepared to block fuel prices at EUR 1.4 per litre? Are you prepared to permanently reduce VAT on gas and electricity to 6%? Are you prepared to support our bill to rob the profits?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u5	Prime Minister, last week the government came up with an energy deal and you seemed satisfied with it yourself. But it literally and figuratively doesn't warm the citizens. They are very limited and short-term measures. You will temporarily reduce the VAT on gas, when the sun shines, during the summer months. During that period, the government considered energy as a basic requirement. When the colder autumn and winter months arrive, you want to tax it again as a luxury product. The state treasury earns 1 euro in excise duty per litre of fuel at the pump. With your deal you will return 17 euro cents. That is even less than the minimum promised by the Minister of Finance. Darmee, you're laughing at the people. While our citizens are arming themselves, they're riding the government rich. Meanwhile, 84 percent of the Flemings cannot rely on your fuel oil premium and the middle class is totally out of business. However, a study by the KU Leuven last week shows that they are most affected by the increase in energy prices. My questions are very simple, Prime Minister. When will you take structural and sustainable measures, which really help? Will you take to heart tomorrow the explicit recommendation of the International Energy Agency to extend the lifetime of as much nuclear capacity as possible when deciding on the nuclear exit? It would improve not only reliability, but also affordability. I can't wait to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u6	Prime Minister, Minister, when you think about it, it's crazy! It took a year and a half, a crisis of energy and the return of war in Europe for reason to prevail in this government and a decision to extend nuclear power beyond 2025. I know you're in the middle of negotiations, but we've already understood that you're going to pack this reactor extension with renewables, with a lot, a lot of renewables. And that is very good because the future is indeed a major renewable pillar and a major pillar of nuclear energy. That is what will get us out of the gas and fuel oil as quickly as possible. The problem is, it's late. It is late to make this decision. I have two concerns. The first is: is it true that you are considering an extension of only two reactors and for only ten years? Because if that's it, as the CREG would say, I don't see how we're going to go from power plants to gas; and that's a real problem. This extension only makes sense if you do it for 20 years. And 20 years, moreover, it is a calendar that is offered to you on a plateau: 20 years to develop the renewable as much as possible; 20 years to finish isolating our buildings; 20 years to develop the next generation of nuclear power. It's served to you on a set. Take it! My second concern is the cost, tomorrow, to citizens, to consumers, not the decision to extend it, but to take it so late, when Engie, for example, told us that it had to be taken before December 2020. Now we're going to have to run, we're going to have to renovate reactors, we're going to have to buy fuel urgently. All of this is going to have a cost. A billion people tell us, maybe more. It is a responsibility that the seven coalition parties, including the MR, share. This is my second question: how much will your inconsistency and lack of vision cost us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u7	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, you have finally changed your mind. It would have been totally aberrant and irresponsible to leave nuclear power today. You finally decided to extend these two reactors at least. However, we will not dance on the tables or plant strips on your back. It's not a good time. It's a bad time. What is the status of negotiations with ENGIE? Does Plan B really exist and have you worked on it? How much will it cost us? At what price will ENGIE make it possible for us to benefit from the nuclear energy we so much need? In addition, you are announcing a major structural plan. Finally, the government has been installed for two years! This plan seems to be coming. Is it really a plan or an announcement effect? Is there a government agreement? Does this plan have a timing, i.e. a budget, and an agreement on it? Are we finally ready to take structural measures to reduce our dependence on gas and oil? I will recall a number: every day, Europe transfers one billion euros to Russia to finance its war through hydrocarbons and gas as we pride ourselves on delivering only one billion euros in total and for everything to support the Ukrainian army. Every day, there's this addiction. Will we finally get out of this through nuclear power and renewable energy?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u8	Prime Minister, Minister, at last there is the logical decision to reduce the VAT rate for gas and electricity to 6%. As socialists, we were happy to take part in this government, as we did in previous governments. Why do we do that? Because a lot of families are awake from their energy bill today. They are awake from the consumption of their household appliances and from the heating they need in a country like Belgium. That is why it is good that the government intervenes and assists the people in this, just as it did in dealing with the corona crisis and other decisions. It is good that this energy agreement is here now. You will not be surprised that we are very satisfied with this important decision to reduce VAT and that we are pleased that all the majority parties have followed this logic. As far as the opposition is concerned, it will always be too little for the PVDA, but yesterday in the committee I was particularly surprised by the criticism of the N-VA and of the Flemish interest that this premium for maslin would only be for the Walls. More than one Limburger out of three is warming up with masalt today, so it is good for the Limburgers to know that the Antwerp parties do not see them as part of their Flanders. Much more important is the next point. Evaluating is good, but for Vooruit it is already clear what should happen in September. This reduced VAT rate is, in our view, a very logical measure which must be maintained. We are therefore confident that the parties to the government will follow us on this at that time. Today I have just one question for you: what message do you have for those parties who are trying to turn the energy agreement into a political game today?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the energy bill for consumers is still too high. The month-long continuous increase in the energy bill by several hundred euros is heavy for those who have an ordinary income of 1,500 euros, 1,600 euros, 1,800 euros. Therefore, the government has taken further measures, including the reduction of VAT on gas and electricity to 6%. The question was long in the package of Energy Minister Van der Straeten. In addition, there is the extension and extension of the social tariff, which is crucial for the most vulnerable, who are already difficult to live by anyway. It's a matter of life or death for those people. Those decisions were made, which was the brief in the short term. But the work isn't done. Renewable energy is the only way out of dependence on Russian gas, petroleum and uranium. Renewable energy is also good for the people's wallet, because it is the cheapest energy at the moment. In other words, Prime Minister, what is your ambition? To what do your ambitions in the field of renewable energy reach? Do you want to be the vivaldi government of the reformers, who are finally making the transition to accelerating and re-launching renewable energy? Or do we continue to muddle with energy policy, in fact a non-policy, over the last 20 years? The moment of truth has come. Go for the re-launch on renewable energy. Put everything on top of everything. It's good for the people's wallet, it's good for the climate and it's good for our energy independence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u10	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for the third time in a short time, the federal government had to intervene in our energy bill. Now the geopolitical context is largely responsible for this, but it was originally covid. Since the tensions that have arisen, with a war on our continent for the first time in decades, there have been brutal movements on the energy market. For the third time, this government has intervened and opened the portfolio to help families who are struggling. The lower and middle classes, which have the most temporary difficulties, are supported financially, helping all groups for their heating and refueling at the pump. However, this is not a structural solution. Structurally, we must look at other matters in the long term. The current crisis is created by the geopolitical context and our dependence on gas and petroleum products. It is important to make us independent of these products in Europe and Belgium. We expect the government to move forward in the coming days, to agree on a healthy energy mix in our country, which will make us as independent as possible and no longer finance Putin's war. That means we have to look at all the resources we have with an open eye. The nuclear issue will come back on the table; that is what we have to do. In addition, I share the discourse that we need to push extra towards renewable energy. If we want to be independent of gas and petroleum products, the future lies in a piece of basic security, in renewable energy. Additional investments will ensure that our future economy is no longer dependent on gas and petroleum products. Prime Minister, Minister of Energy, I believe that you also need other levels of policy. You need the regions to do it. You also need Europe, where you are in favour of capturing gas prices. What are your initiatives to create a (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u11	Prime Minister, Minister, this Friday is the big day! This is the day when the decision on the extension of nuclear power must be taken, which my group has wanted for many months. The implementation of Plan B seems to be an obvious one, and the continuity of nuclear power too. It now involves launching an administrative and legislative process, and negotiating with Engie Electrabel, who operates nuclear reactors. I would remind you that this extension is part of the October 2020 government agreement, which provides that in the event of insufficient guarantees of the country's security of supply, nuclear power can be extended. Prime Minister, Minister, can you take stock of what is on the table for tomorrow's government? Do you intend to amend or repeal the 2003 Act to ensure the continuity of nuclear power? What process is the government going to follow now to best prepare the Nuclear Extension Plan B? In other words, what are the next steps? Finally, can you clarify the government's energy strategy? In short, what is your view, minister, of our energy needs until 2035? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u12	Prime Minister, Minister, people, single people and families are under great financial pressure. Then there is the fear when they open their mailbox or mailbox to see if the energy bill is in it. As if that is not enough, there are also the prices at the pump. They're gonna put a shovel on top of it. Last week we asked here: government, what are you waiting to do about rising prices? Well, today we have to see that a lot of measures have already been taken. Measures for which we have always worked from CD&V. There are additional measures of more than EUR 1.3 billion to address pump prices and the VAT rate for gas will be reduced until September, with an evaluation at that time, and something is also being done for those who heat with fuel oil. These are important measures in the short term. But we must also look in the long term. We have to give people perspective. Then, of course, it is an energy transition. In doing so, it is important for us that it remains affordable for the people, that it is feasible, and that there is certainty that the lamp will remain on. That is absolutely important. People are also working on how to save energy. This means a reduction in their invoice. In these considerations, the public authorities should not be put on the brakes, but should, on the contrary, give extra energy. Of course, the Länder have an important role to play in this, but we can also do something federally. Therefore CD&V has this week put the proposal on the table to extend the reduced rate of 6% for the demolition and reconstruction of existing homes for 2 years. I come to my specific questions, Prime Minister, Madam Minister. What will you do to respond to people's concerns, including in the long term?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u13	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, first of all, I would like to thank the government for the measures that have been taken, from the reduction of VAT to the reduction of excise duties, through the oil cheque or the extension of the social tariff. It was urgent to act. You did, but we can ask ourselves whether the measures will be sufficient. For my part, I think that it will still be necessary to respond to the terrible situations experienced by some households. Even yesterday, I was told a testimony of someone who preferred to sleep in their workplace to save a lot of fuel. This situation is exceptional and therefore requires exceptional measures. It is therefore important to develop permanent monitoring to assess the effectiveness of the measures. We cannot talk about the price of energy without obviously addressing the extension of nuclear power. Our position has not changed. The exit of nuclear power can only take place under two conditions: ensuring security of supply and maintaining the price of energy under control. So this energy transition must be sustainable, yes! It must be sustainable, yes, of course, but for the benefit of everyone, that is, a transition to the benefit of all. My three questions are as follows. First of all, can you agree on the setting up of this monitoring to assess the situation of our citizens with regard to the cost of energy? What about the extension of the two nuclear reactors and especially the contacts with Engie for negotiation and CRM (Capacity Remuneration Mechanism) in order to secure our supply? How are you going to achieve a sustainable energy transition for households? I am saying well, Prime Minister, Minister, for all households.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u14	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, last Monday, this government actually decided on measures to respond to the short-term social emergency in relation to rising energy prices. From tomorrow, discussions will begin on structural measures to respond to our energy dependence in a war context that some have recalled here. Yes, today, if we put renewable energies aside for a moment, Belgium is totally dependent on foreign energy policy, particularly Russia: 30% of oil, 24% of uranium for our nuclear reactors and 7% of gas used in Belgium come from Russia. We want to get out of this dependency. This means investing heavily in renewable energies (sun, wind, geothermal, biomass) because it belongs to us. Investing in renewable energy is, in our view, the best anti-Poutine weapon. What does that mean in practice? It is investing in the production capacity of renewable energies. I am of course thinking of the capabilities of offshore but also onshore wind turbines, whether in the facilitation of permits, in the spaces available for this. I am thinking of photovoltaics; we must encourage our citizens to place photovoltaic panels. I'm also thinking about geothermal projects. The second package is to invest in energy that we are not going to consume. It is necessary to isolate the buildings, to renovate our infrastructure and to have a modal shift, a really fundamental point. Today, I would like to take a second to think of all our fellow citizens who have no choice but to move by car, to go to the pump, who see their bill explode, who may not be able to close the end of the month and who feel a negative impact on their purchasing power. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u15	Prime Minister, you have come out with an energy agreement. There will be a VAT reduction on gas in the summer, accounting for less than 90 euros. Fuel oil consumers get twice as much with 200 euros. There will also be a reduction in excise duties on fuels. In other words, that is too late, too little and not balanced, which is normal after a common trade within the government that no one can explain. The core exit was not discussed. That is what you wanted to decide tomorrow, but in the meantime, Minister Van der Straeten has put on the table a demand package of no less than EUR 8 billion as a condition or in return to examine - and I am sure you will be aware - whether two nuclear power stations can remain open for 10 years longer. Prime Minister, do you still think that is serious? From day one, your government has put forward an emergency plan to keep the nuclear power stations open. You personally put your hand in the fire for this to happen. More than 500 days later, your Energy Minister says she's going to study it now, but only if the government, as a kind of green dream factory with endlessly deep pockets, is going to pay and fulfill her dreams. Prime Minister, we must decide tomorrow. My question is therefore whether you will keep your promise. Are you going to cut that knot? Will you draw the entire file to you for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u16	Madam President, we have spoken on several occasions about the energy bill, since the start of the covid crisis. The government has taken measures from the start of the covid crisis. For those most affected by this, when it was mainly about people with limited income, a solution was found in a broad social tariff. In the meantime, we are on the third package and all the measures together are worth EUR 3 billion. These measures are necessary and, in comparison with, for example, the Netherlands and France, they are more rapid and they are broader. In the Netherlands, the reduction of prices at the pump starts on 1 April, with us she will enter next weekend. In the Netherlands we are talking about a reduction of 15 cents, we are talking about a reduction of 17,5 cents. So please do not tell us that the government is not taking measures similar to those in other countries. However, that does not mean that that is the end of the story. No one in the government has said that these measures will solve the problem in a structural way, not at all. Firstly, we said very clearly that we will evaluate the measures taken in September. I will be very clear: if, in September, we remain confronted with extremely high prices, we will not decide to repeal the measures and to raise tariffs at a very difficult time. It is normal, in any case, to carry out an evaluation, hoping that this cruel war in Ukraine will be over. These are measures that should help people, which should enable us to prevent that increase in the invoice. The underlying problem is the current situation in which European energy markets are completely separate from reality. There are prices that are actually not in line with reality today. There is no shortage today and yet there are prices that actually assume that there is a scarcity. We will solve this by working with other countries. Over the last few weeks, I have made a great deal of efforts to convince my European colleagues of a single-buyer system in which Europeans buy together. Prices are independent of reality and ceilings are then used to reduce prices. These measures will be discussed at the European Council next week. These are measures that address the core of the problem, not just tax cuts that are trying to provide a solution, but basic solutions for a market that is not functioning today. Our country's energy strategy will be on the government's table tomorrow, on the basis of reports received from yesterday, reports we received from Elijah, for example, on the auction and to which projects are feasible, have the right permits. There are other reports, such as a report that looks at the geopolitical dimension of our energy policy. On the basis of the facts and analysis, this government will take a decision that is adapted to the situation we are in today. The world has changed. The world has changed fundamentally for a few months. All European countries review their energy strategy. In fact, we were already making that exercise. But the mistake would be to limit our discussions to the continuation of certain nuclear activities. Yes, it's a decision to make, but it's part of a more global scheme. If we really want to become more independent from abroad, especially from countries that are unstable and with which we have problems, and if we also want to become more independent from fluctuations in fossil fuel prices, then there is only one form of energy that is cheaper year after year, namely renewable energy. Renewable energy is becoming cheaper because technology is moving forward. In this technology, our country can play a very important role. This is not just a discussion about the next ten years, it is a discussion about choices that we are making today and which are also important for 2040 and 2050. I hope you respect the fact that this broad strategy is part of the exercise. This is not only a decision for the coming years, it is also a decision that should lead to lower prices, more independence, more innovation and more technological development.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, in recent weeks and months we have experienced the biggest energy crisis ever in Europe and in our country. The war in Ukraine is painfully exposing the harsh reality of our country's dependence on foreign energy. More than 90% of our energy is imported from abroad, mainly oil, gas and uranium. The figures are significant, i.e. 30% of oil, 25% of uranium and up to 6% of gas. As a result, we are paying a high price today for this dependence, both through the energy bill and at the pump. Over the last six months, this government has released EUR 3 billion for necessary measures to dampen the energy bill and make prices at the pump affordable. For a million families we provide an average discount of more than 2,200 euros per year, for whom the social rate is available, and for everyone there is a reduction of an average of 300 euros per year. The EUR 3 billion is necessary, but we have to admit that, in structural terms, it does not solve anything. The EUR 3 billion has not reduced our dependence on Putin, nor has it reduced our consumption of fossil energy. That 3 billion also does not result in structurally lower prices. That is why we have a consistent and comprehensive policy. That is why, at European level, we are calling for a price cap. It goes beyond the argument, because we convince our colleagues and put proposals on the table that are being worked out in concrete terms, in particular the single buyer's proposal combined with a price cap. For the same reason, in order to be able to work structurally, I also proposed speeding up the energy transition in the short term, in order to increase our independence. It is, in fact, through a structural commitment to renewable energy and energy saving that we will also reduce energy bills structurally. Then we do something that hurts Putin. Moreover, investment in renewable energy is investment in our own country, in our economy and in our families. That's crucial. I would also like to stress that, in order to speed up the green energy transition, we must above all ensure that the large majority can pay for it. That's where the shoe is pinching today. Families should now be sitting on their savings instead of using it to invest in solar panels and insulation, things that are still earned back in a few years. This is therefore an important task for all the governments of the country. It's a shared responsibility. Secondly, security of supply is also on the government table. The war on the European continent has changed the world. Energy is a matter of national security. The war in Ukraine forces all European countries today to review their energy strategy, which has an impact on our country's imports and exports. However, it is not only the war in Ukraine that has a major impact today that also affects situations in our neighbouring countries. In France, a very large capacity of nuclear energy is not available today. That is a bit of a nuclear horror moment, as we experienced in the winter of 2018. There's a record number of nuclear power plants malfunctioning. That too has an impact on our country. These elements have an impact on our country. It makes sense that we have an open look when it comes to understanding what these two gigawatts of nuclear energy can mean for this country. We will not sign a blank cheque at ENGIE. We want clear guarantees of security, affordability and security of supply. Some of you have asked whether negotiations with ENGIE are ongoing. If we have contacts and exchanges with that group about the extension of 2 gigawatts, there is not yet a negotiating mandate. This issue is also on the table for tomorrow's discussions. Tomorrow we will take a decision on the basis of facts, based on studies, based on the current geopolitical context. We will make the most secure decision for our country, for our families and for our economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u18	Mr Prime Minister, you say interesting things: the market is not working, the market is completely irrational, the market has become hysterical and prices do not correspond to the real situation. That is true, because today we are talking about monopoly, monopoly prices, speculation and war profiteers. It's all part of the price chain. With oil, for example, phenomenal profits are being made today, and that is what determines prices. ExxonMobil made 23 billion dollars last year, BP 14 billion dollars, Shell 21 billion dollars. Shell's CEO got a $6.1 million paycheck last week. If we cannot control the market, we may have to ask the question of controlling energy supply at European level. That will also be a condition for an energy transition (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u19	Prime Minister, your energy deal is half-hearted, because you leave people in the cold. You leave them in uncertainty about the coming winter, when all the measures will be over. Take structural measures, ensure a much lower maximum price at the pump for diesel and petrol, ensure a permanent reduction of VAT on gas and electricity, because heating is really not a luxury. Tell your Green coalition partners that we do not want an energy mix without reliable nuclear energy and that we do not want a society full of carless Sundays, shower-free Saturdays, electricity-free Fridays and heating-free Thursdays. Vivaldiless, on the other hand, would be much better.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u20	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. I know that it is part of the "com plan" to say that the world has changed for three weeks, as if before, it was already a good idea to get out of nuclear power, which I do not believe, as if before Mr Putin was not already a dictator sitting on a billion euros received daily for hydrocarbons and gas and as if the gas was not already before a danger to the climate! Let's move on! What worries me most is the end of the Minister of Energy's reply saying that there was not yet a negotiating mandate with Engie. There are no negotiations with Engie yet and perhaps tomorrow the government will sign a negotiating mandate with Engie. In other words, tomorrow there will still be no clear decision on whether or not to extend the power plants of two nuclear reactors! We'll go on with "maybe," "if," "we'll see." This is still beginning to become the trademark of the Vivaldi government in this area. I don't know how long this can last.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u21	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. It is true, it is the lack of foresight, it is the ideological postures that put us in an extremely difficult and complicated situation today. You still don't have a clear and clear discussion with Engie about our ability to extend these reactors. We're going to have to dance like Engie whistles and I deeply regret it! Yes, we need structural solutions more than ever, Prime Minister, but then we have to stop making decisions for a few months, just for the summer! We know that the price of gas and oil will be very high for several years. These are decisions that need to be made over several years and not just over a few months. You know as much as I do, especially that some of these decisions are a trompe l'oeil. You say you're getting three billion out of your pocket, but you know that you're putting one part of it back into the other through VAT and excise duties. The accounts must be correct, which they are not today!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u22	Mrs Pas, you speak of uncertainty. For me, the Prime Minister's answer was very clear. VAT will not increase if invoices are high in September. That seems very clear to me. It is certainly something that we will continue to advocate. My colleague from the PVDA, if you are talking about energy measures, please be correct. One million families in this country are protected by the social tariff. You don't say anything about that. And with the new measures, there is always something. First the question was where VAT was, then the question followed where the gas was, now the remark is that it is only temporary. I am really curious to hear what you are going to say in September, because your arguments are gradually getting dried up, that is quite clear. Prime Minister, Minister, I look forward with you to the moment in September. You certainly know how we look at the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u23	Colleagues, almost all parties are supporting the energy transition here today. This means that there is support for this, which the government can and should work with. If we spend EUR 3 billion on reducing energy bills, which was absolutely necessary, we can also invest in renewable energy, in structural solutions. Prime Minister, this is not about a bit of renewable energy. I heard you. We're going to hold you to your commitment. It's not about a little renewable energy, it's about a Marshall Plan against fossil fuels. That's geopolitically wise. That's green and good for the climate. That's financially advantageous.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u24	Madam President, the duty of the opposition is tooppose. Of course, they always hear fake solutions. Long-term extra money spent on buying products that one tries to get rid of is not a solution to this huge crisis that has a major impact on people's energy bill. Now we have to intervene in energy bills for gas and oil products, but in the long term it only finances Putin's war. If the Flemish Interest is in favour of doing so more often, I say that we should not do so. However, we need a sensible energy mix for the future, with an open view. Our group is counting on a speedy decision on this matter. We cannot ignore the fact that nuclear energy is still playing a role, but it is combined with an ambitious renewable energy plan, the share of which can grow. By 2025, of course, this renewable energy plan will not be ready to supply us completely with green electricity. Prime Minister, Minister, I wish you a lot of decision-making courage in the coming days and we are counting on a healthy energy mix to provide certainty in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u25	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. Time is running out if we want to implement Plan B, that is to say, the extension of two or more reactors beyond 2025, without interruption. This is essential if we are to guarantee our security of supply and avoid blackouts that would affect both individuals and businesses in the coming years. The construction of gas-fired power stations seems to be increasingly difficult, even if only for the supply of raw materials for their construction. Finally, it is essential to develop energy independence from an international perspective, while respecting our climate and environmental commitments. I appeal to everyone's common sense!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u26	Mr Prime Minister, Madam Minister, thank you for the answers. It is an open door kicking in. The courage of the people falls when they see the prices. It is therefore important that these measures be implemented in the short term, amounting to EUR 3 billion and with evaluation in September. That's important, too. The next thing that needs to be addressed is the long-term perspective for people. It's good to hear you're doing that. There are very important challenges on the table, but we are confident that this will be done. As far as we are concerned, there is the continuation of the reduced rate for demolition and reconstruction, and that cannot be lacking, because it is good for the climate, for the construction sector and for families.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u27	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. I will specify four elements. First, helping workers was an emergency. We've moved forward and it's a good thing. However, I would like to recall the need for monitoring because for us there is no taboo as to the extension or intensification of measures. Secondly, energy is an essential asset that must remain accessible to all households. As a result, the transition will have to be accessible because for us socialists, the transition will be social or not. Thirdly, the measures must benefit all citizens of the tenant and the middle class. Fourthly, penalizing workers by imposing an inadequate transition to their means will, for us, be unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u28	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you. It seems important to me to recall the course of our energy independence and our climate goals: 100% renewable energy in 2050. It is true that at the end of 2035 there are different possible energy mixes and an open mind in relation to the path to be taken over the next ten years. But as far as we are concerned – and I am replying to some colleagues – this will be done without a blank check with the operator ENGIE. Let us be clear, the federal state and the government also have rights to assert. Then, Prime Minister, it was you who said it in October 2020 at the time of the government's constitution: it is the greenest government in this country's history. It is now and together that we must demonstrate this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u29	Mr Prime Minister, as Mr Lachaert, who just snuck out, said, there is a division of labour in this country. This means that we must now point out to you that you must take action, that you must take decisions and that you must not put them off the rails. And that's exactly what's gonna happen if you don't order the file to be worked out until tomorrow. If you have understood the mission of becoming as independent of fossil energy from abroad as possible, you should not be satisfied with keeping two nuclear power plants open for ten years. Then you must go for 20 years. Then you need to examine which power stations can still be kept open so that we can be resilient in the future. But I have the impression that you're back in a green carcan today, which you can't get out of.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u30	Prime Minister, your crisis management is causing chaos through the confused communication of your ministers, through an ill-thought-out choice of a living wage statute, but also, above all, through a lack of foresight on the heels of very vulnerable people and a population that is so eager to help. Let me give you an example. The hashtag Square is beautiful in itself, but you should immediately have the reflex that this could also attract people with bad intentions, right away and not just now, now that 8,000 people have already spread across our country without protection. Today, Minister Verlinden continues to tell local police areas that there should be no screening of the reception sites used there. How can you allow this for two weeks, which means that some of the Ukrainian women and children, after the madness they have already experienced, are now facing exploitation, prostitution and child abuse? Have you heard the stories of the men who charge children with vans, where no one knows exactly where they're going? How can you not foresee such a thing if you do not live in Lalaland? I thought you were supposed to do that right away. That is crisis management: a well-thought-out policy and foresight. I miss that here. I also miss a well-thought-out policy when it comes to choosing the living wage. No OCMW knows how to interpret that. Either they drive people with a living wage into a housing market where they have to go home milkers anyway, because that's the only thing that's still free. Either one creates a situation where no OCMW knows what is to be withheld for the housing of the living wage. One can choose between discrimination with other wage-earners or ambiguity in the legislation. Mr Van Quickenborne said this morning that there is no ambiguity. Mrs. Lalieux says there is. Prime Minister, when do you come up with a policy of crisis that is thoughtful, clear and quick?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u31	Madam President, Prime Minister, the day after Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Secretary of State Mahdi said: "We must and will ensure that Ukrainians from the chaos in their country do not end up in chaos here in Europe." At present, however, we are seeing complete chaos here in Belgium. At the registration centre for Ukrainian refugees at the Heysel, refugees must join for a whole day, women with children and also elderly, without any doubt on a registration at the registration centre that day. People stand there all day and often can't even go to the bathroom, because you have only provided a handful of Dixitoilets for two thousand accompanying Ukrainian refugees. For food, they depend on volunteers, who often do not even get to the Ukrainian refugees. The screening of refugees and asylum seekers for fraud is also a total chaos. The debate on living wages also shows the total chaos. The position of the Flemish Interest is very clear: give those people bed, bath and bread, give them safety, but do not give them a living wage, because that is simply priceless. However, the government's position is somewhat less clear. Secretary of State Mahdi says that free care will not be combined with a full living wage, but Prime Minister De Croo and Meyrem Almaci say that it has already been decided to award the living wage. Mrs De Block and Tim Vandenput, like the Prime Minister, both members of Open Vld, are opposed to the living wage because of the suction effect. Minister Van Quickenborne, also member of Open Vld, has a third point of view, because he says it is already settled. The Minister responsible, Mrs Lalieux, says that it is still being discussed and that she will shortly be drafting a proposal, which means that it is not yet settled. What is it, anyway? Finally, clarify the living wage for the municipalities and those refugees, and stop the chaos. Also clarify the screening of both refugees and recipients, so that fraudsters are removed. Also put an end to the chaos with degrading circumstances on the Heysel.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u32	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister and Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, imagine that you are fleeing the war and, together with your crying child, crossing the border, along with hundreds of thousands of others. Your last things are in your backpack. You didn't eat and you could barely sleep. In the middle of that total chaos, someone's offering you a way out of this mess. Then you do not say no; none of us do. This is what is happening now in Poland, Hungary and Romania. Vulnerable Ukrainians think they'll arrive in the free west, but end up behind closed doors. This is also happening in Belgium. Meanwhile, there are reports of the exploitation of Ukrainian women in a butchery and testimonies of shelter in exchange for sex and perhaps it is just the tip of the iceberg. It's obvious to us then. We need a strong government that gets everything on the map, that can fight against trafficking in human beings. We are talking about vulnerable people, who we need to protect and who we need to provide security. That is why I asked you yesterday for increased preparedness and vigilance for all Belgian services in contact with Ukrainian refugees. I also asked you last week for a clear directive for cities and municipalities. You were still waiting for new signs of exploitation; then you would change your policy. There are signals now. Take care now of increased vigilance and also of the clear directive for cities and municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u33	Lady and gentlemen ministers, we have a NATO army that costs more than EUR 1,000 billion, but does not have the guts to set up a no-fly zone. That's why the war criminal from Russia can bomb materials and hospitals and keep killing people. We must console ourselves and certainly ease our consciences with the reception of the refugees. I'm asking this question as mayor, not as a representative of the people. By the way, there are quite a few mayors in this room. We are always on the front line to deal with the problems, but we are always the last to take decisions. What I see happening, as with the corona epidemic, is that there's some slight chaos. I fully understand the need to improvise in such situations. Temporary protection is not easy and will be supported by the municipalities and so on. What I see at the moment, however, is that there are four to five votes. There is once again a wonderful political profiling, not only of the different governments but also of the political parties. Now take the question of living wage. I hear from my colleagues in the N-VA that it would be fair compensation. That's a piece of work. When giving people a living wage, we must beware of discrimination. What happens to our own people who are disadvantaged compared to them, especially when a free property is granted? I hear from Open VLD that it was going to be about pocket money. We were gonna give people pocket money until they had a place to live. We talk about installation premiums, about heating premiums and about all kinds of conditions. The congregations stand by, look at it and wait for the confusion that comes. I'll make you a proposal. Set up a task force like you might have to for the corona epidemic, but make sure it works better. Speak with one voice, both for the victims and for the municipalities that have to solve it all.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u34	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, Secretary of State, it has been only three weeks since the war broke out in Ukraine, and yet! Like you, the MR is at the side of the Ukrainian people. Belgium undertook - it was a moral duty - to help those fleeing the war. It carries out this task at all levels of power. The Belgians, our fellow citizens, are united and united. From a practical point of view, I know that you are making every effort in record time to ensure that Ukrainians can be welcomed in the best possible conditions. Managing their arrival, however, raises some questions. First of all, with regard to the crisis management structure, there are many skills and different levels of power involved. Can you give us some details about this management? How will it be organised to improve consultation and effectiveness? What will be the social rights of Ukrainians who have come to us? Who's going to fund them? Then, how do you plan to prevent the risk of sexual and economic exploitation? I raised the issue last week and I know that you are paying attention to it. Federal authorities will do prevention, but I would like to know what measures are being considered and will be put in place. Will a screening of the hosts be carried out by the police? Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the quality of the reception. Indeed, everyone has the right to decent housing. What are the procedures in this regard? What follow-up will be provided to ensure that Ukrainians are housed with us properly?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u35	Prime Minister, Minister, Secretary of State, yesterday the 10,000th Ukrainian refugee was registered in our country. In the meantime, the Regions and local authorities are looking for ways in which they can take care of these people in the best possible way. The federal government has asked the regions to provide 30 000 places by the end of this month. Flanders promises 6,000 by the end of the week and 18,000 by the end of the month. Emergency villages are being considered. However, it is now clear that without the action PlekVrij it would not have been possible. In the meantime, 40,000 places have been registered, including 35,000 for ordinary traditional families. That's good. That's a great solution. But it can't be a structural solution. We must ensure that we get sufficient collective reception places as soon as possible. If people are taken into care in host families, it is important that this is done as safely as possible. That is why I am pleased that the Minister and the Secretary of State are working on a screening procedure to find out who can qualify as a host family. But I'm worried too. I am concerned about the uncontrolled Facebook groups where shelters are offered. Most of them will probably be very well-intentioned, but I absolutely want to prevent people fleeing from exploitation or abuse. That is why I have a few specific questions. Mr. Secretary of State, are you on schedule? Are you confident that the Regions will work properly and that we will get to the intended number of places? To the three members of the government I ask: how will you ensure that those Facebook pages (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u36	Secretary of State, Saturday, I was in Bordet. First of all, I saw the admirable solidarity of all our fellow citizens – which I expected. I have also seen the mobilization of Fedasil's workers, faces I know so much. That too, I expected. However, sharp with the dignity of the men, women and children patiently waiting in heavy silence, the disorganization was impressive. Mr Secretary of State, it is clear that all our citizens can be mobilised and that the municipalities can be asked to respond in these exceptional circumstances. However, in the face of such terror and conflict, humanitarian aid must be developed to the height of that horror. To do so, it is necessary to coordinate and develop a public reception with public means. This responsibility lies not with the municipalities or the citizens, but with you. Mr Secretary of State, I believe that you are doubly responsible: for the hospitable, who need information and support, but also for the refugees who need a dignified reception and who need to be protected from the economic and sexual predators who roam around them. I would like to ask you three questions, Secretary of State. First of all, how are you going to organise effective decentralization and decent public and human reception? Then, what are you going to do to meet the expectations of the communes, who need support in order to fulfil the mission you have entrusted to them? Finally, what initiatives are you going to take to ensure that women and children are not victims of predators and that reception does not turn into human trafficking tomorrow? These questions, I'm sending them to you, because it's your responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u37	Prime Minister, Minister, Secretary of State, the situation in Ukraine is well known. 3 million people are on the run. 200,000 of them can be expected here in Belgium. Modern Europe, Belgium and its Länder face enormous challenges. One thing is very important to our party: every Ukrainian refugee here will be helped and received with dignity, complete and correct. However, as a Parliament, we cannot be blind to reality. That reality is that the war can last months, maybe even years. That is why, for us, a living wage of sometimes more than 1,000 euros is not realistic. This will make public finances dark red. We do advocate a different approach in the field with tailor-made OCMWs that will provide each refugee with his or her needs and needs. Legally, the equivalent living wage is not regulated and this leads to uncertainty and uncertainty in the field at the OMCWs. Nor can it be the intention that OCMWs in Ostend, in Hoeilaart or with you in Brakel apply other standards. This will lead to unequal situations for refugees. I have three questions about this. In your opinion, Prime Minister, is it a good idea to have the OCMW's tailor-made work done on the ground? Are actions already being taken to create uniformity, so that the OCMWs can do the same? Are the Länder sufficiently aware of their responsibilities in the organisation of collective care?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u38	Madam President, I will answer the questions together with my colleagues Verlinden and Mahdi. Mrs van Peel and Mr Segers, your concern about the vulnerability of refugees is quite right. Studies show that around 80% of female refugees are ever exposed to sexual violence or harassment. We are very aware of this and we have taken this into account from the start of the crisis. This has now been translated into a task force in which the Centre Against Trafficking in Human Beings, the Federal Office and Justice work very closely together to minimise the risk. Mr Van Langenhove, you are always talking about fraud and the so many fraudsters that would slip through our registration system. I visited our registration centre in the Heysel together with Mr Mahdi. I've only seen people in distress there. I have seen a lot of young mothers with children in particular need. I have also seen staff from Fedasil and from other organisations that are very systematically guarding against any form of fraud. Everyone is interviewed by Ukrainian interpreters, who can perfectly verify whether someone is from Ukraine, has escaped the terror there and needs effective help. When I spoke to people we're trying to help, I got two questions: can my children go to school and from when can I start working. That's what I heard there. Instead of constantly broadening the stories you read on social media, I would like to suggest you go on the spot. I'd be happy to take you there. Get on the ground, see how we organize things and talk to the people we're talking about. You will see that this is not about fraudsters, but about people who are in trouble and who we are trying to help. I understand the debate on living wages, because we are indeed making financial resources available. It is also about people who are in very great distress, who have to make sure that their children go to school and who have to find a way to organize their lives. I think it is absolutely necessary for us to use customisation for this. Customization of living wages is not new. Anyone who is active at the local level knows that an OCMW conducts research into the resources available to the person for the award of a living wage. We know that this will be very limited. The OMCW also conducts research into needs. Then it makes sense to me that an OCMW will deal with someone who can live with family in a different way than someone with three children without connections. Those are two very different situations. It is therefore logical for an OCMW to deal with this in a different way. That's not new. Our OCMWs are used to taking those differences into account. Allowing customisation therefore seems absolutely logical to me. I also think that we should support our OMCWs and give guidelines on how to organise, because not everyone has the same experience. Our country is facing a huge challenge and everyone is doing what they can. Hundreds of people work almost day and night. We know that, in a crisis, everything isn't always perfect. There were problems in Bordet at the beginning, but today I think it is organised in a very humane way at Heysel. In these difficult moments, we work together. I have had a second meeting with the Ministers-Presidents and this will now be done every week. We all know very well what our responsibilities are. There are federal responsibilities. The federated entities, on the other hand, are doing an incredible job of accommodation to find maximum housing. They focus on the organization of care, the schooling of children, etc. Our local authorities are also making a great deal of effort and are sometimes confronted with issues with which they have had little experience so far. We will succeed in helping those who need help. We will succeed in this by working together. At difficult times we must not point our finger at each other, but we must work together and ensure that we do the best we can. With everyone I've been in touch with, I feel the willingness to do the maximum. For example, we offer a human response to the incredible horror that we see every day in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this crisis of reception in the wake of the war presents us with unprecedented challenges. There are so many people on the run, and it is our job to do so, and we should not doubt it for a second to take them under the best possible conditions. Despite the difficulties, our country has shown itself on its best side today. There are many people who have opened their hearts and opened their homes to receive refugees. Today there are more than 11,000 families who have indicated that they can offer one or more shelters at home. You may know that it is the Lander's responsibility to ensure the quality and safety of these places. From my competence for general security, I immediately brought together the actors concerned to examine what tools we have to ensure that this is done as safely as possible. You then ask for a screening procedure to do so in a good way. Mrs. Van Peel, you said you still can't answer the police. I must say that in other cases you attach incredibly much importance to privacy. We have received an opinion from the Supervisory Body on the Police Information and they have informed us that systematic prior checking of these families is not possible for privacy reasons. That is a fact that we must bear in mind. However, we have taken a number of other preventive and reactive measures to ensure that this can be done in safe conditions. The first measure is to ensure that everyone involved in these reception processes is aware of that phenomenon, of that problem and is vigilant. That is a very important point of attention. I also call for this phenomenon to be highlighted by Ukrainian refugees when they register at the registration centre. We are doing this by asking the refugees to register only for reception points of the official circuit and not to resort to initiatives that cannot bear the light of day. We ask the Ukrainian refugees to appeal to the places that governments or individuals offer so that we can detect any malicious practices as soon as possible. A third question we asked the local authorities. As you know, the families of the host countries fill out a form of a candidate's application file to make their offer for reception. I will ask that an extract from the criminal record be added to this for all adult members of the care family, so that we can follow up on this. At the time when there would be a problem, for example because someone has been convicted of a crime against persons, it goes without saying that these places do not end up in the housing tool or on the host family list, thus avoiding further disaster. In addition, the municipal authorities have designated a municipal coordinator for this crisis. At the time when there is a match between the demand of Ukrainian refugees and the supply of care families, the municipal coordinator will contact the care family. We ask to be alert to the way the shelter can happen. In the event of the slightest doubt or suspicion that the reception cannot take place in the right circumstances, a police report may be made and will be followed up. Finally, the police can and will carry out a residence check when matching and placement have taken place, as is the case with other housing. In this way there will be a check on the quality and safety of reception. All these instruments ensure that we can guarantee maximum security today in order to exclude malicious practices. As I said, I brought the actors together from last week. Today, or at the latest tomorrow, we send a circular to the local authorities and the chiefs of the local police zones, to clarify and visualize all the different instruments of the approach, so that everyone knows what to do. When we look at the solidarity action today, 12-12, we see only very big hearts and very open arms. Let's keep it that way. I also insist on psychosocial counseling. The corona crisis has taught us that mental well-being is very important. We must also put this at the forefront here and put it as a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, last week I was here, too, and then I said there were two million people on the run after two weeks of war. Today we are a week later and we are not dealing with two but with three million refugees. So we face a huge challenge, where we do not have the luxury of looking at how many hours or days we perform. The people who do that most of all today are the people in the registration center on the Heysel. From 8 a.m. until often 10 p.m., there are 2,000 daily recordings. More than 11,000 people have already been registered at the Heysel thanks to the people who work for the Red Cross, Fedasil, the Office of Foreigners, all our services are present and work day and night. As a first step, they are the ones to be thanked for the colossal work that is being done. In addition to the work that takes place in the registration centre, where hours and days should not be counted, we must act at all possible levels. We need to work together and make sure that we have sufficient capacity effectively. Fortunately, we started the action hashtag PlakVrij. If we hadn't organized that action two weeks ago, hundreds of people were sleeping on the streets right now. Fortunately, a lot of local authorities have started working on this and have done what they need to do. This must ensure that people do not organise themselves today through all kinds of Facebook groups to try to organise care themselves. It was indeed necessary to inform refugees well. It is important to know that 70% of them arrive at the registration centre saying they do not need reception; they already have a solution. But what exactly is the situation? That is why we distribute brochures, we inform. We are trying to tell refugees that, if they are welcomed somewhere, they must remain cautious and ensure that this reception is organized by the government and not by individuals who have embarked on Facebook campaigns. Indeed, even if this is often a good intention, control of the government must be able to be exercised. The action SpotFree was good, but the most important thing at the moment remains that we provide sufficient collective places. I know all too well what a huge challenge that means for our regions. After all, the housing market is saturated. The challenge of finding 200,000 places in the short term, 120,000 in Flanders and 80,000 in Brussels and Wallonia, is no less. However, the challenge of fleeing bombs in Kiev, Lviv or Odessa is even greater. So it is our job to provide shelters, and I am very pleased that the regions are working on this. Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia must ensure that there are sufficient collective reception places. That task awaits us. Citizens expect us to work together. The young visitors here at the public gallery and the Ukrainians outside the registration center, everyone looks at us and expects us to fulfil our moral duty to properly register and properly take care of Ukrainians. Let us therefore work together and see how we can make the best of this, by taking people in. That's our job, not to see what another person does, but to see how we get through this together. All Ukrainians who present themselves, women and children, must be able to cope in the right conditions. That task awaits us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u41	Mrs. Verlinden, you scared me for a moment about my sensitivity to privacy. Perhaps you're talking about the corona period, where I was indeed sensitive to counting the pizza boxes at the door and they went to check if Jeanne and Jefke went to the bathroom when they were in the backyard. I've never had that sensitivity to privacy when it comes to criminal records, people who abuse children, people who exploit women and things like that. You can come here today and tell us that in the meantime you are aware by the press and by Ben Segers, who was awake from the beginning, that the hashtag Plakvrij attracts the wrong people. Hallelujah that you realized this after 8,000 people were posted, but you had thought about it in advance before you threw it on Twitter, Mr Mahdi. If it's not that easy, Mrs. Verlinden, do your best and make it easy. We've done the same under terror.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u42	If a matter becomes clear today, it is that asylum policy in this country has completely failed. At the time of the outbreak of war in Europe, we have to note that the 30,000 expensive shelters in this country are all full of non-Europeans. You may not want to hear it, but underneath there are a lot of fraudsters and even violent ones. The last two days there have been riots in the asylum centre of Poelkapelle. There a hundred Afghans and Palestinians went on each other's fists, even with forbidden weapons. If the wounded were then taken to the hospital, at the expense of the Fleming, they fought even further in the hospital in the emergency service. Do you think it is normal that Flemings who are no longer able to pay their energy bill should pay for the bill for the reception of those fraudsters and violent people? Do you think it is normal for Ukrainians to stay in the cold because we fill our shelters with fraudsters and violent people? I don't think that's normal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u43	Prime Minister, Secretary of State, Minister, we are very pleased with the clarity that will be given to cities and municipalities. That clarity will be absolutely necessary in order to provide protection and security for Ukrainian refugees. So that's great news. I would ask that you do not try to reinvent the wheel again, but that you look at the Ghent model, from which many other cities and municipalities can draw inspiration. I would also ask you to pay particular attention to minors who can be registered with the municipalities. I would like to be sure that your instructions include that there will always be contact with the Voogdijk Service so that the placement in the foster care can take place and so that further supervision can be carried out by that service. That's how we'll all work together. After all, it will be together, or it will not be. Good luck with that!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u44	Mr Prime Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Madam Minister, I heard a very emotional answer here, but I am asking for a rational answer. I'm not asking for amalgam. I just heard you speak, and I heard that amalgam again. In every municipality there is a shortage of housing, especially for the people at the bottom of society. In every municipality there is demand for living wages. This will eventually lead to a discrepancy between the people we receive and those who are already victims of it, our own community. That is why I am calling for clear and clear measures. I hear you say, Mr Secretary of State: they go to the OCMW, and the OCMW has to choose. No, it's not. You have to decide who gets a living wage and who doesn't get a living wage. We mayors are dealing with the problem of education. There's a shortage of teachers. Do we get extra teachers for that? Do the people looking for a house get an installation premium, yes or no? Those are the questions. That's what it's about. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u45	Prime Minister, Minister, Secretary of State, thank you. I hear you're working to address the various concerns. I realize, of course, that this is happening in record time. Three weeks with huge problems to solve, with human rights at the centre of attention. That we must integrate and hear. I know you're doing the best you can. I have noted that screening is not possible. The mayor who has a great responsibility, even if he does not have an obligation of result, I wonder how far his responsibility would be involved if a problem were to arise in a family, and what protection would it be, taking into account all the efforts that will be made with great imagination? You have been able to count on us in another crisis; we will still be there tomorrow for this one and for a good time. Let us therefore work together, as is required!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u46	Madam President, I am surprised that some Members of this House still dare to be negative about the hashtagPlekFreedom campaign. I would therefore like to ask Mrs van Peel where the 35,000 families who have already registered should be taken care of? There just wasn't a solution! That action is therefore a very good thing. It is also to be welcomed that registration is being carried out so that refugees from Ukraine can visit well-known places of refuge and do not have to turn to all kinds of Facebook groups. I am also pleased that a link is being established between the criminal record and the residence check for those receiving refugees. Several eyes will therefore help to ensure a safe place for refugees. Keep up the good work, work with the regions and local authorities. Then we will succeed in our design!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u47	Prime Minister, Minister, Secretary of State, I have heard your answers. They encourage me to think that things are going to move forward in the fight against trafficking in human beings, because I feel your awareness of the situation and the need to act. On the other hand, Mr Secretary of State, I must confess that I did not get the answer I hoped for about support for the communes and coordination and the accompaniment. I'm sorry, but the experts are at the federal level. The issue of refugees is a federal one. We absolutely need to pilot this support and assistance, in the interests of the municipalities and the citizens, because they are willing and available, but they are not experts and rely on the presence of a pilot. You must take on this role now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u48	Prime Minister, I am pleased that you are taking the lead in coordinating with the prime ministers for collective care so that collective reception places can be provided in a timely and correct manner. You also confirm that there will be guidelines for the OMCWs, so that the treatment is uniform throughout the country. You also confirm that the tailor-made work that the OCMWs are already doing today can continue, so that each refugee can get the right support. What you said at the end is ultimately the most important thing, Prime Minister. Human shelter is central. I wish you and all those involved every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u49	Madam President, Minister, at this very moment there is a works council at EuroChem. Four hundred employees have been anxiously waiting for news for almost a week. Four hundred workers are going to work every day, but production is stationary and they do not know whether they will receive any wages today or next week. Minister, the reason for this is the European sanctions against the oligarchs. There is nothing wrong with that in itself, but let the business owner be an oligarch who has been sanctioned not to trade with these companies and to close the accounts. Let it be just with these accounts that the wages of these workers are paid. Just by imposing the sanction on those people that no trade should be made with them, they are not getting raw materials either. What does this tell us? That this is a very important company in the fertilizer industry. The fertilizer industry makes huge profits, but has a very high value for food production. What do the unions say? They're looking at the government. What's the government doing right now? Nothing. You give no answers and leave them in the dark. However, it is up to you to offer solutions for these people. It's up to you to think out of the box. Minister, how will the government ensure that the people of EuroChem are finally paid their wages? What can be done to ensure production? Is it an option for the government to temporarily or permanently take over the company?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u50	Mr Colebunders, EuroChem was indeed indirectly affected by European sanctions in Antwerp. The owner, Mr Melnichenko, was placed on the European penalty list. Since then, he has withdrawn from the company, but there are fears of serious problems in the payment of workers' wages and the continuity of employment. It could also have an important impact on the production of fertilisers and therefore on our agri-food industry. The EuroChem trade unions contacted me today. We will meet shortly, together with the Flemish Minister for Work, Mrs Crevits, to see what measures the federal and Flemish governments can take for the company and for the employees. The impact of the war in Ukraine and the sanctions policy have an economic cost for Belgium as well. So we didn't wait to take action. On my question, an interministerial economic committee met on 4 March to analyse which companies and sectors could be seriously affected. On Monday we also decided to extend the system of temporary unemployment due to force majeure to all companies facing the consequences of the war in Ukraine. The government has also asked the National Bank of Belgium to examine in detail the impact of increasing energy and raw materials on the various sectors. On the basis of these analyses, the government will examine, together with the social partners, what support measures can still be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u51	Mr Minister, technical unemployment was first mentioned as covid unemployment and now it will be called Ukraine unemployment. Is that the solution in assisting people in higher-level decisions? You rightly block accounts of oligarchs, but who provided that wealth? The people who have worked day in day out for the wealth of an oligarch are now being told that they are going to end up in technical unemployment. One of these workers told me this morning that they will receive the war four times, namely at the pump, at their energy bill, when they go to the store and now, at best, with technical unemployment without payment of wages. Minister, let me make it clear that this is a very large and profitable business with enormous added value in food production. Take your responsibility by considering taking over that company temporarily, whether permanent or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u52	Madam Secretary of State, I apologize for being requisitioned. I had addressed my question to the Prime Minister, but when it comes to the budget, it would be preferable not to speak, as we have already established on a number of occasions. I do not have a technical budget question for you, but a political question for you today. We're in bad shape. The word that once again falls into the debate today is blackmail. We're being blackmailed by Putin, who can turn off the gas tap. We're being blackmailed by Engie Electrabel when it comes to nuclear power plants. We're being blackmailed by China on the production of strategic goods. Everyone's always blackmailing, but nobody's asking why. How come we can be blackmailed so easily? How come we're so dependent on all the others? How come we can't stand on our own two feet? The answer is clear. We can't keep our pants off. We cannot pay our invoices and we are not sufficiently responsible for our own accounts. That is the beginning and end of strategic autonomy. There are countries, Mr Devriendt, that have their accounts in order. Those countries can go through today. These countries can invest in energy conversion today. These countries can focus on strategic production. We cannot do that because the budget is not in order. I am always surprised that the debate on this issue is not really taking place here, or at the very end. If a question is asked to the Prime Minister, it will run. I am concerned about that, and anyone who is concerned about the financing of our social model would be concerned about that. Madam Secretary of State, I do not want to ask you a technical question today, but a political one. Each time we see that the government makes extra spending. I would like to ask you to ensure that the funding of our social security is also guaranteed and that every time extra money is asked to be paid out, you guarantee that there will also be an immediate measure to put more people into work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u53	Mr Loones, I am sorry that you have to put your question at the very end, but that does not really matter. I certainly share your concern and have said so many times in committee. The government will therefore follow the budget closely. During the day we expect the report from the Monitoring Committee. That report will be based on the macroeconomic framework of the Federal Planning Office of 24 February, precisely the day of the raid in Ukraine. This means, of course, that the impact of this invasion is not yet in place and that the report will be partially obsolete before it is published. Budgetary control will take place in the coming weeks. We will include all the direct effects of the invasion, including the costs of aid to refugees and support to Ukraine, as well as the indirect effects with the impact on economic growth. The issue is very close to my heart, because we absolutely must keep the budget under control and ensure that our social system remains affordable. You will understand that the initial assessments during budgetary control will be very arbitrary, because unfortunately we do not yet know what the outcome of the conflict will be or how long it will take. Both elements play a decisive role in the number of expected refugees and their economic impact. There is no doubt that the impact on the budget will be important. But just as during the corona crisis, we will have to spend the money to support those refugees. However, that is only part of the story, because we are also looking at where we stand with this year's budget. We will review the budget to see whether the impact of the measures included in the 2022 budget has already been achieved and whether any adjustments are needed, including measures to increase the level of activity. That will also be part of budgetary control. We are also checking whether the committed operating and investment appropriations are adequate or whether they need to be adjusted in response to inflation. Finally, we will discuss possible new initiatives, albeit with due regard for budgetary sustainability and caution. Our government debt is high, as we know. Interest costs will increase again. The impact of the ageing population is fully felt, and this will be the case for decades to come. It is the intention to carry out budgetary control properly and to complete them by the Easter holidays. The exact timing is, of course, uncertain due to the current situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u54	Madam Secretary of State, your answer was not only too long, you simply provided the technical answer prepared by your cabinet. But that's not what this is about today. My question was about the political essence. Your budget, which was approved here at the end of last year, contains a deficit of 16 billion. There is a real chance that the Monitoring Committee will say that the deficit is about EUR 20 billion. You have enormous costs, even if the corona crisis is over. Now it's about security and defence, about energy. And the deficit will continue to rise. You will then come here with technical answers which you will examine, review and analyse, that you will monitor the expenditure carefully and that you will obviously be sensitive to the problem, etcetera etcetera. But that's not the point. The point is that you have a disastrous budget, with figures that are constantly getting worse and with an increase in expenditure. You can argue with that. You can tell the minister who wants to do a new edition, that it is good, but also that of him or her, for example the silent minister Dermagne in the Council of Ministers or Minister Lalieux (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u55	Mr President, Madam President, I would like to take the floor for a personal statement, as Mr Loones has just mentioned me. Mr Loones, I understand that the opposition is constantly looking for ways of attacking the government's budgetary policy, but you have surpassed yourself. Indeed, I could not suppress a little monk laughter when you said that the reason for Belgium's dependence on Russian raw materials and the reason for Belgium's dependence and the expansion of many European countries from, for example, China can be traced back to the state of the Vivaldi government's budget. I found that rather short on the bend and a bit too simple, hence my little grimas, to which you responded and mentioned my name.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u56	Mr De Vriendt, Minister Van Peteghem wanted to save EUR 17 on a full petrol tank, but it has only become EUR 10. Your Minister wants EUR 8 billion for investments in green energy. I wonder how much billion it will eventually be. The PS asks questions to raise invoices from all sides. Those requests are accepted, but not fully. Do you know why that is? You don't have the money. As long as the level of activity in this country does not increase, the funding of the social model will not be guaranteed. You seem to find that pulled by the hair. It bothers me that a political question addressed to the Prime Minister is passed on to the Secretary of State. It bothers me equally that many people in Parliament, including a group leader, do not recognise the seriousness of that budget. Over the next two days, we will discuss the budget once the report of the monitoring committee is available. Then next week we can go back to the rhythms and slogans of the day. The result of this situation, Mr De Vriendt, is that you will continue to run the risk of becoming energy-independent. That's what it's about.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u57	This concludes the oral question-and-answer session.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u58	This proposal was adopted by the External Relations and National Defence Commissions pursuant to s. 76 of the Regulation. This proposal was adopted by the External Relations and Defence Committees pursuant to Art. 76 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u59	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2579/2) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2579/2) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u60	Madam President, I would like to present to you and to my fellow Members an oral report because we only discussed and adopted the resolution on Russian aggression in Ukraine this morning. My colleague and I shared the report and prepared for the second part. So I hope my colleague will be here. The first part is therefore a document in French which I will now translate simultaneously for you. The Conference of Presidents of 16 March 2022 instructed the External Relations Committee and the Defence Commission to draw up a resolution on the aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine under Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure at its meetings on 16 and 17 March 2022. A number of political groups had tabled texts, such as Ecolo-Groen, the PS, Défi and the PVDA-PTB. In the end, the consideration was that it would be good for such a subject of this interest to work with a text from Parliament's committee, obviously starting from a particular draft. Then there has been a rather long and good discussion in committee with many elements which, of course, were not all included in the text of this resolution. We will be debating this for many weeks and months, unfortunately, because it does not seem that the situation in Ukraine will be stabilised rapidly. All political groups unanimously condemned the Russian attack against Ukraine and its inhabitants and expressed their support for the Ukrainian people. The debates then led to a draft resolution. Many amendments were also tabled, particularly by opposition groups, but also, of course, by a number of groups of the majority, in order to reach the final text. Those who intervened stressed that the Russian aggression we see today actually transcends the fact that there is a conflict between two countries. This is a new crisis, with global consequences, with global consequences. That is why the following issues were addressed: a security architecture in Europe and its financing, the role of NATO, the Russian attempts to influence our democracies, energy independence, the consequences for food security in Europe and the risk of a nuclear conflict or incident. Mr Ben Accour will be presenting the second part of the report, but I would first like to say what the end result was. That's important. Many speakers stressed the importance of a resolution which was adopted unanimously. Condemning the invasion by Russia, expressing support for the Ukrainian people, happens in many parliaments, worldwide, including in the Netherlands and Germany.. The result of the vote was 28 votes in favour of this resolution and 2 abstentions from the PVDA-PTB Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u61	Mr Ben Achour, you are called upon to speak for the second part of the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u62	Madam President, I apologize for my delay, which has changed the order of intervention a little bit. I thank Mr De Vriendt for his diligence. I would therefore take this oral report to tell you that, at the end of this morning's meeting, the Committee on External Relations and the Committee on National Defence adopted, as Mr De Vriendt said, a motion for a resolution, the main demands of which are numerous but, for each of them, important. I'll mention a few of them. We must continue to support Ukraine and its citizens in the face of the aggression of the Russian Federation and officially recognize Ukraine's state of aggression. We must continue to work within the European Union for a common approach at the diplomatic, humanitarian and military levels. All bilateral or multilateral initiatives aimed at the search for a ceasefire must be supported. Both nationally and within the European Union, and in cooperation with other participating States, there is a need to strengthen economic sanctions against banks, Russian companies and, more specifically, those targeting the Russian economic sectors and political and economic elite, in particular by providing for a mechanism for the confiscation and seizure of their movable and immovable property on both Belgian and European Union territory. Secondly, the text asks for an examination of how Belgium could become economically independent of Russian gas, oil and uranium as soon as possible. It also calls for humanitarian and medical assistance to the Ukrainian population, both through direct contributions to Ukraine and through the organisation of the reception of refugees and wounded in Belgium and within the European Union. The text also calls for an in-depth debate at European level and at Belgian level - which is important - on the long-term architecture of security in Europe, as well as on its financing. The penultimate point I wanted to highlight is to support the International Criminal Court in the challenges it will face in its investigation of the situation in Ukraine and to call on the international community to do the same. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to take the necessary steps to ensure, in the long run, the food security of the population in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, over the last few weeks, we have been collectively affected by Russia's cruel invasion of Ukraine. An autonomous country had to undergo an invasion and there were terrible images of shelters and apartment buildings being bombed and of hospitals being hit by rocket attacks. It has been a very long time since this hit the continent of Europe. Human toll is therefore particularly high, with many deadly victims and wounded. We don't know the exact numbers, but we do know that that counter is gonna go up. At the same time, there are also the many refugees. We just heard the numbers. That has its consequences so far, with all the challenges of that. Fortunately, there is a lot of solidarity, also in Flanders. Today there is also a great common action of radio and television. It's very nice that that support is there. The joint committees in this House, but hopefully also in plenary today, send out a message of solidarity, not with pleasure but with conviction. We condemn that raid by the Russians and call for the weapons to be silenced. We condemn the collaboration of the Belarusians on Putin's hand. We also express our solidarity with the Ukrainian people. We have to be resilient, but with the heart high. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have contributed to this text to a greater or lesser extent. Thanks to the intransigence of the Rules of Procedure referred to by the rapporteur, this text could be rushed by the joint committee in the short term. Last week a number of texts were considered in this plenary session and there is already a final vote this week. I would like to thank all those who have contributed to this, beyond the limits of majority and opposition. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs. One was on time, the other a little late, but I would like to thank them for their oral report. In particular, I would also like to thank Mrs Van Hoof, who has led the debates in a very neat and correct manner. A word of thanks is also appropriate for the committee secretariat, which has prepared everything in order to be able to vote on the text here today. Colleagues, it's always good to look back. Could it have been better? Would a better text proposal have been possible? I think so. For example, the first basic text should have been divided among the parties more quickly. I also think that some preliminary substantive and procedural agreements could have led to a more supported first proposal. Although the reporters rightly spoke of a rich debate, I am also convinced that a better exchange of ideas could have allowed even better and more detailed debate on the many valuable amendments, which could have led to an even stronger text. For example, there are some lapsuses in there that are actually wrong. Some things show that the majority did not want to make some adjustments, which is unfortunate, but I will not go over them all. Nor will I discuss all our proposed amendments. I will not table any new amendments today either. However, I would like to take two elements out of it, two points which could have enriched the text. Firstly, this text breathes Europe, it is already Europe that beats the clock. It is a question of strengthening the military, solidarity and partnership with Ukraine and strengthening sanctions at European level. That is all good and noble, we can also support it. However, we believe that our real protection is not so much guaranteed by the European Union as by NATO. That is a defect in this text. The only reference to NATO in the final text now before us is the question of the European countries joining together before a NATO summit to agree on their substantive positions. That is actually the only reference to NATO, i.e. to enhanced cooperation within the European Union. It is a pity that our constructive amendments in this area were rejected. The budget is a second focus. During the presentation and discussion of the National Security Strategy, the Prime Minister spoke yesterday in the Committee on Home Affairs about the fact that the current defence budget, which has a steady growth path towards 1.54 % in 2030, is insufficient. We need more than a little bit more than a little bit more than a little bit more than a little bit more than a little bit more than The NATO target of 2% of GDP should be met. Our amendments on this, which expressed our support for the Prime Minister's statement and the commitment to achieving that 2%, were voted down. Amendments tabled by the Open Vld Group and the MR Group were before us at some point and we wanted to support them, but they were suddenly withdrawn strangely enough this morning. However, we remain positive, working today in a spirit of constructiveness. The final text contains a passage which states that we must continue to discuss the financing of defence within the committee. Today, the N-VA Group has tabled a motion for a resolution calling for that target of 2% to be achieved effectively. So we can discuss this very soon in committee. We need to look at how we can give the growth path, which is now set out at 1.54 %, an upward nodding to meet our objectives. As chairman of the committee, within the instruments I have at my disposal, I will see to it that these texts can be presented quickly, so that we can have that discussion quickly within the committee, as this resolution calls for. Colleagues, I'm finishing up. The terrible war machine and the crimes of President Putin must stop. We should not be under any illusions, the text before us has a high symbolic value, but I do not think that Putin will get scared after adopting this text and order the arms to remain silent. Unfortunately, that will not happen. We haven't seen the last of this war situation. Refugee flows, energy that becomes priceless, companies that go bankrupt, the food crisis, they are all elements that have been discussed today and we are not talking about a possible further escalation of the war. Let's hope the ratio returns to the Kremlin. Let us hope that we are not directly involved in this terrible war. I think we in the free West will have to be resilient in the near future. Ladies and gentlemen, I was surprised at the final vote this morning. The Communist Party was the only party that did not support this resolution. The party is clearly bored with this conflict, with this terrible war. I can only interpret it so that solidarity with the Kremlin, with the oligarchs around Putin, is greater and more important than solidarity with the Ukrainian people. I find that incomprehensible. I hope that you will use the speaking time later to distance yourself from this terrible regime. You will have another chance at the final vote. Grab that rematch. In this way, we can vote unanimously in favour of this text. Ladies and gentlemen, this text could be better, but our group will support this resolution, with the terrible suffering of the Ukrainian people in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, one of the biggest Flemish newspapers today is the result of a survey on how people deal with this war in Ukraine. You really should take a look at it. I find the numbers really shocking. People are scared. People are more than worried, they're scared. They see the violence of war, we see the violence of war on television every day. We also hear what Putin is saying, his threat with the nuclear button. People are effectively scared. The violence in Ukraine is so brutal, so far-fetched that it is extremely frightening. We don't know what else is coming at us. Firstly, it is about the people in Ukraine. We see situations that we thought were no longer possible in today's Europe. Cities are besieged and surrounded, like Marioepol. Dozens of hospitals were bombed in three weeks. Heavy artillery fire is used, analysts say this happens because the Russian army crashes into the ground and therefore uses other means, such as artillery and aerial bombardment. And, of course, this makes much less distinction between military targets and civilian targets, with a high toll on civilian victims. Support for Ukraine, the condemnation of Russia's invasion of Ukraine and the condemnation of the support of a country such as Belarus is important. Mr Buysrogge, this resolution, which will be adopted shortly, will indeed not bring Putin down. Unfortunately, we all know that. I wish it were that easy. This resolution will have an influence on diplomatic and political matters. When we see how much resistance there is to Russian aggression, how many political parties in countries in Europe speak out against that kind of violence, this resolution is not insignificant either. This means, after all, that we all, including a number of parties here in Parliament, have sufficient common standards and values, yet we all have enough common sense that this cannot be done. And so we make a point, we send out a joint statement. I don't like this. It still refers to something we have in common across party boundaries. They are resolutions that have also been adopted in the Netherlands, Germany, the European Parliament and so on. The importance of a strong, united response is clear. I cannot understand why the PVDA-PTB did not want to support this resolution in committee. You must also condemn the brutal violence of war. You do not seem to be able to approve texts that do so. You did not do that in the Flemish Parliament or this morning in this Chamber of Representatives. What the hell is stopping you? You're gonna get a chance to do it. You then call our moral indignation somewhat one-sided because we do not have it when it comes to NATO or what is happening in Afghanistan. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but Ecolo-Groen also expressed this indignation when it comes to civilian casualties, for example, caused by NATO action. The difference between your group and ours is that we also condemn this, but also Russian aggression, including the genocide on the Uighurs in China. The difference between us and you is: no two sizes, two weights. International law and human rights are at the heart of us, not civilian victims, condemnation of aggression and war violence worldwide. That is the difference between our groups. This week, the committee received a delegation from Ukrainian MPs. The chairman of the Ukrainian Foreign Affairs Commission has said that he is afraid and thinks Russia wants to turn Ukraine into an Aleppo or a Grozny. We are talking about such violence against civilian victims. This resolution calls for additional economic sanctions against Russia and the Russian elite, linked to Putin's regime. It also supports further assistance to Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. It is important for us to believe in the diplomatic path, so try to do everything multilaterally or bilaterally for a cease-fire and a peaceful solution. This is an eye-opener: in the longer term we must become independent of Russian gas, petroleum and uranium. As I said earlier, the debate was much richer than that. However, I believe that some matters should simply be dealt with further in Parliament. Among other things, there was a debate on Sweden's and Finland's membership of NATO. To be honest, that's all too early. I think we should now condemn the Russian invasion of Ukraine and express our support for the Ukrainian people. I still hope that we will do so unanimously here in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Albert Camus said: "To name things wrong is to add to the misfortune of the world." In this case, it is important to name things well. We are indeed facing an act of aggression, in the face of a flagrant violation of international law, of the Charter of the United Nations and, more particularly, of its Article 2, § 4, which is so important in the field of international law, in the order after the Second World War, which gives absolute priority to the peaceful settlement of conflicts. If there is any doubt as to the illegality of this completely unjustified, unprovoked war, yesterday the International Court of Justice, the highest court of the United Nations, ordered Russia to cease its invasion of Ukraine without delay. It also ordered him to ensure that no military or armed unit under his leadership continued military action on Ukrainian territory. Words are very important here. When the Russian army, when the Kremlin decides to target a motherhood in Mariupol, it is clearly a war crime. When Putin targets a nuclear power plant, it is a war crime punishable by Article 56 of the Additional Protocol to the Geneva Conventions. When the Kremlin takes refugee flows as targets or even journalists, it's a war crime. I am proud, ladies and gentlemen, that Belgium is one of the forty countries – this is the first time this has happened – that have filed a complaint with the International Criminal Court in The Hague at the same time. We must also send a very clear message from our Assembly to stop impunity. These crimes must be punished in the international order. Since 24 February, it has been three million people who have fled Ukraine under bombardments, hundreds of thousands who find themselves trapped in or around the cities. I believe it is important that we really support with all our political forces, also here in Belgium, at the heart of Europe, the establishment of safe humanitarian corridors to protect civilian populations. I must tell you, very sincerely, how proud I am of the momentum of solidarity that is going through our country and throughout Europe. I am proud of this European Union of 27 that is clinging to this war in the heart of our continent. I am proud of this Europe that says "Welcome refuges" and welcomes these refugees. And I say, we must do so without any discrimination. I am thinking in particular of Protestants, the opposition, this civil society, not only in Ukraine but also in Belarus and Russia. Those political opponents who dare today to brave the bans on demonstrations, whether in Moscow or in dozens of other cities in Russia, force respect and admiration and give us a lesson of political courage. Political courage is not exactly what has characterized Europe, fossil and fissile, in recent decades. It is clear that we will not directly wage war on Ukrainian territory in Putin. On the other hand, we have the opportunity here and now to stop, to cut off the financing valves of the unjust, illegal war that Putin is leading to Ukraine. It is 637 million euros that are paid daily to the Poutinian regime for oil and gas imports into Europe. And so yes, the question today is no longer just to save the planet or the climate, it has also become an issue of international security, of European security for the continent, of decarbonizing Europe. When I see that some oil giants like Total Energies continue to operate in Russia, I say "honest"! These oil giants give gold into the hands of the Poutinian regime and, precisely, allow this regime to continue these war crimes with impunity on Ukrainian soil. I don't think we should have taboos. We talked a lot about dependence on Russian gas and oil. We must also dare to talk about the dependence on Russian uranium. When the United States imposed an embargo on Russian gas when it did not import gas from Russia, imposed an embargo on oil, while not even 8% of Russian oil arrived on American soil, and forgot to impose an embargo on Russian uranium when it ran 50 per cent of nuclear power plants on American soil, there was hypocrisy and a lack of coherence. Let us be consistent, ladies and gentlemen, because today, for the first time in history, we see an army, the Russian army, aiming at a nuclear power plant, the largest in Europe, that of Zaporijia. The Secretary-General of the United Nations has recently stated that the prospect of a nuclear conflict that was once unthinkable is now within the realm of the possible. I am very concerned about the collaboration, cooperation and complicity of the Russian nuclear giant Rosatom, including its subsidiaries such as TENEX, which, just a few weeks ago, supplied 26% of the uranium consumed on the European continent. I'm saying it has to stop! This old political policy of the 20th century at the corrupt Schröder with barrels, gas pipelines, enriched uranium from Russia must cease. The solution? The real cure? Investing in our energy transition, renewables, solar and wind. There are the Schröder, the Salvini in Italy, but we also have the PTB. I am so sad to see your abstention in such circumstances! When I see the images that have been punctuating our daily lives for more than 20 days, the images of children bombarded, of fathers who must bid farewell to mothers and children, I think, frankly, the question that we all have to ask ourselves here as parliamentarians in this House, in this House is: are we doing enough? When you choose the camp of abstention, silence, yes, you choose the camp of the oppressor. I condemn your choice to vote against this amendment, which was proposed by colleagues from the opposition, by Mr Dallemagne, by colleagues from DéFI, who proposed to say that it was a military attack. It's not just an offensive. It's not just a military operation. No, things have a name in international law and, indeed, it is an act of aggression! Aggression is defined as the use of armed force by a State against the sovereignty, territorial integrity or political independence of a State. That's what this is all about! You voted against it while the rest of this House obviously voted in favour of this amendment. I think of those pacifist thinkers who forged my political commitment from a young age. My first political demonstration was with my father, against the war in Iraq.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u66	Mr Cogolati, may I ask you to close your speech? You've exceeded your speaking time. Mr Buysrogge would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u67	I can follow what you have said, Mr Cogolati. I fully support your attack against the colleagues of the PVDA. However, I regret that you are trying to catch them on the fact that they are voting away the good amendments. We have tabled many strong amendments with our group, innocent amendments, which were simply voted out by the majority because there was no agreement within the majority. Please do not lecture other parties because they voted away amendments. It's good to look into your own deer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u68	I would simply say that this is a fact: it is indeed a military aggression. It is our moral, ethical and political duty to condemn the repression, intimidation and arbitrary detention of opponents – whether in Russia, Belarus or Ukraine. I am proud that today a very large democratic majority of this Parliament is speaking alongside the Ukrainians and the civilian population, not the oppressor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, "the House condemns in the strongest terms the military attacks by the Russian Federation against Ukraine, its sovereignty, its independence, its territorial integrity and its people." It is with these strong words that this motion for a resolution adopted by the Committee on External Relations and the Committee on Defence opens. So there's an assailant and an assailant. Let it be clear, plainly written and voted! We cannot find any – but, then, there really no – mitigating circumstance in Russia. The text of my group, which served as the basis, leaves no ambiguity in this respect. We can read Macbeth from Shakespeare again. At one point, Macbeth, who plotted against King Duncan and murdered him, said: "Neptune's oceans will never be wide enough to clean up all the blood I have on my hands." This sentence should be meditated by Vladimir Putin and all those around him who have organized this abject crime, this collective conspiracy of an oligarchic regime against European fundamental freedoms and against the popular will to adhere to this world of both individual and collective freedoms. In fact, in Vladimir Putin's head – and I am not talking about the Russian people or Russia, but about Putin and his regime – it is a crusade against European values that is involved, accompanied by a conservative and religious crusade – supported, moreover, by the Orthodox Patriarch of Russia Kirill. I will not take up all the important elements which constitute our resolution and which I have presented in committee. But I would like to highlight a number of crucial points for my group in this text. A resolution which, let us recall, requires an immediate ceasefire and unconditional withdrawal of all Russian troops outside the borders of Ukraine, as recognized by the international community. Like many of you and of us, I have heard calls for pacifism. Socialists are pacifists, but the time is now not just pacifism. We must of course give priority to all channels of dialogue: political, diplomatic, multilateral, bilateral, no matter what the good will is if they are in the direction of peace and a ceasefire, withdrawal of the Russian army from Ukraine and respect for the territorial integrity of Ukraine. We are in favour of it, but pacifism is not just that, it is going to the bedside of the person who is attacked and trying everything, including the interventions necessary to preserve the physical integrity of the victims. When a person is attacked, looking like an unhealthy voyeur, it is not acting and it is not our conviction as a pacifist. And for those who, sometimes very unfairly, recall Jean Jaurès! But Jean Jaurès wrote a fundamental book in 1911! Of course, he was murdered on July 31, 1914. We don't know what he could have said when the war broke out a few days after his death. But in 1911 Jean Jaurès wrote a book: "L'Armée nouvelle", in which he describes with method, precision and enthusiasm what a French army must be, an army composed of citizens who sociologically reflect Republican France. And he adds: "When there is an offensive against the laws of the Republic, when there is an offensive against the laws of freedom and against internationalism, then we must operate and launch a military counter-offensive, after a period of latency and diplomatic attempts." This is what Jean Jaurès wrote! You smile but you smile as Jules Guesde smiled by hearing or reading Jean Jaurès but read "The New Army" and stop making your Jules Guesde who, when Jean Jaurès wrote this text, accused him of being an imperialist, of being a militarist. So please when you quote Jean Jaurès, quote the real Jean Jaurès! Jean Jaurès, who opposed communism, who was never a communist but who has always been a deep socialist! [[Applause from the European Democratic Group]] [[)]] And so as not to remain in historical references (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u70	(excluding microphone)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u71	And all those who criticized him, who vilified him and who constituted communism in 1921...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u72	(excluding microphone)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u73	It was those who attacked him who formed the Communist Party in 1921. Don't forget it! Stop your historical revisionism! We know it's one of your passions! (Applause) (Applause) Dear colleague, you who seem to be omniscient and who teach everyone about wisdom, fraternity, freedom, equality, do you know the Razem party? It is the left-wing Polish party close to the Spanish Podemos, close to certain components of La France insubmissive, so rather close to you, in theory. This is what the Razem party said a few days ago: "You don't have to love NATO but Russia is not the weakest and most threatened party today." To take back also an author whom we love and which I also particularly like. George Orwell, of course in 1941 – perhaps you will also challenge this argument – said: "A crime remains a crime, whether committed by a democracy or by a dictatorship." NATO's crimes, which NATO has sometimes done very badly, we have also condemned. A crime remains a crime. But the difference between a crime committed in a democracy and a crime committed in a dictatorship is that, in one of the regimes, democracy, one allows to contest this crime. In a dictatorship, we don't allow it. "And in a country like ours," Orwell said, "we are not afraid to stand up to say what we think," which is not the case with Russia. Our common, strong and clear text aims, on the one hand, to welcome and regulate precisely the action of our Government and, on the other hand, to ensure that our Assembly continues to be involved in the development in Ukraine and in the decisions to be taken within the European Union, the United Nations and NATO. In the continuation of my intervention in Strasbourg a few days ago in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, as Russian bomb flows fell and continue to fall on Ukraine, my first words will therefore go to Ukrainians, children, women and men who are victims of this war launched by a Putin Russia that has become completely insane and unstoppable at this stage, a regime that has chosen to banish itself from nations, as demonstrated by the historic vote of the UN General Assembly on 2 March 2022, which called for the withdrawal of Russian forces from Ukraine. It is, of course, a military war which, indiscriminately and every day, sheds the blood of civilians, but it is also a war of diplomatic misinformation, cyberattacks, nuclear threat, the total questioning of international law and all that makes European values and, more fundamentally, our humanity. In short, it is a war of terror, a terror that also attacks all Russian citizens who would like to denounce the Putin regime or this war. We must support democratic, progressive and free speech movements in this country at a time when it is no longer a member of the Council of Europe. And in the face of this terror, we must give our full support to the Ukrainian people, to their authorities, to the Russian aggression and to their right to defend their people and their sovereign territory. We must support the democratic aspirations for the necessary reforms and freedom of the Ukrainian people, which have been clearly manifested for several years, quite freely, in the streets and in the ballot boxes! Faced with this terror, it will be – as some of my colleagues have said – for international justice to do its job and to ask Putin and his regime for accountability. And it will be up to us to support this international justice, because impunity is not an option in the face of potential but increasingly documented war crimes. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the stakes are crucial for Ukraine, of course, but also for our collective future on our European continent. A continent that has been the source of unspeakable horrors in the history of humanity and of two world wars. The stakes are therefore crucial for the European project, which was born in reaction to this history, and the values of peace and human rights inherent in it. What is at stake, ladies and gentlemen, is the future of a free Ukraine, but also the future of Europe and, more generally, the future of the world and multilateralism. We will never repeat it enough: Europe is much more than an economic or geopolitical project, it is a project around our values rooted in human rights and the rule of law. And these values, they're non-negotiable. So we are accused of speaking too often about Europe in this text. But we are Europe! We are part of Europe, we are European citizens. Therefore, in this text we need to talk about NATO but also, of course, in all its dimensions, about Europe. Our country and the European Union must therefore continue to live up to these challenges in the face of unacceptable aggression. With this text, my group would also like to express its support for the government, both in its overall diplomatic, humanitarian and military action, as well as for the social measures taken to support the municipalities and the CPAS that are on the front line – as has been said on topical issues – for the reception of Ukrainian refugees, not to mention the economic measures taken to alleviate the bills of our citizens, and to consolidate our socio-economic fabric in the face of the consequences of this invasion. We need to develop resilience and resilience within Belgium. We support, of course, any bilateral or multilateral initiative that would genuinely revive dialogue and talks to end the conflict or, at the very least, achieve an immediate ceasefire. As I said, all possible initiatives must be taken to get out of this war. The sanctions against Russia and its ally, Belarus, are part of it. We support a gradual approach and a strengthening of sanctions at the political, economic and international levels. We welcome the sanctions already taken. But we have to go even further. There must also be economic sanctions not against the Russian population, but against this caste of oligarchs and others who revolve around President Putin. These sanctions must go as far as the confiscation of their property in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u74	Mr. Lacroix, could you conclude, please?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u75	I conclude, Madam President. But I have been so interrupted that, if you allow me to do so, I will conclude my speech in a minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u76	I'll give you a minute, Mr. Lacroix.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u77	Thank you for your kindness, which contrasts with that of some colleagues, Madam President. [[(....): (....)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u78	Yes, but when you're a left-wing man, sir, you have to be kind to the one who expresses yourself and the one who claims an opinion. In the face of this war, I would like to welcome the action of the Minister of Defence, who constantly reminds us that we must help Ukraine, but also that our objective is to achieve an end to hostilities, a ceasefire and the withdrawal of Russian troops. We must avoid an infernal escalation that would lead us to a third world war. I will conclude my speech, Madam President, by addressing the issue of refugees in our country. Our action in this area must live up to the solidarity shown to the Ukrainian people under attack. Our communes have important resources. We have to support them. It is unacceptable that, because of their origin, some people are obliged to go through the asylum procedure when they have Ukrainian resident status. Let us remember: they flee the same war, they flee the same bombs. It's our responsibility! On all these fronts, our country must rise to the historic challenges posed by this ignoble and savage aggression by Vladimir Putin and his system in Ukraine, at the gates of the European Union. I hope that this strong and clear resolution will be adopted by the widest possible majority in this House, and I would like to make a strong and final appeal to those who are still hesitant.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today it is three weeks since the sovereign nation of Ukraine was confronted with something that, until recently, no-one held it possible, a military invasion by the Russian Federation. After the show of the weeks before, where Vladimir Putin said it was a military exercise, it escalated quickly. The evolution of what was first a violent conflict and an invasion was named after a true war on our European territory surprised many. It goes without saying that Russia has crossed a red line with this large-scale offensive. It is a violation of international law in its purest form. The human suffering that we can all see is immense and leaves no one untouched. Anyone who saw and heard Putin's speech yesterday knows that we are dealing here with a war which we are not able to assess in the short term, but certainly in the long term. A sharp and unambiguous condemnation, smart and targeted sanctions, and humanitarian support for the courageous and combatable Ukrainian people, are therefore at issue here. Ladies and gentlemen, all the political groups in this House have been able to express their condemnation and their views on this matter on several occasions, either in this House or in various committees. As in the Senate, the Flemish Parliament and the European Parliament, a resolution was drawn up in the womb of the Defence and Foreign Affairs Committees, which expresses, among other things, the legitimate condemnation. That is what the debate was about yesterday and this morning. Colleagues, I could set up a tree here about how this work went on. When I say this wasn't a good thing, I certainly don't exaggerate. An overall amendment had to be negotiated yesterday, in which the opposition was not involved. Some 70 amendments were tabled last night and were put to the vote this morning. These are not good examples of what should have been a serene debate. I found some of that yesterday. I think that's something I'm going to have to say today. However, we take note of that and I will not repeat what was said yesterday. In the meantime, a lot has been said about the content, so I shall be brief. Apart from condemning the military invasion, we stress once again that the Flemish interest supports support for the Ukrainian people in the humanitarian field. We also support the reception of refugees or temporary displaced persons. We have consistently advocated and stressed the need for reception in our own region. The Ukrainians are a European brother people who are in our vicinity. However, we find it poignant to note that the reception capacity that this country puts first cannot currently be used for these refugees for reasons that we have repeatedly cited here in this House. It is at least painful to call on the living rooms of our own people to take on the war refugees from Ukraine. Partly because of this war on our eastern borders, our people are already suffering a great deal from the exploding energy prices, the imminent economic recession and perhaps soon also from the imminent food crisis as a result of the war. So it's a failure all over the line. Although the purpose of this resolution is actually to send a political signal, many elements have been incorporated, ranging from sanctions, their control, the delivery of humanitarian aid, increased attention to cyber attacks to the conduct of investigations into war crimes. These are all legitimate points of attention. The military aspect is a subject which has remained quite absent and under-exposed in all these resolutions, since four of them were initially absent and under-exposed, but it is essential for our group as a whole. In our view, this war clearly demonstrates the irrelevantness and weakness of Europe in the defence field. We can no longer rely solely on the United States to defend our own European eastern borders. All EU countries will have to play their part, including this country. This government must therefore make an additional budgetary effort as soon as possible and increase the budget to the level of our European partners in NATO. Germany has shown us the example in this respect. It will increase its defence efforts to 2% of GDP, hence the Flemish Interest Group was the first and only party to table an amendment to that effect yesterday. Afterwards, we were followed by other parties, whether or not by a vague and generally expressed amendment of the MR, which was watered down according to time. We call for defence efforts to be increased as quickly as possible to the minimum standard of 2% of GDP set by NATO, because with the currently set at 1.54 %, Belgium is far removed from what is necessary to meet the current and future security challenges. We have also raised our energy independence by means of an amendment in which we ask for this energy independence to be achieved quickly and in the meantime to keep the present nuclear power stations open. After all, we cannot deny that the invasion of Ukraine by Russia has a negative impact on energy prices, which were already high in Belgium. Energy independence is therefore crucial. The more we remain dependent on abroad for our energy supply, the more vulnerable we remain in this kind of conflict. We must build an economically sound energy policy that we ourselves take over. One final point I would like to raise is the need for a vision on ensuring food security for our people. I am pleased that the majority in this House was in favour of the opposition's proposals. That was eventually included in the text. Having said that, we essentially support the call for diplomatic dialogue to be given every opportunity. This can be done within the framework of the OSCE, in line with the Helsinki Final Act, the Minsk Agreements and the Paris Charter of 1990. If all parties are serious about implementing the agreements in the texts before us, then perhaps we can finally come together to achieve a more stable security concept in Europe, because I believe that I am not speaking in my own name or on behalf of my group alone, the only fundamental solution to this horrific war is to get all the parties to the table and negotiate a cease-fire and a peace agreement. So we must not throw oil on the fire, we must not support colleagues' amendments calling for a no-fly zone, we cannot advocate enlargement of the EU or NATO at a difficult time such as this, in which only caution and de-escalation must be taken into account. Our first concern must be to stop further bloodshed and escalation. This conflict must not degenerate into a greater conflict, into a world war. This is the first priority, not only for us, but certainly for the Ukrainians, for the Russians and also for our people. We shall be supporting the resolution in full, as we did in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u80	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the decision to launch a massive military attack on Ukraine on the night of 22-23 February by the Russian Federation is a long-premeditated act, an act of war that violates all the rules of international law, violates all the commitments made in the framework of the OSCE conclusions and, above all, violates the values of peace and freedom on which the European continent has built its balance for decades and even since 1945. Indeed, the Charter of the United Nations was drafted to ban such aggression. The 1990 Paris Charter and the OSCE conclusions reiterated these safeguards, in vain. I would like to affirm that we are now, alas, in another world, a world in which a neighbouring country attacks another country to subject it to its political and economic visions, a world in which the security interests of one State take precedence over the sovereignty of another State, a world in which diplomatic dictates are expressed in public without the possibility of negotiation, a world in which military force becomes the first instrument of foreign policy. Whatever the time, ladies and gentlemen, these practices were used by dictators in 1938 as in 2022. It was the behaviour of the democracies attacked in their foundation that changed in 1938. Westerners and, more particularly, Europeans seem to be determined this time to counter the challenge that the Kremlin dictator, through Ukraine, is putting to the democratic world. Let us be honest with ourselves! Our response - its firmness, intransigence and long-term relevance - will be analysed by other countries. Madam President, we strongly condemn this aggression and give our full support to the Ukrainian people, who are experiencing terrible, appalling moments, as well as to all the victims of this tragedy. We admire President Zelensky in a very churchillian style. We support the Ukrainian opposition by civilian, humanitarian and military means. We are deciding on sanctions packages, the fourth since the beginning of the Russian invasion; sanctions that we want to target so that they will have a massive effect on the Russian economy in the short term, of course, but also and especially in the long term. The price of the war that Mr Putin wants to wage will be devastating for his country. The consequences will be visible in the long term. We provide defence equipment to Ukraine on a bilateral basis or through the European Peace Facility. Two times 500 million euros have already been mobilised. Colleagues, there are two flats to these sanctions. They have a cost to our economies, to our citizens, to which must be added the effects of the economic recovery of autumn 2021, but we must bear it and be consistent. Strong measures are needed to punish the Russian government, but of course our government must accompany our citizens and businesses so that they can best reap the economic impacts of the effects of this situation. A European response that shares the weight of these efforts must be quickly developed. These sanctions also cost the Russian people, to whom we must turn urgently. Russian Democrats must be helped, without nostalgic thinking for Cold War dissidents but with new means, new codes so that these Russian citizens know that they are not alone. Russia struggles to build within it an area of political and individual freedom - it is an euphemism - and this since the Tsarist era. Russia's political history is not over and the revolutionaries of 1905 will of course have descendants who will tackle the same challenges. On this point, I insist that we also lead the battle of communication. President Putin is lying! He rewrites history as any country that has not been able to reflect on his past. His media is upsetting the sense of truth. A Russian history of the 20th century still has to be written in all its shadows and it will take a long pedagogy to teach it and to make it accept it. Madam President, diplomacy still has a place to put an end to the war. The weapon of diplomacy is the only weapon in our democracies, but it has many facets. Let us use them intelligently and in a coordinated manner. An immediate ceasefire is needed, as is respect for international humanitarian law and the protection of civilians, as well as the delivery of humanitarian assistance. The siege of cities is an inhumane stage of this conflict. Let's be delusional! Having not broken the Ukrainian resistance from the outset, Russia will reproduce the model it applied in Chechnya, which it applied in Syria. A war deliberately aimed at the destruction of entire cities, targeting - as colleagues have said - civilian populations, hospitals, markets and schools. Once again, this cease-fire is conditioned by Mr Putin's acceptance of dictates on Ukraine's non-membership of NATO. An element which, however, should be the subject of a broader set of measures constituting a final agreement, of course. Ladies and gentlemen, diplomacy must draw constructive elements from the past. I am interested in the Chinese position that could, as Henry Kissinger realized in the 1970s, play a role in this triangulation of the world. The medium-term lesson of the current events is the need for Westerners, and especially Europeans, to prepare for a relationship with the great eastern neighbour who has every chance of remaining difficult, if not confrontational, at least as long as Vladimir Putin's generation is in power. The position of States must be analysed in the United Nations vote. The Atlantic Alliance, of which we are members, is a defensive alliance. It defends itself through articles 4 and 5 when one of its members is attacked. We must reiterate our military commitment to the projection of our allies in Eastern Europe if the conflict were to be extended beyond Ukrainian territory in the countries of the members of the Alliance. I welcome the government's decisions to strengthen our participation in NATO's arrangements in the Baltic countries as well as in Romania. I call on the Prime Minister and our NATO Ambassador to raise the public expression of the impermeability of Article 5 at next week's NATO summit. This military solidarity must be seen by anyone as an impassable bulwark at the political, of course, but also at the military level. And we must, in a more constructive way than during the Cold War, successfully commit ourselves to the advancement of a Europe of defence, a guarantee of European sovereignty. We have to put our action in the long run. We must develop a long-term strategy, as was the container after 1945. The trial before us, before the Ukrainian people, above all, and before the Russian people, will be long, painful and cruel. As after the attacks of 2015, the resilience of our nation and its ability to absorb shocks must be strengthened. I'm thinking about cyber attacks first. Then I think about energy autonomy. The sacrifices requested are real, but they are manageable, and lead us on a path, that of decarbonation, which is precisely the one we are seeking. By provoking us, Russia pushes us to be more virtuous, indeed, and faster. I am still thinking of food self-sufficiency. This war will last. It will have consequences in our lives. It will considerably weaken Russia by asphyxiating it economically and isolating it politically in the world. But it must be won for our principles and for our values; and to deter anyone, colleagues, from repeating this kind of ignoble aggression. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, as the President informs me that I have only three minutes left to speak, I will try to be as concise as possible, in connection with what my colleague De Maegd has just said and with what my excellent colleagues have also said this afternoon. I would also like to thank all of you - whether in the Defence Committee or in the External Relations Committee - for the constructive and effective work we have done. It is therefore this morning that we have finalized this motion for a resolution, which must demonstrate that we will unwaveringly address the challenges not only in terms of defence, diplomacy, but also in terms of the reception policy in our country. As I have indicated in the past few weeks, unity will have to do our strength. This motion for a resolution, which I hope we will vote very broadly, is proof of this. The efforts that we will have to make will have to show solidarity and coherence in the defence of freedom as well as of human and universal rights, especially in Europe, because it is also about its future. I would also like to make it clear, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen - since we will have to look very seriously at this other point in the coming years - and I am speaking in particular to the members of the Defence Committee, that in 2017 we adopted a military programming law which was already to reduce some delay in taking on our responsibilities within the international organisations of which we are part, such as NATO - to name but a few. These efforts will have to be even more important, with even greater will. I also welcome the Prime Minister who said last week that substantial efforts should be made for the benefit of the Department of Defence. I hope that we will have a very constructive and effective debate in the Defence Committee in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u82	Thank you, Mrs Jadin, for being attentive to the time allotted to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the images of the war in Ukraine leave nothing to be desired. We can feel the pain of the Ukrainian people up to here. The attack on the theatre in Marioepoel once again made it clear that the Russian army does not save human lives, innocent civilians and openly commit war crimes. And what does Putin say? He says it's going well. How ruthless can one be? As people in the first place and as politicians, we cannot remain unmoved. I am therefore pleased today that we have managed to adopt a position as a Parliament and condemn the horrific aggression. I agree with Mr Buysrogge's words of thanks to all those who have contributed to this. We must be on Ukraine's side. Yesterday, the Ukrainian MPs of majority and opposition were side by side to express their disgust and desperate to ask for our support. That went through marrow and leg. That is why I regret that we cannot stand side by side here today to condemn the atrocious crimes. I don't understand. If there is one subject on which we should stand side by side, it is surely our horror for that attack. I do not understand why the PVDA Group remains on the sidelines and their supporters follow that. I cannot believe that, and I really hope that you will press the green button after all. That is worth it to the Ukrainian people, and that is also worth it to the courageous Russians who are acting against Putin. The violation cannot be justified in any way. For these reasons, the sanctions are very important and it is good that we are calling for this resolution to be extended and deepened. Of course, we must always opt for de-escalation, pacification and diplomacy in order to resolve conflicts. But if these solutions do not work, should we lead people to slaughter? I don't think so. I think we should stand side by side and not be naive. We see massive violations of international humanitarian law. Civil targets are being bombed, hospitals are being shot to pieces, civilians are being killed in cold blood. Those images keep burning on the retina. Putin will be brought before the International Criminal Court, but he has not endorsed the Rome Statute, so he can slip away from it. That is why we have also asked with CD&V to set up a special tribunal. For crimes of aggression, which are in their own laws, Putin and his supporters can be condemned. It is good that we have included this, because in this way we guarantee that they will not be able to evade their responsibilities. If we let everything pass, what are all these international institutions and treaties worth? The Ukrainians today defend not only their own territory, but also their values, as well as our values. That's why we're side by side. Our people are also showing themselves on their warmest side. Numerous families have signed up to do something. On Facebook, for example, we read that people want to cook for the refugees. People feel bad when they get up in the morning and see what happened again last night. We must also have the courage to promote this commitment at European level. We therefore call for a strengthened partnership with Ukraine at European level. Every second a child becomes a refugee, according to Unicef, and 70,000 children a day flee Ukraine. This is happening in extremely fragile circumstances, which were discussed earlier. I am a great supporter of United Nations Resolution 1325 of the year 2000 on women, peace and security. Every five years, we give details of this resolution through fine action plans. Well, the time has come for us to really turn these plans into action. We must protect women and girls from violence, and we must also ensure that women participate in the peace negotiations, as stated in the motion for a resolution, because at the moment I have to look for women in negotiations with a magnifying glass. This is important because we need to protect them from gender-based violence, such as sexual abuse and exploitation, to which both the majority and the opposition have already called in Parliament. We must therefore make the action plans concrete. I have heard from the relevant ministers that the issue is being taken seriously and that the action plans are being worked on. We must indeed pay attention to the most vulnerable, on refugee routes and in reception camps or when they are looking for accommodation. Let girls and women not suffer the conflict, but let them control, de-mining and also resolve it. Another problem raised in the proposal relates to the news gathering, on which there is some controversy. We cannot go around the passionate call of the Baltic States. I was still witnessing this for a long time at a meeting - to limit at European level the Russian propaganda with which they are flooded on their territory. So, in line with the motion for a resolution, let us examine how to curb the propaganda media channels and disinformation in Russia. By the way, we already took Russia Today out of the air at Flemish level. I take this opportunity to express our thanks and appreciation for the diplomatic, civil and military staff. They are responsible for our protection on a daily basis. Of course, we must have the debate on our Belgian and European security architecture. This did not fit in with the discussion of this motion for a resolution. In any case, our group is open to the debate on this issue. I would like to point out that the budget may not be sufficient for the defence sector and believe that additional investments, mainly in equipment, should be considered in consultation with NATO and Europe. I reiterate my support not only for the Ukrainian people, who are affected by a devastating war, but also for the Russians who are at risk on their own lives, think of the woman who showed a pancarte on Russian state television, an incredible act of courage, for which I, no doubt together with all of you, offer a great deal of respect and admiration. We're on their side, too. We are on the side of the Ukrainian people. I can call on everyone to adopt this motion for a resolution today, side by side, as was the case in the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard a lot about our position. I hope that I will have the opportunity here to explain our vote. I would also say that this Parliament wants to be democratic and that one of the fundamental principles of democracy is to listen to opinions, especially if they are contrary, in order to understand and conduct the debate. The debate is the only way to reach the most relevant and well-founded conclusions, because there is a confrontation of arguments. I hope we can have this discussion here in a calm manner. In order for it to be calm, we must first correct certain things that have been said. I hear that the PTB has difficulty condemning Russia's aggression against Ukraine. I hear the PTB is uncomfortable because it wants to protect the Kremlin, but it's in a delicate situation. Nothing is more wrong, ladies and gentlemen! Nothing is more false! Why would a party that would be embarrassed or uncomfortable condemning Russia's aggression against Ukraine file a text of resolution that strongly condemns this military aggression and demands measures to be put in place and things to do to get out of this war? We have a text on the table...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u85	Mr. Lacroix would like to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u86	I expected a little more benevolence from you, Mr. Lacroix, to allow me to develop my point of view. But go ahead, I'm listening!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u87	I am benevolent: I have asked for the floor. I followed the rule. You're telling me you're not uncomfortable. Yes, you're uncomfortable! If you hadn't been uncomfortable, you, the PTB, would not have erased everything you had posted on social media, where you were talking about American propaganda announcing Russia's invasion of Ukraine. You've erased all of this. Now, it belongs to the trash in history, according to you. So yes, you are uncomfortable, and your resolution, as you have tabled it, is a political posture to catch up! But the best way to catch up with you, I tell you again, and I beg you, is to vote for this resolution which condemns in all points – not only in its title or not only on certain elements – Vladimir Putin's regime and its savage aggression, and which is interested in the Ukrainian people and wants to participate in its rescue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u88	I shall resume, ladies and gentlemen, and I shall reply to you at the same time, Mr Lacroix. As I said, we must not be embarrassed to table a text of resolution that strongly condemns the aggression that is taking place in Ukraine today. These are facts. The text is here. I challenge anyone here to find in this text any complacency towards Mr Putin and his oligarch regime. It is prepared with an official text submitted by the PTB. This is the best way to prove the position of the PTB on the subject. When we question this here – I dare to believe it, in bad faith, because we have repeated it several times – we lie. To say that the PTB does not condemn Russian aggression in Ukraine is a lie. We did. This morning, when we had the debate in committee on the resolution we are going to vote on earlier, we supported in this text all the recitals and all the demands that condemn Russia's aggression against Ukraine because we consider this war to be unfair and cruel to the Ukrainian people. That must be clear! This war violates international law. This war violates the Charter of the United Nations. This war is unacceptable and must be condemned unconditionally and firmly! It's something you can't take away from us! You cannot tell us that we are ambiguous on this point. It's clear as rock water! Secondly, we have supported all the recitals and requests that express support for the Ukrainian people who are now experiencing the horror of war. The Ukrainian people live under bombs. There are deaths, victims, millions of refugees. I would like to welcome here the momentum of solidarity that has emerged at European level to welcome with open arms all those victims of the war, those refugees who are being bombed. Bombs fall on everyone; they don't sort out. Today, we also supported in the text the passage that insists on the reception of refugees, which must be whole, without any discrimination because bombs do not make the choice between skin colours and origins! In addition, we support and supported all recitals this morning, all calls for a ceasefire and the immediate withdrawal of the Russian army from Ukraine because Ukraine is a sovereign country. Do not dislike Mr Putin, who believes that Ukraine is a manufacture and that the Ukrainian nation does not exist! This is Mr Putin's position! It is the tsarist, chauvinist and nationalist position that we do not share. In fact, Mr Putin used the first twenty minutes of his speech to criticize everything the Soviet Union had done to make modern Ukraine, as it is today, exist. Mr Putin is questioning him. We are opposed to his vision on this point. Ukraine is a sovereign country. Ukraine has the right to have its borders protected. Russia and the Russian army have nothing to do in Ukraine. Today, there is an urgent need for a ceasefire and an immediate withdrawal of Russian troops.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u89	Mr Boukili, I turn to something that you have just stressed in your argument. You condemn the Russian attitude by referring to its Tsarist era. In committee, you had already mentioned this tsarist period as the element that motivated Putin in his aggression, in this imperialist dynamic. I find that, in doing so – I had made the same reflection in committee – you are especially careful not to recall Putin's dynamic, which also finds its roots in this desire to re-establish the borders of the Soviet Union. By referring to czarism, you take care not to question this period of history that the Soviet Union has been. Are you today able to say in the rostrum: yes, there is in Putin's head the will to restore the borders of what the Soviet Empire was?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u90	Thank you for your question. I understand the confusion there may be. But I think I've been pretty clear. It is Putin who opposes the Tsarist vision and the policy of the Soviet Union concerning Ukraine and the former Soviet Union countries. It is he who opposes these two policies. He criticized the way in which the Soviet Union had been created and wanted to restore the borders of the Soviet Union. I'll take his words back. To be clear, I do not agree with what he says. I repeat that it is he who compares Czarist Russia with the Soviet Union. But as far as I'm concerned, I absolutely don't share his vision. In my view, Ukraine is a sovereign country. Russia's border stops at the border with Ukraine. There is no reason why Russia should expand to dominate other countries. This is the position of our party. It is so obvious and so clear that it is not necessary to explain it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u91	Mr Boukili, it is obvious and clear that this is a military aggression. Why are you voting against this amendment? What's wrong with you? I would sincerely like to understand your position. Why do you object to the classification of this unjustified and illegal attack as international humanitarian law? Why don't you accept that this is a military attack?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u92	We accept it. I just said it. We have tabled a motion for a resolution to that effect. We voted in favour of all the demands and recitals that condemn military aggression. I don't understand your question. We have tabled a motion for a resolution. There is no more formal way for a party to make its position known. I am prepared to put it to the vote today and to vote with both hands to say that I strongly condemn this military intervention. I don't know what language I have to say so that it is understood as such! I've said it a dozen times. There is an official text that says so. I don't understand that kind of question! I am continuing my speech, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u93	You don't have much time, Mr. Boukili.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u94	I was interrupted, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u95	But you have far exceeded your speaking time. I'll give you two more minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u96	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u97	You lost four minutes. This time has been counted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u98	But I answered the questions that were asked of me, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u99	I see it. You're not gonna teach me my part. You had already spoken nine minutes when you were interrupted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u100	I quoted two paragraphs before being interrupted, Madam Chair. We supported all calls for a ceasefire and withdrawal of the Russian army from Ukraine and tabled amendments on how to do so. Because I think that's the problem. Questions were raised as to why the PTB did not support this resolution – I would remind you that it is an abstention and not a vote against. We have supported all the passages where military aggression is condemned, those where the Ukrainian population is supported and all those who call for a ceasefire and the withdrawal of the army. Ladies and gentlemen, how can we do this if we want to have peace? I believe that among the measures advanced, particularly sanctions, there is recital M which calls for the sanctions not to be targeted at the population. At the same time, there is a contradiction in the demands: we support and repeat all the measures taken today and among them there are sanctions against the people, whether in Russia, Europe or even Belgium. These sanctions have an impact on the population. We may or may not agree with sanctions, but we are in favour of targeted sanctions. I had tabled an amendment to that effect, aimed at Russian oligarchs, Putin's entourage and all the companies and multinationals involved in the war. They must be punished without pity. But is the Russian people, who are now demonstrating for peace, responsible for this aggression? Is the European people, who are calling for peace today, responsible for this aggression? Why then should we vote for sanctions that will attack the people and spare the leaders, as we have seen in the past?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u101	Madam President, we are in the debate. Therefore, I do not want to deprive the PTB and its Member of their speaking time. I consider that we are in the debate, which makes it possible to clarify the positions. Moreover, you have been very attentive to this, Mr Boukili, in your introduction. That said, what you are saying about economic sanctions against oligarchs, against favourites and against Putin's regime is included in the motion for a resolution that we tabled earlier. Therefore, you generally abstaining on the text is, for me, the worst thing! And even before such a peril, it is a form of cowardice. You must be consistent with the scope of your remarks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u102	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u103	Yes, but what is most important today, given the urgency? You are talking about the sanctions that affect the Russian and Belgian peoples. We also refer to them, not only in our text, but also in the interventions of each other. At this moment, the urgency is to condemn those who drop the bombs. Therefore, in order to condemn globally, we must not draw in the text what is right for you and abandon what is wrong with you; there must be unanimous support for the text! Mr Boukili, once again - and I will tell you now: once too many - you are occupying the ministry of the Word and you are refusing to go beyond your dogmatism to enter into historical action. I'm telling you, Mr. Boukili, and it hurts me to tell you this, by repeating Churchill's sentence: "You wanted to avoid war and dishonor. You have war and you will have dishonor."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u104	Mr Lacroix, I am used to this kind of speech, as you know! I heard the same thing when I opposed the war in Iraq. Are you proud of what happened in Iraq? Mr Lacroix, let me speak, you ask questions, I answer you!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u105	You refer the questions back, Mr. Boukili, so Mr. Lacroix will be given the opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u106	But I haven't even finished my answer! It's amazing, though!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u107	It's a debate!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u108	I just want to develop and I only said four words!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u109	Do you remember the intervention of the then Minister of Defence, who refused to fly over Belgian territory by the Americans? It was André Flahaut, Socialist Minister of Defense. So, your historical revisionism, you keep it to yourself, please!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u110	Mr. Lacroix, are you proud of what happened in Libya? It's the same logic! That is why we are opposed. When, in a resolution, we support the measures that have been taken, such as the delivery of arms, adding war to war, when did it lead to peace? Did this lead to peace in Libya? Today, it is slavery in Libya. Are we proud of what we did in Libya or Afghanistan? Twenty years of war for the Taliban to return to power! These are the same methods that we oppose. There are other solutions! When I talk about the organisation of security and cooperation at European level, we do not propose this just to make "style", we propose this because it has shown its effectiveness in the past! When was this organization put in place, when were the charters resulting from the Helsinki Act and the Paris Charter respected? These charters have reduced tensions and created stability for decades! On the other hand, the policy of sending weapons, adding war to war, punishing... We punished Iraq, and there were a million and a half deaths there! Is that what we want as a policy to prevent war? These methods have shown, in the past, their inefficiency and, above all, their counterproductive side. On the other hand, what we are proposing, like the organisation of European security and cooperation, is what has worked! The Charter of Paris has shown its effectiveness! The diplomatic route is the only way to avoid war!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u111	Mr Boukili, I have something to say about your developments: you compare the conflict in Ukraine with, for example, the conflict in Libya or Afghanistan. However, it should not escape you that on September 11, 2001, we were planning to close the twentieth century. At that time, we were thinking of entering an age of asymmetric warfare. In Libya, it is a popular revolution that is going wrong. In Afghanistan, it was an insurrectional movement that had to be curbed and fought. Here, with the Ukrainian conflict, it is no longer the 21st century. It is the return of the 20th century, or even the 19th century. It's a land war, a war of aggression from one country to another. This has nothing to do with it! And these vaguely pacifistic speeches - not to add war to war, that kind of slogan - I can hear them, I'm sensitive to them, there's no problem. Except that at some point, if you want to plead peace, you must be clear on what peace. Whose peace? Putin's peace is Ukraine's neutrality, Ukraine's disarmament, and a puppet government in Kiev. That is Russia's peace! The peace of Ukraine is the peace that my group supports and, I think, the vast majority of this Parliament. It is a sovereign, independent Ukraine that has the right to choose its own destiny and alliances. And that's exactly what Putin refuses him. Pleasing peace vaguely, abstractly, has no meaning as long as you do not explain what peace you want, what balance, what balance of forces, and what sovereignty for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u112	Mr Ben Achour, I said it again: yes, we are defending a position of peace, of course, for an independent, sovereign and secure Ukraine; we have the necessary security conditions so that Ukraine can survive and even live next to the Russian big brother. That is the situation today!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u113	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u114	Mr Ben Achour, I am busy answering your question. So, peace, yes, to guarantee Ukraine's sovereignty. Of course, that's a condition! To say that peace is to be defended is to bend to Putin's diktat? No! But how can peace be achieved? That's my question! I was not comparing what was happening in Libya, in Afghanistan with what is happening in Ukraine today. What I was comparing is the response to this kind of conflict. Indeed, the systematic response to such conflicts since the Gulf War has always consisted of condemnations, sanctions and interventions. That's always been the case: convictions, sanctions, interventions! What was the result of this? Today, none of these parts of the world are secure. Today, there is no peace in these places of the world. So, if you are as sensitive as I am to lasting peace, do you think that these same methods should be used to act in Ukraine, knowing the record it has given in other countries? No! And it is not naive to say that, Mr Ben Achour, and speaking to you, I am speaking to all the colleagues who have asked questions to that effect. It's not naivety. Naivet is to believe that by widening the war and making it even more complete than the result will lead to peace. It is naive to think that.- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What I say in this gallery, I don't make it up. It is not only the PTB that adopts this position, it is the entire Peace Movement, it is the whole trade union movement, even at European level. The amendments that I tabled this morning, the demands contained in our resolution text, are defended by the Peace Movement. The CNAPD, Pax Christi, Vrede, are European trade unions naive? It is always these people who have always fought the war, because it is always the workers, the people who suffer from the war and not the leaders. [[Applause from the European Democratic Group]] [[)]] That is why it is these people who are right and they are far from naive, because they know very well what war is.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u115	You mustn't be mistaken. This is not a question of condemning or not condemning the war. It is a question of condemning Putin's war! And it is precisely that, by your abstention, you refuse to condemn!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u116	No, I don't! You're wrong! You have to listen, Mr. Ben Achour!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u117	I'm telling you something else, and that's my point of view. At the time of the Russian offensive on Ukraine, I was at the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. There was my Ukrainian colleague, my American colleague, my British colleague and, by video, the Russian colleague, Vice-President of the Duma. His speech was unambiguous: "We are now going to denazify Ukraine and disarm it." It means, "We'll knock down the government and shave the country!" This is exactly what Putin has been busy doing for the past two weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u118	And I strongly condemn that. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u119	I'm just telling you that today obviously - it's obvious to everyone - Vladimir Putin doesn't want to negotiate. It will only negotiate when it destroys the bulk of the country it attacks and then establishes on the ground the most favourable balance of forces to negotiate something. If we don't do anything today to re-establish this balance of forces or at least to make this balance of forces less unbalanced than possible...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u120	Do what?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u121	To do exactly what our Ukrainian colleagues asked us yesterday when we received them by video in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, that is to say to support them with strong sanctions - they are the ones who are calling for them - against Russia and the delivery of arms. They are also asking for a no flight zone.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u122	So you're for the delivery of weapons.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u123	Let's not be naive! From the moment Putin makes the weapons resonate, we must help Ukrainians resist these weapons by fighting Russian troops who are on this ground and who are now destroying entire cities by killing women, children and old people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u124	And you think by sending weapons, you're gonna fix the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u125	It is not by sending flowers to the Ukrainians that you will prevent the Russian tanks from advancing on Kiev! At some point, we have to get out of this kind of naivety.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u126	I'm the one who's naive?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u127	I think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u128	You're saying you have to send weapons to stop the war and I'm the naive one?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u129	I think we have to meet the demands of the Ukrainians. They must be given the means to defend themselves against Russia's barbaric offensive.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u130	Mr Ben Achour, you have just said where the contradiction that justifies our abstention is. As far as we are concerned, we deeply believe that sending weapons will only add war to war and will not solve the problem, but rather amplify it. When I say that, I don't shoot in the pile or face to find out what I'm going to say. I'm referring to history. What have we done in the past? What have been the results? You want to keep doing the same thing. Libyans, Iraqis and Afghans remember quite well what happened. I would not like the Ukrainian people and the European people to live the same. That is the reason for our abstention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u131	Madam President, I would like to make a brief statement. Indeed, this abstention sounds hollow! The way in which you do not meet the objective of this motion for a resolution is unfortunate. The objective, however, is simple, as we have all repeated unisono, is to condemn this invasion, this attack on a democracy, a sovereign country and the self-determination of a people deprived of their freedom.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u132	[[....]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u133	You're not a big deal! There is no alternative in the means you propose. It sounds hollow! Het betekent niets!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u134	Colleagues, on Thursday 24 February, early in the morning, we woke up in another world. After 70 years of peace in Europe there is war again and that between two European countries. The images and testimonies that reach us, of the children's hospital and of the theatre, are shocking and show the brutality and rudeness of this war and of Russian aggression. Mr Boukili, I am not going to say much about it, many of my colleagues have already done so, but we cannot be neutral in wars of this kind. One cannot remain infinitely nuanced. You have made a long statement here with nuances and judgements. They are, however, completely wrong. You're on the wrong side of this conflict. The whole House will adopt this important resolution shortly and your cabal will abstain or vote against it. It is clear which side you are on in this conflict. If there is anything positive about what is happening, it is that the images and the testimonies have finally pierced the European naivety bubble to most people. Out of peace dividend, out of security. The Russian attack is a wake-up call. Today it is Ukraine and it will remain so for a while, but who is next? What country's next? Where does this aggression end? NATO is strong and united. We've never seen that before in the last 70 years. New members are knocking at the door. Countries that have always been neutral are knocking at the door. The European Union absolutely wants to become a geopolitical power. At least that is in Mrs von der Leyen's agenda. Crisis after crisis turned out to have failed, unfortunately, but I think that everyone, both in the European Union and in the Kremlin, is surprised at the fact that there is so much unity within the European Union now. So there is now momentum to work on tomorrow's European defence. The time has come to strengthen the effectiveness of European diplomacy, and I am consciously talking about diplomacy. It is time to shape our own European security architecture. Today's engagements are tomorrow's actions. Today's investment, as I said here last week, is tomorrow's insurance. Insurance is expensive, but it is only when something happens that people are happy to pay them. Tomorrow and tomorrow's engagements, that's the future. The reality is now and it is gloomy. Belgium has been at the bottom of the list for years, just after Luxembourg, when it comes to defence efforts. All government parties in recent decades are responsible for this. However, there is a recovery coming. Just before Russia's invasion of Ukraine, that improvement was achieved. The tandem The Croo-Dedonder found each other. The target was adjusted from 1.24% of GDP to 1.54% of GDP. We are not yet at 2%, we are not yet at 1.75%, the non-nuclear NATO average, but we are on the right track. An effort of 11 billion will be made. These are important investments to ensure our security future. Mr Buysrogge, I was just going to say that it has to be more. That's probably what you're about to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u135	That's right. That fits perfectly with what I'm going to say. Mr Pillen, I feel that it is a matter of listening to my words, but do not look at my actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u136	A bit like the N-VA in the previous government, then, when you delivered the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u137	I think we've agreed on a wonderful package of investments together. You are quite right to call again for efforts here today. You are quite right to argue that the NATO pillar should be placed at the heart of security. It is quite right that you should say what you have to say here. You rejected all of our amendments this morning. In fact, when you yourself tabled an amendment in favour of simply expressing our support for the words of Prime Minister De Croo, you withdrew it on the same day that it was tabled, under pressure from I do not know who. That is a very curious course of action. I can only hope that this is a temporary situation and that this government will announce very clearly very soon that the path will be reached to 2%.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u138	I hope the same, Mr Buysrogge. It seems like you've been browsing my notes, because I was about to say that this is a game changer. The current events are a game changer. Several countries have already done this budgetary exercise. We have gone from 1.24% of GDP to 1.54% of GDP. That's got to be more. I'll get back to you in a minute. In countries such as Spain, Slovakia and the Netherlands, the debate is already under way or a decision has already been taken to move even faster towards that 2% of GDP or even more. Germany, with the most left-wing government in decades, has foreseen 100 billion. They even ordered some F-35s. That was unthinkable until a few months ago. I fear that if we do not make sufficient efforts in the coming years, the integration of our Belgian defence will be compromised, although we are all in favour of this, possibly with the exception of the Communist PVDA-PTB Group, whose paths are incomprehensible. It is about integration with, for example, the Netherlands and our other neighbouring countries. I fear that if the budget for defence is not increased sufficiently, we will be in a situation in which European integration, which our country is so proud of, will also be threatened. In addition to humanitarian aid and strong diplomacy, we must also continue to invest in the defence sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u139	Mr Pillen, I would like to ask you a question. I'm not a pacifist. According to SIPRI, the Stockholm Peace Institute, NATO spends more than $1,000 billion a year. Europe spends USD 211 billion a year, something you undoubtedly know better than I do. Now they have to scare off an army that spends $56 billion a year. That is the Russian budget. So that's 20 times less than the people they actually control now. What would be the difference if the European budget were increased to USD 400 billion? Tell me what the difference is, if you don't even have the guts to set up a no-fly zone against an army of $56 billion, with an army with a budget that's 20 times bigger? Then I do not understand the reasoning that we absolutely need to arm ourselves extra. I can assure you that I am not a member of the PVDA-PTB, which is well known.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u140	We do indeed have to make certain strategic decisions for the Defense Department. I would like to refer to what the Prime Minister said yesterday in this House, in the Committee on Home Affairs, about the national security strategy. Weather was the key word there. The Prime Minister has made it clear that the extra effort which the government has certainly made will probably not be enough and that many European countries in general have gone too far in saving defence. They're the right analysis. It is good that we have a prime minister who clearly identifies matters. Parliament must support him in that. The resolution does the same. Mr Buysrogge, you have lost yourself in the various amendments that have been tabled. A huge number of amendments were put to the vote. The resolution still says that this extra effort on defence needs to be considered. 2021 was a terrible year for our defense, with one crisis after another. We have seen that years and decades of disinvestment have fallen badly and what has happened. The disinvestment must be stopped. We must invest again because we must dare to question the doctrine of the early 2000s and the 1990s, the decade of peacekeeping and the emerging terror. He's got to go on the kick. We have to make choices, return to the highest spectrum of violence with a comprehensive re-launch of heavy firepower on caterpillars, artillery, air defense systems. This government has bought 155 mm artillery again. Air defense systems are in this government's new plans. Those are the things that we are now seeing at work in Russia. This is what we'll do with that extra money. We must dare to question the decision which, in the early 2000s, said goodbye to capacity. This capacity also needs to be re-launched, in addition to investments in new technologies, such as offensive cybersecurity and drones.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u141	NATO now has 20 times more weapons. For nuclear weapons, the ratio is not the same: Russia has 6,000 but NATO has a lot more. You are now asking for additional resources, while NATO has 20 times more resources and does nothing. What bothers me in that entire history of Ukraine is history. I'll tell you clearly why. In 1991 I was already an old guy at that time............................................................................................................................................................ I've been lucky to get through that. Ukraine then became sovereign. Ukraine was allowed to become independent provided it turned in its warheads. That was a question from NATO, that was a question from Europe. That was a gesture for Putin to turn in 1,800 warheads. Ukraine did so in 1994. Ukraine became a sovereign state. Had it been for those warheads today, there was no war. This has been done on the accusation of Europe and on the accusation of NATO. Today, Ukraine is the victim. What do the generals of NATO do? Lots of mayonnaise on the sleeves, but a brown spot in the pants. Mr Pillen, you are now calling for 20 times more weapons to be used to destroy them. Maybe 40 times? If I have twenty times the power to destroy someone, I'm from martial arts. I can beat the opponent to death. Today we are abandoning the case. Why am I specifically saying that to you? Your former party chairman, your former Prime Minister, stood on Maidan Square in 2014 and proudly declared Ukraine's right to join Europe. It's eight years later now, and we're gonna abandon this place. That's why I'm chummy about this case. In large words, the bombing of materials is condemned, but for the rest we are calling for 40 times as many weapons instead of 20 times as many. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u142	Mr Dedecker tells you that we are doing nothing, but that is simply not right. We'll do something. The European Union and NATO are doing something, primarily for their own members but also for Ukraine. The arms supplies are unseen. If, in addition to the strong will of the people, the Ukrainian army can respond to the overwhelming strength of the Russians, it is through the support of the European Union and the other Western NATO powers. So we'll do something. I thought you were stronger last week, too. You were very emotional last week and I always like it when people get emotional in politics because that means that their words come straight from the heart. You then argued for a no-fly zone. Still, apparently. I tell you, Mr Dedecker, with my knowledge of the defense, that you are mistaken. I understand that you keep repeating that emotionally, but it is also my job as a representative of the people to say rationally that people who argue for it are wrong. We currently have four F-16s in Estonia. If we were to turn your plea into reality, we'd have air fights between modern Russian jets in no time, for make no mistake, that's modern jets and our four F-16s. Then we're heading for a total war in Europe. That may be your emotional choice, but I'm not making this choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u143	(...) If those people are in trouble, it is their duty to help them! It is not our duty to stand in a square and use empty words to do nothing afterwards. That is what this is about, Mr Pillen!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u144	Luckily, I wasn't there in 2014. I've been to Kiev a long time ago. So I'm gonna leave that all on the man who was there at the time. You'll have to ask him again, since you're no doubt familiar with him. So if you're saying we're not doing anything, that's not true. If you say we have so much more, that's right. But what we have, we have in multiples. We've got too much of everything. It didn't play into each other's hands. We have too many different types. That is the problem. That is why, Mr Dedecker, it is so important that last week, in the Versailles Castle, a historic place called the European Heads of State or Government came together and said that they must, and I quote,'really invest more and better in defence capabilities and in innovative technologies'.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u145	Mr Pillen, I would like to take the floor for a small budget debate which, unfortunately, will not be emotional but will be rational. I was also in the committee this morning and I found it interesting to see how the Open VLD set a very clear and quantified target for investments in Defence, but that amendment was removed. Now you say that it is still as clear, because the Prime Minister says very clearly that what has been agreed in the government is probably not enough. I do not think that is so clear, hence my question. In fact, I have been particularly sorry all afternoon that the Foreign Minister is not here. The Minister of Defence is not present either, let alone the Prime Minister, while we want to send a strong signal. Special thanks to the Secretary of State for the Budget for her presence. I regret that your fellow ministers are not here, Madam Secretary of State, but that has an advantage: the expertise on the budget is at the table. You can clearly state what is on the table in the government and tell which party has put what on the agenda. Mr Pillen, with regard to the discussions that have already been completed on the adaptation of multiannual investments in defence, which the Prime Minister himself says are probably not enough, I assume that you will not only say everything in Parliament's gallery, but that you have also done so. I am sure Mrs De Bleeker can confirm whether or not that has happened. That is my question to the Secretary of State, but my question to you, Mr Pillen, is whether you can quantify what the Open VLD is going for.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u146	It would be very unwise of me to quantify this now after the Prime Minister's statement yesterday. If you think I will tell you now what I think the objective should be, then you are mistaken. A certain political fact happened yesterday, for the second time in three weeks. We have said that we are going from 1.24 % to 1.54 % of GDP, on our way to the 2% you know very well from your experience. I've seen you listen carefully. I have just told you that the non-nuclear average is already 1.75 %, so we are not even going to get there at 1.54 %. If I see now that day after day NATO allies say that they are accelerating to 2%, to 2.5 % and now even to 3%, then that will increase 1.54 % of GDP. That makes sense. That's math. I'm not a great mathematician, but I understand that. That will increase even further, so we must also dare to take that line. I'll keep repeating that. I am a member of the majority and of the same party as the Secretary of State for the Budget, but I will continue to repeat this in this House. Your colleague next to you, who is also following closely, knows that from me. But now quantifying that, there are, of course, limits to what you can ask me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u147	I don't think so. You're standing in the gallery as a Member of Parliament of Open Vld. I'm assuming the Open Vld knows what she wants to do. We know what we want to do. We want to go at least to that 2 %. Mr Pillen, if you'd like, I can tell you some great history about the fall of that government. A certain minister, Mr Bellot, then stopped some signatures to carry out political appointments. Soit, I'm going back to the rationality of the debate. You are speaking today as a Member of Parliament of Open Vld. You are neither a member of the government nor the spokesman of a minister, you are standing there as an Open Vld'er. Surely I can assume that your party knows what it is aiming at, what budget at what time? That's a simple question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u148	Mr Loones, I have told you that we must at least move towards the average and that the average will be adjusted in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u149	On what time?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u150	As soon as possible. We must return to investment in that highest spectrum of violence, which will be a break with the doctrine at the beginning of the 2000s, which you confirmed with your party, even in your then position as Minister of Defence, even if you carried out that task only for a month. The median doctrine was an error from the vision and philosophy of events in the 1990s. That was absolutely justifiable, because it is always dangerous in politics to judge past events with facts of today, so we should not make that mistake, but in view of the current events in Europe, we should dare to question the choice of this doctrine. We haven't done that so far. However, the Prime Minister spoke clearly yesterday, although it was unclear in your view, but the Prime Minister's words are not easy. I note, moreover, that you are now also reflecting on what we have done together in the previous government. Maybe that wasn't the way it was supposed to be. We should have made an increase by then, we should have already questioned the median capacity, but that did not happen, not by your party, nor by mine.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u151	I note that unfortunately there is no clear answer to the questions of which target, what amount and what time limit. It is interesting, however, that Mr Ducarme of the MR clearly committed himself in committee this morning to the 2% for 2030, even explicitly referring to the proposal for a resolution. It is a pity that you do not give the same clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u152	Madam President, I am not Mr. Ducarme. So I cannot invoke a personal fact, but I was also present in committee this morning. If you had listened to my speech earlier, you would have understood that what we want, what we need to commit ourselves to, is obviously to fill tomorrow at least the minimum investment of 2% of GDP. I also said, the military programming law on which we worked together at the time – after that, we know how it turned out – was good. It was a good initiative. The evidence is the government's follow-up. I say it and I will redirect it, we will have these debates in the Defence Committee as well. Unfortunately, since the geopolitical situation has changed, it will still be necessary to be much more demanding and more effective in the years to come. It's obvious! Mr. Ducrame repeated it. I repeated it. We repeat this and we will still have these debates in committee, certainly in view of the situation we are in.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u153	Mr Pillen, that is now a clear answer from an MR politician, which we must go to 2%, as soon as possible. It reiterates what Mr Ducarme said this morning and what you are not saying today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u154	I don't think you're listening properly. I have already said three times that the average will rise from 1.54% to 2%. By the way, the average will be 2 % in a few months' time. So it's very clear. Mr Loones, I am jealous of you for two reasons. First of all, you have the freedom to explain what you want from the opposition. You do that in a lot of files. Secondly, you were once Secretary of Defense, and I like that job myself. Anyway, I don't have the luxury of saying here that it will and should be 2%. However, I say very clearly that there must be an increase. Mr Biden will be coming to Brussels next week. That is a unique moment and gives a very important signal. He doesn't just show up at a European summit. He does not come to have a cup of coffee or eat a Brussels waffle, he will make it very clear that all European countries have to do their bit. Belgium too will have to put its money into the bag. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your constructive progress. The present proposal for a resolution is an important start. I look forward to the activities of the Defense Commission. It has been too long since we had a good committee meeting. It is very important for the government to come forward with the ambitious investment plan that it decided on two weeks ago. Then we can have the debate very quickly about these additional investments, preferably in what is useful for the highest spectrum of violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u155	Madam President, allow me to make three further comments. Mr Dedecker, good friend, we will continue our debate online later, but please tell us that I completely disagree with you if NATO did not do anything and abandoned everyone. NATO has expressed explicit support from the outset with words and also with actions to the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian government. We shouldn't send troops. The Ukrainians have enough troops. There are millions of men and women in Ukraine - 20% of the armed forces are women, even though women, unlike men, should not stay in the country - who want to spill their blood every day for the war to fight for our values and our liberal democracy. They want to fight for their country, for their pride, for their honor. What do they need? A no-fly zone would be very useful. Emotionally, I say yes, but rationally, the answer is no. The Russians are very good at ballistics and anti-aircraft weapons and much less in fighter planes. I have seen all the Russian anti-aircraft weapons and anti-aircraft guns in Crimea, Belarus and the Donbas. If tomorrow we send our F-16 pilots, our boys and girls from Kleine-Brogel and Florennes, over there, that's gonna be horrible. Are we prepared to do so? You say yes. I don't know yet. Moreover, this would escalate the situation where a great war in Europe is almost inevitable. Guaranteeing a no-fly zone is therefore not a good idea for our party at the moment, but we evaluate every day. It's another matter if Putin deploys nuclear weapons tomorrow. Does it mean we shouldn't do anything? No. They have armed forces. What do they need to make it as difficult as possible for the Russians and to book some victories? First of all, they need good and solid intelligence. Who provides the intelligence on the Russians' troop movements? Us, NATO. In particular, Anglo-Saxon members of NATO provide daily intelligence to Ukrainian troops. If the Ukrainian troops manage to make it terribly difficult for the Russians to block Kiev's surroundings, it is thanks, among other things, to our good intelligence on the movement of troops on the ground. For example, when Ukrainians manage to regularly interrupt the logistics supply by constantly bombarding and disabling transports of food, petroleum and other necessary ingredients for a war like ammunition, that is thanks to our information. What do the Ukrainians need? They need guns. Thanks to the weapons supplied by Belgium and other countries, we are making it terribly difficult for the Russians to win and make Putin crazy, at least as I heard him last night. So NATO doesn't do anything? No. Do people think we're doing too little? Yeah, right. But is it wise to install a no-fly zone over Ukraine tomorrow? Not in my eyes. That would lead to something we shouldn't start with. As far as the 2% investment is concerned, we are at 1.1 % at the moment. We're going to 1.54 % next year. Mr Di Rupo had committed himself to achieving 2% by 2024. But in 2024, we are going to go to 1.2 % or 0.8 % of GDP that is 450 billion. So that means 3.8 billion a year in structural budget, not investment, too little. Those are huge amounts. At the moment Belgium remains a huge problem. I have tabled a motion for a resolution today to achieve 2%. As a result, we will continue the debate in Parliament. I am pleased with the opinion of Open Vld and I am convinced at the same time that a lot of massaging and convincing work will be needed on the part of a number of other parties. Let us try to increase our budget structurally by 2030 2% of GDP. That's our position. We are still doing a shamefully bad job and we must learn lessons from it. We just don't have a choice. We're standing with our backs against the wall. We are in Putin's pike, we are paying for his war against the West. It is an improbable cynicism of how hard we pay our naivety in cash. Finally, President Zelenski spoke yesterday before the U.S. Congress. Next Thursday there will be the NATO summit and all the leaders of the West will be here. President Biden will also be there, as Mr Pillen said. It would be nice if President Zelenski could address the Chamber of Representatives next Thursday. I hope we can do this. I will send a letter to you together with Mr De Roover. I have had some contacts over the last few hours and days and I hope that this is possible and that there is a will in the Chamber to give the Ukrainian President the opportunity to bring a video message here to our people, our parliamentarians and our democracy. That would be a very important signal, from which we can only learn. What he experiences as the leader of his country and his people is terrible. In the coming hours and days, I will see if it is possible, possibly through the ambassador, to have the President of Ukraine give a speech here next Thursday. It is then a symbolic day, because it is the day of the extra NATO summit and it would be an ideal opportunity for the President himself to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u156	Mr Francken, I have already said that I am not a warmaker, but anyone who does not know history does not understand the present. I've been through the time when we learned to get under the banks at school, because then there was the Cuban crisis. At some point, ships left Russia for Cuba and told the Americans that they would drop the bomb on them if they went any further. The Russians are reversed. Mr De Vriendt, you may also listen, you will learn something. We've been through a war, we've been through a Hitler occupying Sudetenland and the Czech Republic. It wasn't until Churchill showed up. I used Churchill's boltade over the crocodile. We have, with Germany and NATO in the lead, fed the crocodile in the hope that we would be the last to be eaten. I think it's almost time now. It's someone who destroyed a city like Grozny, with 100,000 victims, someone who killed the Chechen people. Now we're selling sympathy with Marioepol. We're doing very little. You're talking about Transnistria. You're talking about Georgia. You're talking Ossetia. You're talking about the red line the Obama pulled in Syria and the like. If one does not want to listen, one must sometimes feel it. Then you've got to have guts. I blame you for that. We will continue this discussion elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u157	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is very clear that we have taken the side of the Ukrainian Government and the Ukrainian people in this conflict. It is they who are faced with a foreign aggressor trying to occupy their territory and bombard and exterminate the population. These are terrible war crimes that go against all international law. That is what we do not want and cannot accept. We have therefore expressly chosen not to remain neutral in this conflict. It is therefore very good that, through this resolution and through this text, our Parliament is in a very clear and unambiguous position today. Yesterday I said in committee that it would be a good idea for all parties to take an unambiguous position on this matter today. However, that does not appear to be the case. I listened very carefully to the PVDA Group. Members of the PVDA, you condemn and repeat the Russian invasion, but the problem is that you are not going to get any further. Your attitude is that we must remain de facto neutral in this conflict. The Ukrainian people must not be given the means to defend themselves against an aggressor who is many times greater and who mercilessly bombs their innocent citizens. I have read your motion for a resolution. It says that humanitarian aid must be provided to the Ukrainian people, as Belgium is already doing, but no economic aid or economic aid, for example. When you voted in the European Parliament, your fellow party members voted against a EUR 1.2 billion European economic aid package for Ukraine. Nor should economic sanctions be imposed on Russia, arguing that these sanctions may also affect the local population. However, the economic power base in Russia is fully built around the oligarchs, who have all the power there. If we do not impose economic sanctions, which do indeed have consequences, then the economic base that President Putin is using to wage the war will not be affected. This so-called neutrality, which is then advocated, leads the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian government to be mercilessly handed over to the Russian regime. That is expressly not our position. That is the difference between our parties. We support the Belgian position to help Ukraine with humanitarian aid, with medical assistance and, where possible, with defensive weapons. For us, it is very important for the Chamber to be regularly informed and actively involved in the developments in that conflict, especially when it comes to the military commitment to that conflict, and certainly if that commitment would change. We support the European Union, which has expressed a united and strong response. The economic sanctions imposed on Russia are indeed heavy, but they do not miss their impact. They have only one goal, namely to make the price of war for the Russian regime and President Putin as high as possible, so that only a cease-fire is still an option. We hope that the ceasefire will come soon and that the war will end as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u158	My question is very brief. You say that Vooruit supports the delivery of defensive weapons.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u159	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u160	Then what are defensive weapons?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u161	The weapons the government sent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u162	You think an antitank weapon is a defensive weapon?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u163	We talked about weapons that the Ukrainian army can use to defend itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u164	Wait a minute, that's interesting. I don't know that term. Because the Ukrainians are being attacked and their country is being invaded by a foreign aggressor, every weapon we have supplied or potentially will deliver is a defensive weapon according to your definition.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u165	They get those weapons to defend themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u166	So it's about guns to defend themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u167	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u168	Okay, for a moment, I thought there was something like a defensive weapon that one can't use in an offensive way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u169	No, no, guns to defend themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u170	That's very broad, you know that, don't you? I saw the list President Biden announced yesterday. He wants to send Patriots and drones. Defensive weapons. Great, okay. That is quite clear, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u171	The European Member States have promised a great deal of military and other aid, but better coordination at European level is necessary for Vooruit. Belgium is already making more efforts in the field of defence, but better European cooperation is a must in this area. Mr Dedecker, you have just quoted figures. I have other figures, so perhaps we have consulted another study. Yesterday in committee, I said that all European Member States spend EUR 352 billion on military expenditure, and Russia spends EUR 67 billion. What is also important is that, according to a study by the European Parliament, an estimated EUR 26.4 billion is wasted every year by doubling, over-capacity and barriers to procurement. Working side by side with 27 armies of Member States is therefore not efficient either. Cooperation is the way forward, because it is possible to do more with the same expenditure, hence a plea for that element to be included in the debate on defence expenditure. It is important to keep repeating that this war is a war of Vladimir Putin and not of ordinary Russians. This is also important for the Russian people present in our country today. So there is hope in a different way of future cooperation between the European Union and Russia. We therefore believe that a political and diplomatic bilateral European and multilateral strategy is needed which can lead to lasting peace with the Russian people in the longer term. We are also pleased that this has been included in the motion for a resolution. Let us not forget that the Ukrainian people are today suffering the terrible consequences of the war. It is fantastic that our own people want to put their hands up to help the refugees. For us, every level of government must assume its responsibility to support the people in this, but it is particularly important for our group to pay great attention to preventing, detecting and tackling mechanisms of exploitation and trafficking of Ukrainian refugees coming here. There will be very poignant stories of abuse, but Mr Segers was very clear about this just now. This is important for our group. In addition, we must also help those who have decided to stay there or have no other choice because they cannot flee. Both groups deserve our support. It is essential that aid can also reach the disadvantaged population. We are pleased that the government and our Minister for Development Cooperation have already released EUR 5 million to support the international partners we work with. The humanitarian component is therefore of particular importance to us. The motion for a resolution before us will, of course, be adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u172	This is, absolutely, a committed speech! Madam President, on 24 February last year, history will remain a sad and grim day at the beginning of this 21st century. It was that day that Putin launched his troops, tanks and aircraft, his missiles, which he had amassed for months on the borders of Ukraine against his neighbour, his brother, against the Ukrainian people. The virtue of our resolution is to win the consent of all the groups in Parliament to condemn without any ambiguity Russia's aggression against Ukraine. Finally, almost all groups, since, once again, the PTB has proved to be in itself and has not voted on this resolution with the other groups. When it comes to talking, it is good, but when it comes to concrete acts of condemnation, we see the nature of the PTB in foreign policy and especially in relation to Russia. It is true that the virtue of this resolution is to support the substantial diplomatic, humanitarian and military efforts of our country. In this regard, I would like from the outset to welcome the immense generosity of the Belgian people. It is a boost to the shock that represents for our country, but also for the whole of human civilization, the unthinkable outrage that this war, this unjustified and barbaric invasion, desired by a conqueror to satisfy his dreams of empire represents. I am pleased that we are adopting this text relatively quickly. There have been discussions in this regard. I recall that Ukraine has been attacked and invaded because it shares our values and ideals of democracy, freedom and the rule of law. It was invaded, not because it could not join NATO – the latter had closed the door to it since 2007 – but because it was not there and it was alone, facing Russia. We had announced loud and clear that we would not come to help him. From then on, there was nothing to deter Putin's Russia from invading Ukraine, whose independence and sovereignty Russia had recognized for 30 years, like the entire international community. Putin claimed to free Ukraine from neo-Nazis and drug addicts, to protect Russian-speaking people from genocide. It was grotesque! It is all the more grotesque coming from a dictator who does not hesitate to commit war crimes, ethnic cleansing, the repression of his own civil society, who does not hesitate to arrest his own children when they protest against the war. As I said, the Russians and Ukrainians considered themselves brothers. Putin succeeded in creating hatred, where fraternity existed. He thought he could divide Ukrainian society. It has united its population as never before, whether it is Russian-speaking or Ukrainian-speaking, whether it is from the East or the West, whether it is young or old. Putin, we are told, has already lost in the face of history, in the face of law, in the face of his own desire for power, in the face of his own people, whom he impoverishes and manipulates in an attempt to turn them into mere "zombies", in the words of this courageous and extraordinary journalist, Marina Ovsyannikova. He also lost to these families of young Russian soldiers whom he sent to be killed in this absurd war. The question that is asked today is how many more lives he will carry in his madness. How can I stop him? How can we protect and relieve the Ukrainian population and resistance? A range of economic, diplomatic and military instruments have been deployed and are being implemented by our country, by Europe, by NATO, by the United Nations and by the OSCE. These instruments deserve to exist. They're important. They're substantial. But it must also be admitted that they still have to demonstrate their effectiveness. In some respects, our motion for a resolution falls short of what could make a difference. A request is made urgently. This is the first request of the Ukrainians. That is the most urgent request. Today, existential demand is air exclusion. Close the sky . This request was made to me day and night, every hour by refugees, doctors, military officials and Members of Parliament. I'm thinking about the ones we talked about earlier. They begged me to shut the sky. To offer this possibility of air exclusion is indeed a dangerous extension of the conflict. The debate has just taken place on this point. NATO forces should be engaged to enforce this exclusion zone. And Putin, knowing our fears, does not hesitate to shake this risk of global burning. So yes, we must act decisively to stop the bloodbath, but we must also act with cold blood not to aggravate it. In my view, therefore, this option cannot be initiated today. But it will still take one day for us to define red lines in relation to what Putin can still do in Ukraine. So far, we have not defined them. We have never specified what we would still accept: bombed cities, sieges, deliberately bombed civilians, and children bombed on purpose. We never set any red lines. I think one day they'll have to be fixed. Because we have never been able to create a possible deterrent to the crimes committed today. But there is an alternative to the closure of the sky by the Alliance's aviation and missiles. As I have mentioned several times in committee, there is the supply of air defence weapons. I am surprised by the rejection of the amendments that we tabled with our colleagues at the Challenge on short-range air defence. I'd like to understand what we're at risk. I'd like to understand why we're not answering the Ukrainians' pleas. I understand that the supply of these defence weapons could - this is a term that has been used by my colleagues in the MR and the PS in various places - be considered a belligerent posture. Colleagues, I would like to refer to my personal experience and my personal history. We are all made of lessons that we are trying to learn from the past. I was the coordinator of the humanitarian operations of Médecins Sans Frontières in April 1994 in Rwanda. I saw the Rwandan genocide happen in front of me. I was there and I think I was one of the first - we can find this in the archives - to call this crime genocide. I called for the intervention of the international community, which took months to call this crime genocide. She didn't intervene. United Nations troops have withdrawn from Rwanda. Many years later, we set up a commission, where we apologized for doing so. I was also with General Morillon in Srebrenica, this Muslim enclave in the former Yugoslavia, when she was under the fire of Milosevic's troops. I saw the crimes committed there. I saw the Dutch peacekeepers leave this enclave when these crimes were being perpetrated and when all the adults went through the weapons. I saw, too, that the Security Council knew exactly what was happening. Madeleine Albrigth had in front of them aerial photographs of the crimes that were being committed. Again, we didn't do anything, we turned our eyes away and let them do it. It took 150,000 lives in Bosnia for NATO to intervene, and the war was over in three weeks. In 2014, I was in northern Iraq, near the Yezidis, when they were subjected to this genocide that we unanimously condemned here. What I would not like, ladies and gentlemen, is that, in ten or fifteen years' time, our successors should open a committee of inquiry and apologize for actions that we could have done that would have prevented major crimes that are currently being committed in Ukraine. I know what limits we must not cross, but I also know that we can do actions that are not belligerent, but that are, on the contrary, intended to prevent a bloodbath and are aimed at forcing Putin's army not to exert this terror it is currently exerting on civilian populations. Yes, I think we must respond to this request and plan B, since we cannot intervene directly, since we do not want to fly over the Ukrainian sky. It is therefore important that Ukrainians hold the right weapons to act. These are short-range weapons that we store. There are twenty-four of them. According to my information, they're in Brasschaat. We also have ammunition. Moreover, these weapons are supplied by other Alliance countries and are indispensable at this time in the light of this aerial terror. We know that in all current conflicts, the one who controls the sky controls the conduct of war. And so yes, I really think that we must respond to this request from Ukraine, which is not an unreasonable demand, which is no different, in the end, from the demand you have given to deliver anti-tank missiles. I remind you, in a tank, there are three men. An anti-tank missile is therefore a potentially lethal weapon than an anti-aircraft missile, in which there is only one man, and that this anti-aircraft missile will save more lives than the anti-tank missile. I therefore do not understand why a less lethal weapon with greater effectiveness, with a short range, which is only a defence weapon, could not be delivered to Ukraine, which is now demanding it with arms and cries. It is for this reason that, together with our colleagues at DéFI, who are not going to war either, we believe that this must be done today. Because unlike the PTB, I don't think we can defend these human lives with drugs and biscuits. I've done this for a whole part of my life, and I know that at some point, you have to be able to defend yourself against terror other than through medication and biscuits. We must be able to do this through defence weapons. That is why we are resubmitting this amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u173	Mr Dallemagne, on the one hand, your time has expired and, on the other hand, Mr Francken wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u174	Madam President, Mr Dallemagne, your personal story was very interesting and touched me. I didn't know you'd been through all that. I know you know a lot about that. We have also been sitting on these benches together for a long time. I don't see you as some kind of warmaker at all. I have heard that you were mentioned this morning in committee. It scared the hell out of me. I thought it was about me, because people say that about me sometimes. I'm absolutely not. If the left side even starts to label you as a warbler, I don't remember, then everyone is a warbler. It is therefore quite absurd to use that word. And actually, excuses are in order. Whoever describes you as a warbearer does offend you. I'm glad you got that straightened out. You're talking about installing a no-fly zone. You say this must be done by delivering anti-aircraft guns. We had Mistrals, we now have almost nothing of anti-aircraft guns. That's the problem. We still have a few, but they are quite old and have been in stock for a long time. We didn't order any new ones. We should have. We certainly need to do the same. Are you also for installing a no-fly zone by sending your own fighter jets over there? After all, a no-fly zone cannot be installed by using only anti-aircraft guns. That's not entirely clear to me. Your comparison doesn't work either. The genocide in Rwanda was terrible, but nobody had a big nuclear button there. The same applies to Srebrenica. With regard to the Jezidis, IS had no nuclear weapons. Fortunately, because IS would have been able to use a nuclear weapon in an attack in Europe. Here we are on a completely different level, as you know. Here we are in an incredibly daring adventure as we go effectively to maintaining a no-fly zone with the deployment of fighter jets. Without fighter jets one does not create a no-fly zone above Ukraine. That country is far too big for that. We need firepower in the air for that. One can use anti-aircraft guns to shoot as much as possible out of the sky. However, if the West is going to create a no-fly zone over Ukraine, we must also engage our F-16s, F-35s and so on. Then there is someone there who is reasonably radicalising and thinks reasonably extremist and fascist. I do not often say the latter because fascism is very often called here. I have often been accused of being a fascist. People who say that are too stupid to answer. However, what I heard from Mr Putin yesterday is really fascist talk. He's talking about ethnic cleansing. He wants to purify the fifth column of Russians abroad, purification. Oh my god . I think that guy's in a psychological mode where the big red button might still be an option for him. I therefore believe that the comparisons with the war in Yugoslavia, the Balkans, Srebrenica, Central Africa or even Iraq really do not exist. I believe this is of a completely different order.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u175	Mr Franken, thank you for your speech. You may not have listened to the beginning of my speech, but I share your point of view. Today, I believe that it would indeed be unreasonable to set up a no-fly zone, in relation to Putin's madness, in relation to the danger it poses to international peace. That said, he's been playing with our fears from the beginning. The mere fact that it has, at some point, agitated the nuclear threat should be seen as the fact that it has exceeded all the red lines. We cannot live in the future in a world where every time we disagree with Putin, whenever he cannot implement his plans, he will shake the nuclear threat. This is a real existential problem for our security in the future, which must be posed as such. I think we need to get rid of this character who dared to make this threat. Today, that would probably be unreasonable. What I have said, on the other hand, is that since the beginning of this conflict, we have never said what we consider to be intolerable. He always says so. But we never said so. We will therefore continue to see crimes on a day-to-day basis, which are probably becoming more and more important. We must see today's news report of the press company on Marioupol and these trenches in which we throw corpses of children in dozens, which were bombed by Putin's air force. We have absolutely no red lines. At some point, you have to think about that, too. What, for us, would be intolerable? You said that earlier, by the way. You mentioned the nuclear threat. It's a red line. But there may be others. No, so I'm not arguing for a no-fly zone today. Yes, I plead for air defence weapons, even if they are less effective, even if they will not, for example, prevent the bombing of the military base on the Lviv side, which has been hit by missiles from Russian territory. But they will, perhaps, allow the Ukrainian defence to rebalance the balance of forces somewhat, to have some more chance of surviving and, above all, to avoid the bombing of civilian populations. That's the priority. I will conclude by paying tribute to the Ukrainian resistance. We would not be here today to discuss our support for Ukraine if Putin's plans had been fulfilled, if he had been able to crush the Ukrainian resistance in a few days and put a puppet and vassal government in place of Volodymyr Zelensky. He could not realize it, because Ukraine showed its bravery, its incredible courage in David's fight against Goliath. His people and soldiers deserve our admiration. They deserve real support. They deserve to be part of our European family. They deserve to be effectively protected today, tomorrow, in an alliance that ensures its protection, its freedom, its democracy, the destiny that its own people choose. Glory to Ukraine! Slava Ukraini!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u176	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is 17 March 2022, just three weeks after Russia's decision to violate the most basic rules of international law by militarily attacking Ukraine. For nearly a month, many battles have been fought. Cities have been buried but, above all, lives have been stolen. And that is precisely the sad price of war. It is an intolerable price that was recalled by the Ukrainian parliamentarians that we had the opportunity to hear yesterday in committee. They told us in the eye: "The Putin Russians deliberately kill civilians, including children. They destroy everything in their passage without respecting any rule of international humanitarian law." From the beginning, Ukraine has shown admirable courage, beating its body and soul to protect its territory and population. But Ukraine or Russian resistance cannot be the only ones to show their courage. It's our duty to all of us. If our country has positioned itself fairly quickly in the direction of a firm condemnation of Russia and the imposition of sanctions against it. Although it has provided humanitarian aid but also military weapons to Ukraine, it is still that the situation on the ground is only getting worse. So this is the sign that more needs to be done. To adopt a motion for a resolution that specifically asks our Government to act is the least of all, and if it has taken some time, Parliament has finally come to a more or less unanimous agreement, which I too regret, on a number of requests. This text has a number of great qualities: the demands for solidarity and support for the Ukrainian people, the call for an immediate ceasefire and respect for international humanitarian law, the call to work at diplomatic level to open safe humanitarian corridors or the call to work at European level on measures to establish a mechanism for solidarity and sharing the effects of Western sanctions. We will of course vote on it. Unfortunately, however, he also has shortcomings. Essential elements could have made a difference. First of all, I am thinking of the need to condemn the war crimes committed by Russia in Ukraine before the International Criminal Court. If the motion for a resolution actually asks the Belgian State to support the Criminal Court in the challenges it faces in investigating the situation in Ukraine, it is silent on the legal characterization of the acts of Russia which should be tried before this Court. Ladies and gentlemen, I really regret this prudence. We cannot delay these acts, nor the content, nor the need for them to be dealt with before the International Criminal Court. The bombing of cities and more widely of civilian populations, as well as the siege of several towns such as Kharkiv, Marioupol, Mykolaiv and Kiev, constitute acts that violate international humanitarian law and, more specifically, war crimes for which the International Criminal Court has jurisdiction. Secondly, while the motion for a resolution does indeed call for an intensification of the existing partnership between the European Union and Ukraine, it does not contain any concrete commitment in this respect. We stay in symbolism. Another point on which this proposal really lacks ambition is that of Belgian Defence. I am not going to relaunch the debate on the 2% here, but still. If we want to revalue it and give it all the place that must be its own, it also and above all goes through an increase in its budget. That is why, together with Mr Dallemagne, it seemed essential to us to make a clear request: to honour the commitment made at the NATO Summit in Cardiff this year to increase the defence budget to 2% of its GDP. Not only did the majority reject this amendment from the back of the hand, but it also took three steps backwards from its original request, asking, (I quote): "to conduct the broadest reflection on Belgium's defence expenditure." Excuse me, but on this point, I think it's no longer time for reflection! Finally, and this is my main regret, my colleague Dallemagne has talked a lot about it, but I will push the nail: the rejection of your request to respond positively to the request of the Ukrainian authorities to deliver man-portable air defence systems. Ukraine is asking for this clearly, without taboo: their sky must be closed to Russian aviation. As we know, we cannot - this has just been debated - intervene ourselves. We have, however, within our Defence, portable anti-aircraft weapons systems. Ukraine has been imploring us to provide it with this type of weapon since the invasion began. Even yesterday, the Ukrainian Members of Parliament heard in our committee called for the provision of anti-aircraft missiles. I regret the rejection of this request. So this text is not perfect. We have not left our motion for a resolution, which explains this, but it has the great merit of being there. And so, let there be no ambivalence, especially with regard to our colleagues at the PTB! Desmond Tutu said, "If you choose to be neutral in a situation of injustice, you are on the side of the oppressor." In the face of the attack, of the Russian aggression, of the martyrdom of cities like Mariupol, of the bombings in Kiev, there is no compromise possible, there is no neutrality possible, there is no abstention possible, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u177	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u178	* * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip169x.u179	The vote on these amendments will take place at the request of the PVDA-PTB Group, divided vote on recitals D, E, S and V; items I.1, I.2, I.5, II.1, III.1, III.2, III.3, IV.4, IV.5, IV.6, IV.10, IV.11, IV.12, IV.17, IV.18, IV.20, and the vote on the whole. The vote on the amendments will take place at a later date; at the request of the PVDA-PTB Group, the split vote on recitals D, E, S and V; points I.1, I.2, I.5, II.1, III.1, III.2, III.3, IV.4, IV.5, IV.6, IV.10, IV.11, IV.12, IV.17, IV.18, IV.20.; and the vote on the whole. Given the daylight saving time and technical requirements, I suggest you take a ten-minute break. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting Thursday, March 17, 2022 at 7.20 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Thursday 17 March 2022 at 7.20 p.m.
