ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u1	Mr President, my first question is in fact already dated, as the file is evolving. That's why I'm concentrating on the second question. Madam Minister, yesterday the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control (FANC) issued its opinion on what decisions should be taken and what actions should be taken to enable the nuclear reactors Objective 4 and Tihange 3 to be used longer than planned. That opinion contains a number of remarkable things. First of all, the FANC proposes to weaken the current safety rules. It is remarkable that a regulator who has to monitor safety wants to weaken his own regulations. In practical terms, the safety measures necessary for renewal must in principle be completed before the life of the nuclear power plants is extended. That's the logic itself. By calling this into question, the FANC reverts to its previous position, namely that there can be no extension if not all the necessary security investments have taken place before the end of the legal life. I am all the more surprised because the FANC also states that "an unknown safety problem can't be ruled out." In this context, with nuclear power plants of 40 years old, I really do not think it is a good idea to relax safety rules. I hope you agree. Of course, I want to know how you see it, because there can be no question of putting safety at risk for us. Either the extension is timely and secure, or it is too late for an extension. A second notable point is the reaction of ENGIE. In its opinion, the FANC makes it crystal clear that ENGIE's cooperation is a crucial condition, while ENGIE clearly states that it does not want it to. This confirms what we have said on several occasions, namely that not the government, but ENGIE Electrabel decides whether or not there will be a nuclear exit. The multinational has more power and control over our energy policy than the government. The FANC's proposal to relax its own safety rules does not come as a surprise to us, by the way. It's not falling out of the sky. After all, it was one of the five conditions that ENGIE advanced a few weeks ago to allow the lifetime extension. One of these five conditions was the approximation of legislation and the provision of an economic framework in order to obtain sufficient subsidies to guarantee profits. Madam Secretary, how do you view the FANC's opinion? What additional steps does the government intend to take in response to the FANC's opinion?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u2	Madam Secretary, what is the status of the file? As far as the FANC's opinion is concerned, I do not see any cause for jubilation, as some do. I do not think there is much news in it. One could look positively and assume that there are now several options, but I also read between the rules about an easing of the safety rules. I have reservations about that. In France, some reactors will be out of service until 2023. This is also about the reliability of our energy production. As I said, I would like to know the state of play in the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u3	Mr President, I deliberately did not put a question on the FANC report. I believe that security questions are rather a question for Minister Verlinden and not so much for Minister Van der Straeten. However, there are a number of other things I would like to get on the agenda. First and foremost, a decision had to be taken at the end of December on the further route for the nuclear or non-nuclear trip. It was then reported that the Council of Ministers would take a decision on this matter on the same day. However, there has been no further communication, although it is very important for us to know exactly what has been decided, and what the next steps are in the whole process. We have also heard and heard from the press that the decision of 23 December also called for a report to be submitted by 17 January, not only because of the FANC, but also because of the Energy DG. It had to list the actions needed to activate the so-called plan B. The two elements raise a number of questions. A first question is whether the exact decision of 23 December on the route for the core exit can be communicated? What elements of that decision were changed or supplemented after the press conference you gave together with the Prime Minister? The press conference also did not refer to CO2 targets in the ETS sector. However, I have heard that there is a passage about this. Does the final decision contain a specific mandate in this respect? I understand that you will be discussing this as well. Was the Energy DG's paper delivered effectively yesterday? What are the main actions required within your competence package? Can you also share this analysis with Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u4	Mr President, Minister, it is a pity that we have never formally seen the detailed content of the compromise of 23 December as a Member of Parliament. You will think that we should listen to the press conference, but it is not always so technically correct. I have put a question about one of the assignments given. The FPS Economy, the CREG and Fluxys had to carry out a new study on Belgium's energy independence in the short, medium and long term. We know that you are in favour of a diversified supply of gas. In any case, there are challenges for this: the Netherlands and Norway are phasing out and even stopping gas extraction. The LNG terminal in Zeebrugge and the smooth supply of LNG from some 20 countries are now being looked at. The FPS Economy states that LNG imports can be particularly interesting for Belgium and that a monopoly situation around Russian supplies can certainly be avoided. I am so honest to say that Russia's supply is obviously very limited in Belgium, but of course it is setting the price within Europe as a whole. Could you give us a more detailed explanation? Can this also be done for a number of other aspects, such as windfall profit research, which was also decided on 23 December? Hence the many questions, but I do not want to mow the lawn in front of my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u5	Mr. Chair, Minister, my first question is about Plans A and B. The second question includes several sub-questions relating to future nuclear research. With regard to Plan A and Plan B, the Prime Minister indicated that security of supply and price control would be further anchored in legislation. Can we get more information about this? Does this concern the CRM bill on the committee's agenda of February 8th? If not, can you inform us of the timetable in this regard? Can you let us know if this scenario requires authorisation from the European Commission? Can you inform us of the assessment of the costs in the event of the final non-licensing of the Vilvorde plant's environmental permit, from the allocation of an auction to production capacity requiring more investment? Can we be assured that these additional costs do not affect the bill of our fellow citizens? That was the original objective. Is the current situation changing the situation? If so, can you tell us what initiatives are being considered for this purpose? The draft delegated act presented by the European Commission on 31 December last proposes the inclusion of certain activities related to taxonomy gas. If this project is still to be discussed, can you nevertheless share your comments on its potential impact on CRM costs? Can we have your assessment of the risks associated with recourse to the Council of State against the Awirs project, as well as the risks associated with potential recourse to projects that will win future auctions? How are redress options managed? It was announced that the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN) and the SPF Economy would yesterday issue an initial assessment of the procedures to be initiated in the event of an extension of the Doel 4 and Tihange 3 nuclear reactors. Can we get your feedback on this document and, in particular, on the question of the application for authorisation of this scenario from the European Commission? Finally, could you provide us with specific conditions for using a plan B? I now turn to my questions about investment in RMS. Can you provide us with more information on the use of the amount mentioned, i.e. EUR 100 million at a rate of EUR 25 million per year by 2024, as well as on the nature of the research that will be undertaken? Will this nuclear energy research only concern RMS technology? To what extent will industrial partners be involved in this research? As regards more specifically the financing of this investment, the Prime Minister said that the investment in question is part of the broader framework of European financing and the sustainable energy investment programme that has been in place for one year. Can we get more information on this and, in particular, on the European and possibly national funding shares? Have any contacts been made or are they envisaged with your French and Dutch counterparts in this regard? If so, can we learn more about these possible contacts? As I have already said, on 31 December 2021 the European Commission presented a draft delegated act which envisages the inclusion of certain activities in the nuclear sector into the European taxonomy. Can we get your feedback on this draft delegated act and on the inclusion of certain nuclear activities in the European taxonomy? Has a timetable been established for the amendment of the legal framework mentioned? Does this change concern the CRM law or only the new legislative framework for sustainable energy? Finally, could we be informed of the initiatives envisaged to ensure that the CEN's expertise is maintained in the coming years, given the serious risk of its experts leaving?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u6	Mr. Ben Achour, you've already used a minute of your reply time. The questions were undoubtedly interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u7	Madam Minister, the questions have already been mentioned very explicitly. Have you received any interest in the possible rerun of Elia's report with regard to piste A.... and, if so, what are its conclusions? As far as piste B is concerned, I note that more research and analysis were needed. As an entrepreneur, I have the experience that, if one has the choice, one has to examine all the slopes on the ground. I also understand that you have pointed out to the government that more research on this was not only useful, but also necessary in order to make credible decisions. In this context, it is important that the FANC report offers more opportunities and that we should be careful in this discussion to take an ideological view as a basis. What about your reluctance to view a lifetime extension? Last but not least, if the government decides to invest EUR 100 million more in research, then it is also necessary to leave the door open to legislation allowing its implementation. I would like to hear your opinion on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u8	Madam Minister, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we took note of the FANC report last night. I understand, of course, that there are parties who were afraid of the outcome of that report, because it was something that should have been asked for immediately after the government declaration, a year and a half ago. The report says that our power plants already largely meet the safety requirements. In fact, they are safe, but a number of parties dare to compare our power stations with those that were poorly maintained at Chernobyl. Why should our power stations be unsafe when it is decided everywhere in the world to extend the lifespan of nuclear power plants about the same age as ours? I find Green's reaction rather childish. I think they are bad losers, because I have not read any valid argument in the reactions of President Almaci and Minister Petra De Sutter. It's weak. The only thing that is said in the end is that ENGIE doesn't want to. That's cheap. You've tasted them with a pot of gold, and now they're told they don't want it. That's a little weird. The Minister says that the case has been closed, but that case has never been closed, especially if I read the outcome of this report. In any case, the population does not agree with your policy. If you do a poll tomorrow on the nuclear power stations, you will certainly bite the sand there too. However, your party is not known for the democratic way in which the people's opinions are handled, you are actually making your wish. The way in which colleagues try to conceal the FANC report proves this. What is the government's response to this FANC report, given the agreement you concluded on 23 December?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin with the agreement of 23 December. Immediately thereafter, I will talk about its implementation. Then I'll deal with the questions about the reports that were delivered yesterday. Finally, I deal with the more specific and diverse questions. The government and I have always said that Belgium's security of supply is an important issue. We all know for some time now that we are facing a serious challenge with the closure of at least five nuclear power stations in the coming years. The first, Objective 3, will close in 10 months, on 1 October 2022. Tihange 2 will close shortly afterwards, on February 1, 2023. Solutions have been worked out for this, first in the government's lap and then, above all, in this committee, in current and off-going cases. I refer to the exchanges of views we had during the design process. When the government took office, it was also decided that there would be an evaluation of the state of play by the end of 2021 anyway, because everyone knows that the time is up. I quote what Elijah often says about this: "We have been in the situation for a very long time now that it is five to twelve, and in the meantime there is not a day left to lose." At the time of this evaluation there was also a perfect storm, which has made things sharp. There was, for example, the fact that after the successful auction under the CRM, there was a non-licensed capacity, with, of course, concerns about CO2 emissions. At the same time, we were faced with rising prices. So we have not satisfied ourselves with the government with a simple yes-or-no decision on the whole core step, but we have had a wide-ranging debate leading to a comprehensive agreement on the energy switch as a whole. On the one hand, we are not blind to today's challenges, including rising prices, and on the other hand, let us not be guided by the delusion of the day, but by a longer-term vision. Energy policy implies and requires long-term thinking, but action in the short term. So, more than ever, we are choosing "that was the approach of the coalition agreement" for security, affordability and forward-lookingness. The eight pillars of this agreement relate to security of supply, legal certainty, rising prices, a climate-neutral energy system by 2050, respect for climate commitments, the polluter pays principle applied to nuclear facilities, something we have discussed before in this committee, the strengthening of our geostrategic independence and, finally, the energy transition as a driving force for job creation. To start with security of supply, which is always central, with special attention to legal certainty. The starting point is to secure security of supply, and we must obviously have investors and partners to do so, which then creates legal certainty. In concrete terms, this means that we are strengthening, further legally anchoring and operationalising the CRM through our investment mechanism. In particular, Mr Ben Accour's questions dealt with this in greater depth. We had a competitive auction with the CRM, validated by the CREG, but due to the lack of a final license for Vilvoorde, or let me rephrase it: the explicit refusal of the authorisation for Vilvoorde is likely to require an additional capacity of 800 megawatt derated to ensure security of supply in winter 2025-2026. What is the solution now? An evaluation will take place on 15 March. At that moment we take the picture and see if a permit has been granted for Vilvoorde. By this I mean a permit issued at last administrative stage. If not, another capacity will be selected from the unselected projects. This requires a change of law. It cannot be based on the current regulatory framework. The draft law to make this possible was adopted at first reading by the Council of Ministers on 23 December 2021. To answer Mr. Ben Achour, everything will depend on the advice of the Council of State. As soon as we receive it, we can start the legislative work in committee – probably from February 8 or 15, because we have no time to waste. On the issue of incremental costs, our intention is to respect the outcome of the auction. Of course, the CRM principle is that the best offer must win. If we select another capacity, the price will obviously be higher. You asked me what the exact amount would be. The data at Elia's disposal, which organizes the auction, must remain confidential. For the time being, we can only make estimates from the published report. They would amount to EUR 10 million per year. For the energy standard, which was voted and entered into force on 1 January 2022, it was decided in the budget conclave that it would not affect the invoice. As for appeals, they are not suspensive. The bill that will be presented to you in committee is intended to structurally regulate the permits of those who participate in the auction. At least as a backup, I have every confidence in it. Making the CRM work is the first thing we are committed to. Either Vilvoorde gets a permit, or we replace Vilvoorde with another capacity. In addition, there is a backup of the backup, the so-called plan B. This brings me to the questions that have been asked here about the various reports. A total of three reports were produced: a report by Elia on the CRM, the FANC report and the report by my administration. The latter two relate to plan B. Elia's report shows that there is sufficient interest and that the light is green for what is technically called a rerun. This is based on the existing outcome of the CRM and we select a next capacity. So that's a checkpoint that's ticked. As has already been said, there is the FANC report on Plan B. This is not the FANC's first report, but rather the second. I would like to refer to Mr Van Lommel, who said that this report is finally being asked for. No, this is the FANC's second report. There was already a first report from the FANC in the evaluation report on security of supply which I submitted to the government and which has also been published. Afterwards, however, the FANC was asked to produce an updated version of that report. Since the FANC report deals with the aspects of nuclear safety, I refer to Minister Verlinden, who is responsible for this. I respect the powers of the FANC. The FANC is an independent authority with regard to safety aspects. And there is a separation of powers. That is why I refer to Minister Verlinden in this dossier. I do believe that the FANC report should be read together with the report of my administration. By the way, I have asked my administration to make this report available transparently through the website of the FOD. It deals with a number of aspects which do fall within the competence of my domain, Energy. If we are to activate a plan B to ensure security of supply, we will in any case need an additional mechanism. By the way, that's always been assessed by Elijah. The 2 gigawatts of the nuclear power stations are not sufficient to ensure security of supply by 2025. A complementary mechanism for security of supply is therefore absolutely necessary. For this we cannot use the current CRM. The capacities selected today cannot be fished, transferred or simply implemented. The report of my administration explained that this inevitably means that, because of the standstill clause, we must stop the implementation of the current CRM. That was also confirmed in a conversation with Mrs Vestager. The mere extension of the life of two nuclear power plants is not sufficient to ensure security of supply by 2025. The questions about rising energy prices and energy independence are dealt with in the topical debate, so I can give an integrated answer. Mr Ravyts, I spoke yesterday about gas supplies with the new German Minister for Energy, Mr Habeck. Germany is, of course, an important country in this area, not only in terms of regulating the gas market, but also in view of the whole issue of geopolitical tensions, in particular the Nord Stream 2. We have discussed, among other things, the issues that have also been addressed in the framework of the bill on gas storage obligations and the national regulations on additional storage obligations that we discussed last week. For all forms of energy, including renewable energy, we depend on abroad. Soon we will import hydrogen and we will also import renewable energy. We will even make a direct link with Denmark. Uranium, which is primarily from Kazakhstan, oil and gas are also imported today. In order to better guarantee energy independence, we will have to switch to renewable energy. We're not here yet. In the meantime, we must, of course, ensure our energy supply throughout the energy transition. Therefore, the government has decided to request a new study from three actors, the AD Energy, Fluxys and the CREG, on security of gas supply in the short, medium and long term, with a view to international geostrategic orientation. The CREG was chosen because of the price aspects. The AD Energy has been designated as responsible for security of supply. As a network operator, Fluxys plays a crucial role in the operationalisation of security of supply. With these three actors, we can make a comprehensive picture of this. I now turn to the climate-neutral energy system by 2050 and the intermediate steps. In accordance with the government agreement, the law on the exit of nuclear power is maintained, except in the case of major security of supply problems. We will also be working on a new bill on sustainable and climate-neutral production opportunities, including green hydrogen, Power-to-X and research on small reactors, namely RMS. It is about putting energy policy into a long-term and more planned vision than it is today. If we are to achieve 100% renewable energy switch by 2050, more planning and roadmaps are needed. As I often say, it is this strategic vision, but also the direction of our energy policy over the last 20 years that has prevented us from moving faster and explains the situation we are in today. For MRLs, the position is not new. Therefore, I do not wish to react to a trial of intent. Already during the publication of Bill Gates' book, I wrote a carte blanche which was published in De Tijd on the occasion of which I indicated that I agreed with him. If we could have nuclear technology that does not have the disadvantages of today's nuclear technology, I would, of course, be in favour of it. What are the disadvantages of this technology today? These are the waste, its management and the financing of this management. In addition, there are issues of internal security, international security at the facility level – let us look at the current situation of the French nuclear fleet – and the risks of proliferation. Innovation in nuclear energy, particularly in civil energy, is therefore essential. This is why criteria have been set for MRSs, namely passive safety, minimization of long-lived nuclear waste, non-proliferation, flexibility. These are the challenges of energy policy. Consideration must also be given to economic feasibility, economic insurability, sustainable development and the time frame for implementation. I am confident that the work of your committee will assist us in the development of this strategy. A second aspect was also that we approved the nuclear provisions project at first reading. It is also a subject on which I am often asked, particularly by Mr Ben Achour and colleagues Ecolo and Groen. What is it? The aim is to secure the future, by charging the polluter and not the taxpayer, and to manage the past, with the dismantling and disposal of nuclear waste. It is the longest, most expensive and most delicate part. The core of the design is that all funds of commission are allowed by the operator...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u10	Madam Secretary, may I ask you to conclude? This seems to me to be on another subject, which we can certainly come back to.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u11	I'm coming to the end of my speech. In any case, this is an integral part of the agreement we have reached within the government. The questions that were asked to me were, among other things, to know the details of this agreement. The core of the nuclear provisions bill is that the nuclear commissions are fully reimbursed by the operator. The 14 billion of commission returns to Belgium, both in terms of decommissioning and combustible usées. Here too, the Council of State has been asked for its opinion within 60 days, because it is a highly technical and financial project. This too will be discussed in the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u12	Mr Warmoes is sorry, he is in front of another meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u13	Madam Minister, I have gained more insight into the way in which that decision is now being taken. I think it is very important that we can really cut that knot in March. It is a difficult dossier in which you are also being obstructed. You say that the long-term vision is better than the vision that existed before with regard to energy policy in our country. I agree with you on that, too. The FANC's opinion does not in itself change that. You also referred to your colleague, Mrs Verlinden. I will certainly deal with that. After all, I read in the opinion that some of the work can be postponed beyond 2025 and I naturally have questions about safety and production, but I will ask your colleague. In any case, the opinion does not change very much what is on the table today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u14	Madam Minister, we are, of course, looking forward to the reports as they are published. I did a little digging, but I didn't find the report from the Energy DG directly. However, this may still be the case. I also find it striking that you referred to the very tight timing of doing a number of things. Let us be honest, it was not us who asked for that decision to be postponed until after November 2021. You did it yourself, you organized the timing yourself. Those are the facts on the table. You are now saying that there is a problem with timing and that you must now start speaking again with the European Commission, when you have been sitting at the table with the European Commission for a year. I find it very worrying that all of this happens that way. I also note that I have not received an answer to the question whether an agreement has been reached on the ETS objective. I have a version of the proposal submitted to the nuclear cabinet, which states that you will be asked to seek any compensation in the energy production sector. Apparently, you don't want to go into that. Is that appointment made or not? You do not want to talk about this, I will have to go back to that in a new question. It is clear, however, that a decision must be taken, and the FANC report also points in this direction. All of them cannot wait very long. The problems will be even greater than they are now. You say that the appeal against Les Awirs is not suspensive, but if that decision is still pending, of course you will be in trouble. The condition you impose on Vilvoorde, namely that there should no longer be an appeal, does not apply to Les Awirs. It's all a bit unclear. I am afraid that we have not yet reached the end of the problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u15	Madam Minister, thank you for explaining the eight pillars. That was necessary, too. Some of them seem to have documents that have already clarified that somewhat, but I had to rely on the press reports. I take note of your answer on gas supplies. You always beat Mr Van Lommel with the uranium, but of course he is not talking about the raw material but about the production in his own country. The previous governments have brought us into a reality in which we are dependent on imports, including in the field of renewable energy, because we have our geographical limitations. You also referred to the FANC's second report. The FANC's first report was part of the evaluation report at the end of November. Mr Wollants and Mr Van Lommel have already said that Plan B should be launched in October 2020. So a year has passed in which we have not been dealing with plan B.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u16	Minister, thank you for these answers. I will react briefly as I have exceeded my speaking time in my question. I'll be disciplined. It should be noted that the timetable is extremely tight, regardless of the scenario. In addition, we do not master all aspects of it. As far as the European Commission is concerned, you have given some answers, but things are not as clear as that. What are the constraints, whatever choice we make, that the European Commission will impose on us? I will take back the written report of your answers. I would find it interesting that the evaluation of the AFCN and the SPF Economy be made available to this committee; it would be a good transparency exercise that, in my view, would bring other elements into the debate. We will remain very vigilant until the end. You know our top priorities on this issue: security of supply and price. We didn't talk about employment here; maybe it wasn't the place or the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u17	Mr President, since I have been extremely quick in my question, since I have referred to my text, I will take a little longer, if I may, for my reply, after everything I have heard. Madam Minister, thank you for the elements that you bring to the debate. However, these are not clear at all, and this has been noted by other stakeholders. It is a shame, because when we are, as you say, supposedly in a hurry of time, we are of a rigor and a much sharper precision than those you have shown today. The history of energy does not stop retrospectively at "twenty years ago". In 2003, in this country, we took an idiotic law that was to say that our nuclear power plants could not operate beyond 40 years. We see all over the world that with the evolution of technology and, above all, of safety technology, in reality, the lifespan of nuclear power plants is much longer and that these plants provide us with electricity that is low in CO2. With the evolution of time, this has been said and repeated in the IPCC reports. It clearly falls within the scope of the energy transition and the evolution that we need to plan by 2050. In this regard, I agree with you. But let us know that 2050 is not a goal in itself either. We'll still live after 2050, and we'll see how our environment is on this Earth. I now come to very specific things. You admit that in reality the CRM can work, or in any case the generation of electricity by the gas can work, and must even work, with the nuclear, and that both can mix in an energy mix. In your opinion, that would be the one that we should use if a serious supply problem were found in March and we had to extend 2 gigawatts of nuclear power. Moreover, you specify that 2 gigawatts of nuclear power is not enough to ensure security of supply in 2050. I can tell you that this is already not enough to ensure security of supply now, in 2030, and even after. We know – it's not said and it's hidden – that 4 gigawatts are missing. And it's all the more missing 4 gigawatts because you're missing a gas plant, in your very competitive market, which generates delays and a lot of problems, including legal problems and problems of notification to the European Commission, and you're going to have to go through these problems precisely and rigorously. And there's the whole problem. I will not mention it any longer today. I'll come back to you later. The operators will see the contract that they have concluded broken. I'm talking about Electrabel with Vilvorde. They will react as any normal society would. They're not charities, and they might think of bringing legal action. All those who have lost a chance, who have not been designated, since Electrabel has been designated, will also have this type of reflex. In addition, having Elia do the work of a government within this framework raises questions in terms of legal principles. And I'm not the only one who's asking. As the market has evolved in the way we know it, project offerers may not fully agree, either, to offer projects at the same price as a few months ago. At the time, gas prices and market prices were significantly lower than those of today. Your financial assessment of the additional costs of reviving the public market to obtain a capacity that would replace Vilvorde will certainly be contradicted by the facts. It may be completely contradicted in the event that no operator decides, on your terms, to contract in a re-run market that you were talking about earlier. That is the whole set of difficulties you are facing and you have faced this government because all this is your plan. I draw your special attention to the coming weeks that will be crucial to getting out of it high. It's not just about you, it's not your personal problem, it's not just about a whole government, it's about a whole population.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u18	Madam Minister, thank you for your detailed answer to a question concerning 4% of our energy production. I listened with increasing amazement to the way in which some people conduct the debate and the words used in it. I would like to confine myself to the criteria we have set out. The first criterion is security of supply. I hear a minister who keeps working on that security of supply, although no permit was issued for that gas plant. I also hear that if we opt for the extension of nuclear power stations, there will be no certainty about that security of supply, because a new auction will have to be organised. Who knows what will be the outcome of that? The second criterion is the price. I hear a minister trying to think about how the price can be treated. I think that some people in this debate forget that if we were to extend the youngest two nuclear power stations, this would also cost money. Moreover, we do not have the funds yet for the waste disposal of the waste that is already there, let alone for the extra waste that we would create over the next ten years. The third criterion is sustainability, including the sustainability of a choice. We are discussing an extension of ten years to reach the same point within ten years. Allow me to put some serious questions in that regard. Finally, the latest report by the FANC, the second report which, in my view, creates a new security framework and looks at how we could achieve this extension, but where there should be an adaptation to the security framework. I sincerely wonder whether we want to negotiate nuclear safety. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance says very clearly that it does not want to do so, and we will also put that question to Minister Verlinden. I conclude by saying that there have been a lot of studies over the last 20 years on the path we must follow. It's clear which path that is. We need to invest in renewable energy. The entrepreneurial world has also understood this very well. So let us stop this discussion and let us take the way forward and make the switch to 100% renewable energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u19	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive reply. On 23 December, a very important agreement was reached by the federal government, which dealt with several aspects. For us, security of supply, affordability and nuclear expertise are important issues. As far as the FANC report is concerned, it is positive that this detailed report is available within the requested timeline. That report is very important to us. We do not think that we should play with security. It was therefore important for the FANC to draw up this report. We do have confidence in the expertise and independence of the FANC. So we're not questioning the report either. If we start doing that, we'll be on slippery ice. There's clarity now. Plan B, an extension, is possible, but the operator must go along with it and it must be decided quickly. These are the conclusions of that detailed report. I would also like to make it clear that we believe that plan A should be implemented first. Only if we can't do that will we have to switch to plan B. In any case, it must be decided quickly. That is what we want to underline. We are also pleased that the agreement concluded by the federal government left an opening for the development of new SMRs. We are convinced that technology does not stand still and we must face the future with open eyes. It's going to be a very busy time. I think a decision must be made quickly for everyone's sake.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u20	Madam Minister, thank you for the answer, but I am still a little hungry. I still sense some ambiguity. On the one hand, you advocate innovation. We know that the world continues to change. On the other hand, you use the word concrete from a particular slope or road. You then refer to the full transition to renewable energy. Everyone knows that a 100% energy mix of renewable energy is not only not accessible within a realistic timeframe, but is also not justified. We always come back to the discussion about waste. Will you give me an energy source that does not produce waste after 25 years, whether it be batteries, solar panels or windmills? Safety is also always a death-killer, because more people have died in swimming pools in the last 20 years than in a nuclear accident. Do we have to shut down all the pools? In the nuclear debate, I feel a certain lack of willpower and conviction, including among other parties, in looking to the future, towards new energy. It's always easy to say what can't be done. Sometimes it's harder to work for something that can. You have rightly pointed out that many days, weeks and months have expired in order to look at the substance of everything. This certainly applies to the present legislature, but I would like to add that I am very sorry to say that it also applies to the previous legislature, which makes it a collective responsibility. Following on, in the next debate, I would like to talk about energy prices and the impact of the policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u21	Mr President, Minister, the government has finally understood the urgency to intervene in the people's energy bill. We've been knocking on that nail for months. The measures which the government has now taken and which we have approved are totally inadequate in relation to existing needs and what is happening in other countries. The situation is unsustainable, energy has become priceless. Every day we get testimonies from people who say they put their heating at 15 degrees and that in a situation where people have to work at home, a whole day. I do not know whether everyone in Parliament and in the government is aware of what this means for many people, and not only disadvantaged people. You and Minister Van Peteghem were instructed by the government to seek good measures. There are several slopes on the table, which is no secret: a VAT reduction, an energy check, an energy premium, a reduction in excise duty. You yourself argued for a reduction in excise duty, but then your party chairman came up with an energy premium of EUR 200 or 220. The colleagues from Vooruit and CD&V are working for a VAT reduction, whether temporary or not. However, I would like to point out the great difference between all these measures. A VAT reduction would easily save more than EUR 500 per year for a typical family. For an energy premium or cheque, that depends on the amount it contains, but the amounts currently proposed are less than half of them, EUR 200 or 220. A reduction in excise duty is a maximum of EUR 60.16, because there are no more federal excise duties. We are, of course, talking about federal powers here. Even if you reduce excise duties to zero, that is only EUR 60 compared to an enormous increase in the price of people. The government must act decisively, because the need is high. There is actually only one measure that is efficient, significant and with immediate effect, you can already feel it coming: the VAT reduction to 6%. The time has come for this in Parliament, because if we add the votes of the various groups that have voted on it, there will be a majority for it, even if it did not turn out to be so last week. Madam Secretary, my question is simple. Will you intervene decisively? How will you do that? Will you finally reduce the luxury rate of 21 % VAT on energy to 6%, whether temporarily or not? I come to my next question linked to this. How can we pay that VAT reduction? Some consider that a far too expensive measure and it does indeed cost quite a lot. We are the only party to put forward a concrete alternative. Last week, our study service published a more detailed calculation of the excess profits of Belgian nuclear power plants. We have been saying since last September that ENGIE Electrabel, as the operator of the power plants, is the great winner of this energy crisis. According to our latest calculations, that profit would be EUR 2.6 billion, i.e. EUR 2,600 million. According to our calculations, ENGIE Electrabel would have made an extra 806 million euros last year due to high energy prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u22	Mr Warmoes, can you keep it a little shorter?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u23	Mr President, I have three questions and I have two minutes to speak for them, six minutes in total. Is it because I mention ENGIE Electrabel that I am silenced? Last year it was EUR 806 million, this year EUR 1.4 billion. Madam Minister, so far you have always maintained that ENGIE Electrabel did not achieve significant gains, according to the non-public CREG study. You have now partly come back to that, because last week you said in De Agree that the situation has changed and that no one'may enrich themselves in this crisis'. You have again instructed the CREG to investigate whether there is excess profit. Do you recognize that principle? This is actually quite simple and follows entirely from the liberalised energy market. The production costs of nuclear power plants have not increased or barely increased, but their revenues have. They're tripled or more. Then it is logic itself that there are excess profits. When do you expect the results of this new CREG study? Will it be made public this time? After all, the previous one is still not public. It is based on that study that people say that there is no surplus, but we cannot control it. It was up to our study service to disprove that once again. Are you serious when you say that no one can enrich themselves with this crisis? Then how will you take care of that? How will you skim the profits? You used to hide behind the so-called strangulation contracts that Mrs Marghem concluded with ENGIE Electrabel, but they only apply to Objectives 1 and 2. You can easily modify the legal framework of the Repartition Contribution applicable to Objectives 3 and 4 and Tihange 2 and 3 or introduce a new Solidarity Contribution. Which slopes are you thinking of?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u24	Mr President, Minister, temporary, targeted and sustainable is the summary of the task you have been given by the Prime Minister. You must make the calculations and shine the light in a darkness of cacophony. In the past few days, many balloons have been delayed, up to and including today, in which Mr Van Peteghem details the announced VAT reduction and wants to link it to the market price. He also wants to use it as a civilization, by restricting it to single people and people with children. After all, I have to interpret the term 'families' in that way. Mrs De Bleeker is talking about a reduction in social security contributions. I was very surprised by Mrs Almaci, who spoke of EUR 220. The PS presented a proposal of 200 euros. There were also your excise duties, which should come to zero. This is therefore a flexible system of excise duty, which had to be brought to zero. Mr Warmoes has put forward the effects of all such matters here. I won't repeat it. Moreover, there is, of course, the issue of windfall profits, in which you asked the CREG to update it. Mr President, we have never been able to see the first study. However, I explicitly requested them from the CREG when the CREG came here to present its policy paper and budget, albeit without consequence. I don't know why. Are there any results of the technical calculations and the inter-kabinette consultation? That is undoubtedly the case. What package of measures does the government intend to respond to? If that is not the case, what is your timetable? Mr President, my second question concerns the impact of the sharp rise in prices on wholesale supply markets. FEBEG pulled the alarm. After all, the crisis also has a major impact on suppliers' finances. They even ask for the termination fee to be re-established for fixed-rate energy contracts. Unlike most other European countries, a residential customer in Belgium has been able to break a fixed-price energy contract one-sidedly and without termination fees for about ten years. According to FEBEG, this makes it difficult for suppliers to cover products at fixed prices and contributes to their scarcity. They are also asking for fair compensation for the financial and administrative costs of introducing the social tariff, which is, of course, an old demand. In particular, they are asking the government more globally to spread the risk of low-paying customers fairly across the different players across the chain: the suppliers for the share of energy, the grid operators for the share of transport and distribution, and the government that imposes taxes and charges, including on unpaid energy bills. At present, they consider that this risk is almost exclusively borne by suppliers. How do you respond to the FEBEG alarm call about this unbalanced situation? Do you have any solutions for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u25	Mr President, Minister, rising energy prices remain a problem. Nor does the VREG figures lie: on the basis of the January figures, the invoice for average consumption has increased to more than EUR 5,400 per year. It also remains a fact that only doing something for the 18% of the population receiving the social tariff is too little. In the meantime, it has been announced that you have been instructed to list what measures may be taken. The press has already told us that the reduction of VAT and the introduction of an energy cheque are possible, but other measures are, of course, conceivable. For example, last Friday Professor Peersman suggested a concession that would not go directly through the energy bill, so that one could make the most appropriate choice. You have also suggested that the new excise duty system should be abolished. Possibly there are people who think of progressive pricing and so on. At the same time, the story resurfaces that an additional contribution may be requested from the nuclear operator. When we asked you in September last year to use the nuclear interest rate or its skimming to reduce the energy bill, you said that you could not and that ENGIE would take the Belgian State to court if you did. It is therefore bizarre that there is a piste today to study that again. The question is whether the study you requested from the CREG has produced concrete results that you could now work on. In any case, we have not yet seen these results, let alone that they have been communicated to Parliament. I have the following questions. Where do you stand with the search for ways of dampening, compensating or meeting energy prices? What other measures do you wish to examine other than those already mentioned in the press? Do you also wish to limit the scope of your search for measures? So will you also look at matters that are in the sphere of broader taxation or just at matters that are directly linked to the energy bill? Can you tell us what elements you did not have examined in September 2021 in terms of potentially skimming off nuclear interest rates and which you would like to deepen today? Could you please explain why those elements were not examined last time? Do you maintain that on the basis of the current systems, which are those 38% that are always mentioned, no additional revenue can be expected and that these additional revenues will not be the case in the coming years on the basis of the agreed hedging formula? Finally, was the announced September 2021 study carried out and delivered to you? Can you tell us the main conclusions? Can you, of course, also share the study with Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u26	Mr. Chair, Minister, the issue of bills and increases in energy prices is a complex one. You are the functional minister who must answer that. It is therefore normal for us to ask you. We did so in plenary last week, although I did not have the opportunity to be present. It should be noted that since the bills increase, we still have no precise direction on your part, except on the social rate. Everyone goes with their proposal. The MR is a strong supporter of the ratchet. Naturally, for all these measures, we must find ways. Mr. Wollants is right to talk about the studies that you should have conducted, or that you have conducted, or that you may be conducting. I would like to draw your attention to an article in De Standaard which says that high energy prices lead to over-profits for green electricity and that we must look at all electricity operators and producers in today's market situation. Madam Minister, I would like to know whether you have asked CREG to do a study not only on suppliers, but also on electricity producers, all as much as they are, in order to see what excess profits they are making, given the rise in market prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u27	The concerns about energy prices are high, not only in the short term but also in the long term. The short-term concerns have nothing to do with whether or not to continue the core exit. We have to face the reality of the market, but we also have to learn lessons for the future. More attention must be paid to the long term. You have devoted a great deal of time to the CRM, which is a kind of transitional regime. But where do we want to go? How can we control price levels? For me, these are two things that clearly advocate a technology-independent energy mix on the road to climate neutrality, with much openness to innovation but also to geopolitical realism. That is also a reason for a very broad energy mix. Whether it's batteries or solar panels, they come from all directions. If we believe that we can extract hydrogen from Namibia tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, we have no certainty that there will be no dictator in power there. We must therefore be realistic. On the matter itself, I can only repeat that measures must be targeted, socially responsible and financially feasible. We still believe that a reduction in VAT does not meet these requirements. We can discuss the question of who we are throwing the reality of high prices into today and perhaps tomorrow, but we must finance them. We must also realise that if we always put these costs on the government, we, as taxpayers, will ever get the bill presented, it will not be today or tomorrow. I believe that there is still a great deal of work to be done on prices. We will discuss this in consultation with the Finance Committee. There is a need for greater transparency on price structures, price formation and the role of the Regions in all kinds of charges. We must not forget that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u28	Mr President, Minister, a hearing on high energy prices took place in this committee just before Christmas. For many people, hope was smashed to shreds. We thought or hoped at least at first that it was a temporary phenomenon, but now it is clear that energy prices will remain high for a long time. Meanwhile, the stories about high advance invoices continue to come in. We are talking to people who have to pay extremely high advances and who are therefore in an unsustainable situation. Additional measures are needed. Forwards didn't have to think long about what action is needed. For us, the most logical measure that has enough impact and can be introduced quickly is, of course, the reduction of VAT to 6%. Energy is a basic product for us. It is certainly important that decisions can be taken in the short term. The previous speaker asked very interesting questions, but no one has any benefit at the moment. Decisions need to be made now. I understand that today you will probably not tell us exactly what the government is going to do. We will have to pay the measure for a large amount with the current increase in VAT revenue. The path of tackling the excess profits of the core operator will be reopened. You have spoken in the past about strangle contracts that your predecessor has concluded, but you may see openings there now. Do you have the CREG look at the offshore production? What could possibly be done there? What can we expect from the repartition contribution in the current context of high prices?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u29	Mr President, I will take the floor in reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin with what Mr Verduyckt said in his answer on high energy prices. As you know, I am opposed to the premise that the government has not acted. We have acted for the winter, with a total package of EUR 760 million. For those most vulnerable, the government took specific measures with the extension of the social tariff. In addition, we carried out a structural reform of the invoice with regard to the energy standard. The regulations on the energy standard were adopted by Parliament and have been implemented on the invoice since 1 January. We have therefore recognised the urgency of this for the winter period, not just by saying something about it but by taking decisions and implementing them. People who benefit from the social rate today receive a flat-rate discount of 80 euros, paid via a credit note. Two million people or one million families are protected today through the social tariff. A structural reform has also been carried out through the energy standard. Mr Verduyckt was right to point out the context in which we acted. In the context at that time, the regulator, the CREG, had told us that energy prices would fall after winter. At the moment, also cited by Mr Verduyckt, the same regulator says that this will not be the case. So we are now faced with an extremely volatile market for both electricity and gas, so that the expected fall in prices does not occur. This also means that we will now take additional measures. Those are not balloons either, although I know there are many statements being made. At the moment, however, there is an inter-kabinets working group, with the steering team which has also worked out the previous measures. It concerns the combined expertise of Energy and Finance. We also want to see policy-oriented structural measures now. The prices are volatile and we have already said in abundance that it is a global context that has to do with the revival after corona, with the geopolitical tensions that we have been talking about several times, and specifically with regard to electricity, with the pressure on wholesale prices due to the unavailability of part of the French nuclear park. French consumers may not feel that because they have regulated prices, but it is this unavailability and, above all, the uncertainty about the impact on the whole of the French nuclear park, which is driving up electricity prices. In that context, we are acting again today. Last week, we agreed with the nuclear cabinet on an approach whereby all proposed measures will be discussed and evaluated without exception, including a VAT reduction. In general terms, I would like to say the following about this reduction in VAT. For a smart VAT reduction, tailored to the energy transition, I am absolutely open. The instrument is already ready, namely excise duty. With this excise duty we need to be able to target even better, we need to use it even better. This will allow us to act in the long term. We must avoid ad hoc solutions, even if they sound good, because in se they are often stupid and brutal solutions. A stupid VAT reduction that reduces wages and benefits and, in fact, is a shift from poor to rich, I fit for that. For any smart measure, on the other hand, tailored to the energy transition, which is both ecologically and socially controlled, my door is always open. In this context, the energy standard and excise duty are the preferred instrument. We are already using the energy standard today for exemptions for people entitled to the social tariff. We can also use excise duty to diversify between electricity and gas. That's how we hit two birds with one stone. It is very important to pursue policies and ensure that we can actually intervene on the invoice, here and now, but with a long-term perspective. With regard to the questions that have been put to me in writing about energy poverty and of which I am not sure whether I have heard them orally, the figures are sufficiently well known. In particular, we are talking about one in five. Those figures have already been adequately addressed. We work together with Mrs Lalieux to establish energy poverty indicators in Belgian legislation in the context of the transposition of European EMD legislation. Wallonia has the highest share of energy poverty, 28.3% of families. In the Brussels-Capital Region it is 27.6 % and in Flanders it is 15.1 % lower. There were also questions about the bankruptcies of energy suppliers. These have so far been a direct consequence of the high market prices and short unhedging, the pre-purchase of the electricity to be supplied at the time of delivery. This led to some suppliers having to purchase at very high market prices and sell at the low prices set in the contracts with customers. The opposite was also the case. Due to the sharp rise in prices, people switched less from energy suppliers, which meant that suppliers had too little energy and had to buy it. In the short term, I have asked the Economic Inspectorate, the Competition Authority and the CREG to be extra vigilant. My staff and my administration are in very close contact with the CREG to monitor the situation on a daily basis. The IKWs that are taking place and which have taken place in the context of the Budget Conclave have always worked closely with the different administrations and the CREG to provide numerical support. The social rate is rising. This is part of the concept or design of the social tariff, which was revised in the previous legislature, especially in order to meet the requirements of the European Commission. The conclusion is that the increase is limited if we look at the market evolution. There's no way around that. Even more important is the finding that the social maximum price, the social rate, for those who need it most today, is the most efficient cushion against the current crisis. In 2018 there was also an energy crisis, then due to the unavailability of Belgian power stations. An average family then paid just under 1,600 euros for gas and a family with a social rate just over 800 euros. The price increases are much bigger today. Today an average family pays for gas consumption 3,600 euros and a family with a social rate just over 700 euros. These figures indicate that the social tariff is an instrument that protects strongly, even though there is a form of capping in the design. So the social tariff protects more than ever before. I would like to add that the measures discussed today are not intended to restrict us to those who benefit from the social tariff, but also to the ordinary middle class, for example, for the reason Mr Verduyckt cited. After all, we were expecting prices to fall, as indicated by the CREG. That expectation is no longer there. We must, of course, extend the target group. I now turn to the questions about the repartition fee. We discussed this in committee in October. This is not the first time that we have asked the CREG and I also shared the results of the study on this in October. In the meantime, you have also heard the CREG itself in the context of the discussion of the policy paper. The CREG found that there would be no excess profits due to hedging. I asked for this to be reviewed and updated, of course market-wide, with all actors, all producers and also suppliers. For example, we also map for ourselves, for the government, what the additional VAT revenue is. I do not decide on the publication of the CREG studies, it is primarily up to the CREG to do so. However, much of the information from that study can also be found in the published study on the increase in electricity and natural gas prices, namely study No. 2289. We shouldn't pretend there's nothing yet. Today we have the existing repartition contribution for the nuclear power plants whose life span has not been extended. That's an existing formula that's been stuck in the law. She's been confirmed and committed to a contract I've been talking about before. This means that surplus profits are being skimmed today, which is already happening. My expectation is also that this will increase. Because of the amounts that we have previously ratified here by law, the following amounts will increase. I have asked the CREG to give me calculations and estimates of this. It is also true that this is covered by a contract, which applies to all reactors, not only to the Objective 1 and Objective 2 reactors, which provided that no other mechanisms should be imposed. With regard to the wind farms, the latest wind farms work with a system of LCOW, which will reduce the expected costs for supporting wind. I expect an answer from the CREG at the beginning of February, based on the request for updating. Mr President, you said it had nothing to do with the core trip. It doesn't have anything to do with that. I absolutely agree that we should look at the long-term and more structural measures. It is absolutely not the case that there is no attention to that. Last week we discussed in this committee the bill on storage and the charging mechanism for storage. How do we regulate storage? Storage regulation can also have a price stabilising effect. Whatever we have to look at in a European perspective, I have discussed with the European Commission before the holiday. At the previous committee meeting, I referred to the ESA report, which highlights causes and storage methods. For example, can the pricing model be optimised? So what are the advantages and the disadvantages? This is part of the longer-term approach. I would also like to touch on something you have said, Mr President. You said that we visited the industry in the port of Antwerp. There is a great demand for matching supply and demand. That is what the industry has said to me. This is, of course, an integral part of the CRM. It also states that technologies with less than 200 hours of rotation per year are part of the capacity remuneration mechanism. There are indeed great opportunities in the field of industrial management. That is what we need to tackle very strongly in the coming year. As far as Namibia is concerned, you said that a dictator could also be in power there. Why did we close an MOU with Namibia? Because there a Belgian company, CMB, is active in the development, production and execution of hydrogen for the greening of shipping. I've met the people of CMB a few times. Why did they choose Namibia? For the sake of political stability. In our foreign energy policy, we like to join forces for concrete projects. In Oman, for example, there is a project between Haven van Antwerpen and DEME for the export of green hydrogen. In Namibia there is CMB that is working on the greening of the hydrogen. In Denmark, it is pure government-to-government cooperation with the TSOs. I note that Belgian companies are today looking for stable economies abroad and are putting energy investments in place to ensure that added value can be created in our own economy. That's also the slope we're working on. The urgency is felt by everyone, first and foremost by the people who have to pay their advances and invoices today. That's why we didn't wait to act. A large group is protected today. It is the challenge, the ambition, the intention and the objective to now also take measures that benefit everyone. In doing so, we are making priority use of the instruments available to us today, and we are open to the methods of getting there.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u31	I would just like to make it clear that I have nothing against Namibia or against the initiatives that are being taken there. I just want to make the point that we need to be aware that we do not have any guarantees today about the political regimes that will govern in future the countries on which we are counting for our supplies. Hence my plea for a broad spread, to ensure independence, not only in terms of technology but also geographically.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u32	Madam Minister, I shall first deal with the measures and then with the gains of ENGIE Electrabel. You say that we have already taken measures, such as the energy standard, the flat-rate reduction and the extension of the social tariff. We all supported that. You've seen that at some point, but we've been pulling the alarm for a long time. It was quite clear from the outset that the problem would arise. You also know that the social tariff increases with delay because it is gradual. It was completely inadequate from the outset. You now apologize for that and say that you were misinformed. Secondly, you are talking about the volatile market and you are saying that you are now taking additional measures. I find it striking that you say that the French do not feel anything about it now because they have a regulated rate. Then what are you waiting for to introduce a regulated tariff in Belgium? Let us finally take that into our own hands instead of making it depend on the market. You are in favour of structural measures. May I make it clear that you are not in favour of a one-off premium or a check? However, that is what your party leader, Mrs Almaci, has proposed. As far as the measures are concerned, you go again for the instrument of excise duty, but as I said, you cannot go below zero for excise duties. This means that you cannot make the discount on the invoice for an average family higher than 60 euros. This is totally inadequate compared to the hundreds and sometimes thousands of more euros that people now have to pay. You call the VAT reduction stupid and brutal. I think that's pretty rude and I don't get it. Energy is a basic requirement. Do you find 6 % VAT on water, bread or milk then stupid and brutal? You should stop proposing VAT as a social-progressive tax. It is a flat tax, which is, by definition, antisocial and unfair, because the same is paid regardless of income. We do not agree with that at all. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said it a few times, but there is a momentum in this House to reduce VAT on energy to 6%. A majority of the population is in favour of a VAT reduction. There is also a majority in Parliament for this. We've already collected over 300,000 signatures. This calls on the colleagues of the Socialist and Christian Democrat parties to do something about it. Mr Wollants and the N-VA, you claim to stand up for the middle class, but if you hadn't raised VAT in 2014, then perhaps this discussion here today didn't have to be. I find it strange that the Minister continues to deny the profits that ENGIE Electrabel makes on nuclear power stations. It's simple though. With a barely increased production cost, their sales price increased three to four times more. Since we like to work openly, I suggest that we transfer our study to you and also transfer it to the CREG. You may have to refute this, but we believe that there is no less than EUR 2.6 billion in surplus. You may say that the surplus is being skimmed today, but the contributions are, as you know, historically low. You say they're going up. We'll see what the CREG says about that. This also applies only to the four non-expanded power stations, as you know. In any case, the contribution amounts to only 38%, a blow over the EUR 2.6 billion. Even if this contribution increases a little, it remains totally inadequate. The money is definitely there, and that's where we have to get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u33	Madam Secretary, the dossier is extremely complex, and I am the first to acknowledge it. Mr Warmoes is so obsessed with Electrabel that he talks to a lesser extent about the windfall profits of the offshore. I would like to know what the CREG will do about this. Madam Secretary, you are talking about a smart VAT reduction, tailored to the transition. I read in the press that it's about families and single people. Does this mean that VAT is made dependent on income? In this context, Mr Verduyckt was given a piece by Minister Van Peteghem for the Christmas celebrations. According to Minister Van Peteghem, VAT cannot be used in view of European legislation on VAT rates. So I am not sure what a smart reduction in VAT actually means. We are, of course, open to any additional initiative. You are talking about the EUR 760 million effort. Last week, I told the Prime Minister that this effort had actually been overtaken, as 82% of the population could not benefit from the social tariff. Bringing excise duty to zero also has a limited effect. The one-shots, such as energy cheques, premiums or discounts, as proposed by the PS and to my great surprise also Mrs Almaci, are not exactly a solution in the longer term either. That is why I am very interested in what this smart VAT reduction will look like. I do not know whether you would like to make a decision on this matter on Friday with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. We'll have to wait and see. The situation is, of course, extremely urgent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u34	Madam Minister, the social tariff does indeed have a major impact on those eligible for it. In this respect, the difference is very large: for natural gas 75% difference. Today we have a social tariff for natural gas which is much lower than in the period 2014-2015. Saves quite a sip on the drink. The question then is, of course, what happens for the others. We have not yet received an answer to that. To sum up, I would like to note that you think that the general VAT reduction that some propose is stupid, brutal and antisocial. I suppose that's also the government's position. Then the question is which direction it will go. I understand that this is now being discussed and that we will have to ask the question again very soon. With regard to the increase in VAT that has taken place, let me be clear: the original reduction was proposed by Mr Vande Lanotte as a temporary measure, especially to ensure that there was some room for manoeuvre for the index. In this respect, the Minister was of course right to say that the VAT reduction was mainly responsible for lowering wages and that a different discussion within the government could be concluded in this way. That does not seem to me to be the way forward. As regards the study on ENGIE's income, when I asked you last time about the existing system, you indicated that at first sight there was no real increase in income. You're saying something else today. I understand that with the continuing price increases there is a progressive understanding, but it needs to be examined further so that we can get to work on it. As you know, last time we argued in favour of a nuclear discount on the citizens' invoice, because revenue will increase, and I think that is the case today more than ever. It is indeed difficult to calculate what amount is actually involved, but it seems clear to me that it should be used and not disappear into the big pot.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u35	Mr President, having had to leave me, I will read the committee's report to ask further questions at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u36	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. First of all, I don't agree with one thing. You claim that the VAT measure could be a stupid measure. That's not correct. Energy is a basic product. It is therefore only logical that VAT should be at 6%. The measure also has an immediate impact. It is a quick measure with an immediate impact. It's true that there are side effects. However, I am convinced that we can possibly steer excise duties and adjust the stupid effects. Moreover, I believe that the measure fits in with the energy transition. In this way, we make VAT regulation a smart VAT measure. So I do not entirely agree with you in that regard. What I do agree with you about is the fact that there have already been a lot of measures, which we have, of course, taken in a different context. Mr Warmoes apparently had a glass ball and already knew what was going to happen. At that time they were good and protective measures, which were absolutely necessary. It is therefore a good thing that you say today that the government is sitting around the table and looking at additional measures. This is in stark contrast to other levels of policy. I am thinking first of all of the Flemish level of policy, where I see a Minister for Energy, who is mainly energy-intensive in delivering to others and to Europe. Everyone did it, but she doesn't do anything herself today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u37	Madam Secretary, I agree with you. In October 2021, the situation was different. The federal government did the right thing back then. First, the focus was on the most vulnerable by extending and expanding the social tariff. Structural measures in the field of energy standards and the transformation into a single excise duty were also included. However, we are now in a different situation. Prices have increased enormously against all expectations. The electricity bill doubled and the gas bill tripled. These are exceptional situations, which require exceptional measures. It is no longer just about those who are just outside the social tariff target group. It's about single people who already have two jobs to make ends meet, but who don't live anymore. It's about young two-earning people who have a heavy loan for their home and who now have to take their savings to pay their energy bills. People are fucking having a really hard time. The water is on their lips. Rapid and targeted measures must therefore be taken. For us, the temporary VAT reduction is indeed a measure eligible for this. Some parties seem to forget that it has already been applied in the past. So it's possible. It's a matter of will. If we want to help the middle class, which is now struggling and whose purchasing power is declining, such a temporary measure such as the VAT reduction is certainly very efficient and certainly to be defended. It is very strange to hear from you that this is a stupid, brutal and antisocial measure. I hope that all those who are now struggling to pay their energy bill will hear such statements. I really hope so. I hope that people who now have to pay their savings to pay their energy bills will hear that a VAT reduction is a stupid and anti-social measure. The government is together now. So I can only hope that there will be a quick solution, which, however, is also efficient and can be implemented very quickly. We must take action in the short term and, of course, in the long term. I agree with you on that point. The energy standard is an important tool for this, but also the reform of excise duties will certainly help. We are also, of course, looking forward to the CREG report, which will examine the excess profits of the various energy producers. Of course, measures can still be taken on the basis of that report. Anyway, I hope there'll be white smoke this week. After all, the water is on the lips of many people, not just those who enjoy the social rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u38	Madam Minister, I would indeed like to return to the question I put to the Prime Minister on Thursday. It is true that a lot of people are seeing their invoices increase, both in advance invoices and final bills. We know what needs to be done in the medium term: to invest in renovation, to invest in renewable energy. But it is also very important for our group that there should be a lightening of that invoice now. In addition, all these slopes need to be looked at. One could be a temporary VAT reduction. I have heard you say that this should be a smart VAT reduction, tailored to energy and looking at possible corrections, and not a reduction in VAT that will reduce people's pay. I don't think anyone here can be in favour of an index jump. Another piste we can definitely look at is an energy check, a basic energy package. What is important to our group is firstly that the most vulnerable should be permanently protected and secondly that action should be taken quickly for all those other people who are at the mercy of the water. Finally, I repeat my call to play our role from a political point of view, in which cooperation is a key word. I hear a federal government putting all the pistes on the table and looking at the best way to intervene quickly, and then I ask the Flemish level to put its money into the bag and work together to lighten those invoices.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u39	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Cogolati's 55023292C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u40	Mr President, Minister, my question dates from the night we heard that the Flemish Energy Supplier went bankrupt. In the meantime, some time has passed. Specific comments on that bankruptcy are therefore not really necessary anymore. The biggest problem with failure of energy suppliers is that customers are affected up to three times. The first problem is that they risk losing the advances they have paid and which were sometimes too high. A second problem is that these people in Flanders then end up at an emergency rate of Fluvius, which is a particularly expensive rate. A third problem is that it is currently not a good time to change energy suppliers. It is therefore quite difficult for the customers of energy suppliers who go bankrupt. Can the public authorities do anything about the advance payments made by customers, possibly by new protection rules? I would like to hear your opinion on this, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u41	Mr President, Mr Verduyckt, bankruptcy above all shows how exceptional the situation is. It was a healthy company with an interesting offer which, however, could not withstand the dramatically increased wholesale prices for electricity and gas this winter. Just before the winter, already in September 2021, I had asked the CREG how serious the risk of bankruptcy was and whether there were suppliers that would be vulnerable to this. At that time, there were no indications of financial difficulties, but the CREG confirmed that this risk was real and that turned out to be a good estimate. The CREG also indicated that it would closely monitor the market together with the regional regulators. They also gave an overview of the regional emergency supply schemes that had to be activated. The payment of the financing of the social tariffs including the extension to the right holders of an increased concession was made in good time and had no influence whatsoever on the financial situation of the Flemish Energy Supplier which led to the bankruptcy. Such drastic price increases have never occurred, both on the wholesale side and on the retail side. A number of actors are certainly not up to it. Studies and discussions are currently under way at European level to see whether such price increases can be structural and whether changes should be made to European market models and regulation. In this European research, sufficient attention should be paid to a healthy mix of long and short-term contracts. However, it is necessary to consider whether minimum obligations can be imposed on suppliers, such as maintaining gas storage. It is also necessary to examine the extent to which sufficient physical capacity in production, transport and storage can protect our market against these price increases. Our transition needs to be better managed. The customers of the Flemish Energy Supplier will receive the final bill or have already done so on the basis of the meter levels passed on by the distribution system operator. The total amount of advances previously paid may then exceed actual consumption. Then the customer is a creditor and a declaration of claim can be made. This can be done until 7 December 2022. It is also conceivable that because of the high market prices the total amount is lower. In that case, the Flemish Energy Supplier has an outstanding claim on the customer for this amount. Then I come to the protection rules relating to advances. That bill is in full preparation. We have already received the opinion of the Council of State, but we still need an opinion from the Data Protection Authority. Then we can table the law in Parliament. I'd like to place a pair thesis. We will also consider in the IKW whether we should not tighten that further. After all, we see that these market practices with regard to advances continue to continue. I really want to take another critical look at whether what we have perceived at the time of the budget conclave is sufficiently strong and whether we should not act anymore and better. Then I get into trouble with the other suppliers. Supplier Watz was recently denied access to the grid. Yesterday I asked the CREG to update their analysis of the risk of bankruptcy of October 2021. With regard to the excess profits, it is about people enjoying benefits, but there are also, of course, risks, for example, from suppliers. They need to be mapped.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u42	Madam Secretary, you said that a supplier going bankrupt is an exceptional fact. These are also exceptional times, of course, with high energy prices. One should not be an economist to understand why companies which have concluded fixed contracts at low prices are in trouble. In the meantime, we have been able to read about others who have problems. For me, customer protection is paramount. If they become creditors, they will indeed be at the very bottom of the line. I am glad to hear that there is legislative work to be done. That seems very important to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u43	Mr Verduyckt, I have asked my administration to prepare the implementing decisions with the information provided by the CREG and the suppliers of heat. These were delivered last Friday, on 14 January 2022. This concerns two issues, namely an KB that defines the methodology behind the maximum price and an KB that determines the reference price and the set-off of the claims. Soon the proposal of my administration will be discussed again with the CREG and the suppliers of heat. Then we'll clear the open points. Consultations with the Regions will follow as soon as the implementing decisions within the Government have been discussed. I want to be done with that by the end of February. As soon as the law has several provisions in force, as mentioned above, which are now before the Data Protection Authority for its opinion, the Royal Decree of 28 June 2009 on the automatic application of the maximum prices will also have to be amended. We're working on that, too. The social tariff is a derived right. The statutes that entitle it are always known afterwards in the databases that the FPS Economy consults. That data is updated every trimester. For example, the first trimester of the year will be processed in April and the duty will apply from 1 January. The result is known in May at the latest. That process is then repeated before the subsequent trimester and so on. The social rate therefore always works with a certain retroactivity. This will allow entry into force on 1 January 2022. The retroactivity, built into the operation of the social tariff, avoids the need to provide for a specific legal provision on retroactive effect, on which the Council of State also made comments. Together, we will do everything in our power to ensure that the legal basis, implementing decisions, the privacy clearances and the practical administrative systems behind the social tariff are completed as soon as possible. This should be done before the end of the first trimester, in order to ensure its application from 1 January 2022. Mr Verduyckt, I would like to thank you for your constant questions on this subject. It is close to you and me, because it is a necessary structural element for the transition. For example, we need to ensure that the heat grids in social housing become profitable. Undoubtedly, your question is also prompted by the many feedback from the sector, from social housing companies, for example, who want to get their social housing off the gas. In addition, the social tariff is a crucial factor. You will undoubtedly notice that we continue to work steadily to get everything on track.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u44	Madam Secretary, your answer will do for me. The feedback and some urban projects help me to see the social rate as a valuable addition to our energy landscape. That explains my questions about timing and the state of play. I thank you for the information you have provided, and I thank you for continuing to do so, in such a way that we may welcome further measures on this matter in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u45	Madam Minister, Promaz, the fund responsible for the clean-up of contaminated land by leaking fuel oil tanks from private individuals was finally officially recognised on 25 November 2021. You said at the end of December that you expected its operationality in the spring. That's good news. I will certainly not deny that in May you played a role in pulling this dossier out of the mud, which is important for a number of people in this country, especially in Flanders. I have a number of questions about the upper limit that is being assessed in the interim for the regional policy framework on the phasing-out of fuel oil policy and the possible reduction in working time. How will the two funding pillars we have already mentioned last year be finally organised and motivated, given the reserve of about EUR 120 million at BOFAS? Given the new Flemish legislative framework and the differences with the other regions, can you explain the mid-term evaluation a little more? In Wallonia and Brussels, things are somewhat different. There it remains possible to install a new fuel boiler in a new house and replace an old boiler in an existing house. Is it true that for a modal fuel oil tank it would be a surcharge of EUR 59 per filling? Then I come to my question on safety net regulation. We're almost experiencing a revival of the Federal Energy Ombudsperson. I also have more questions on this matter that were suggested by the Ombudsman. Through the safety net mechanism, the CREG looks more closely at price formation. This was introduced in 2013 to better protect energy consumers. It means that price increases by energy suppliers and adjustment through indexation mechanisms can only be controlled in advance by the CREG. It not only checks whether the correct formulas and indexing parameters are used, but it can also block price increases if they deviate from developments in neighbouring countries. The Michel government abolished the safety net at the end of 2017. How do you respond to the view of the federal ombudsman who wants a safety net regulation? Do you think that the fact that the government imposes increased vigilance on the CREG, the Economic Inspectorate and the Belgian Competition Authority with monthly monitoring reports and the provisions in the energy standard with the benchmarking report in May are sufficient? The problem with the price comparison sites appears to be mainly the presentation of prices of variable contracts by playing with the quarterly index and monthly index linked to the energy exchange. You know the problem, in which customers who opt for this seemingly cheaper formula are ultimately charged to much more expensive recent index levels. In short, the postulated price differs from the invoiced price. Some suppliers ask for clearer rules for those price competitors. There is a charter from the CREG, but we know that this quality table cannot prevent customers from seeing the trees through the forest.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u46	Mr Ravyts, the non-profit organisation Promaz received the approval on 3 December 2021 to start its operation and confirmed its receipt to the Interregional Soil Reform Committee on 31 December 2021. The cooperation agreement states that the financing of Promaz will start with the EUR 120 million from the BOFAS fund. Funding through a contribution to the price of gas oil heating is currently not foreseen, but depends on the results of the number of files to be submitted at the first call. A regular evaluation is indeed foreseen to establish the activities and financial status of the non-profit organisation and, where appropriate, to intervene for any additional funding through the programme agreement. The safety net price regulation dates from a long time ago and from a completely different context. That measure was introduced at the time by Minister Vande Lanotte at the direction of the CREG because of a situation of proliferation of parameters that had no link to the energy contracts at all. During that period, gas contracts were indexed on the basis of oil parameters. There was an urgent need to do something about this and there were two ways of working. On the one hand, these indexation parameters were restricted and it was said that indexing could only be done on a quarterly basis, and on the other hand it was stipulated that all these indexation parameters should be market-related. The safety net mechanism was lifted at the end of 2017. The European Commission had explicitly requested that this be kept on a temporary basis for the sake of price regulation. The CREG was also asked to evaluate each time. So it was decided to lift this. In practice, we can see that the proliferation of indexing parameters was well controlled. For example, we have not seen the oil parameters come back. The CREG reported on 2 December 2021 that these practices are no longer under discussion. The Ombudsman keeps his finger on the pulse of reality. At the same time, it is up to the CREG to carry out market surveillance. Within this task, the regulator has been providing a monthly report since November 2021 and is immediately implementing the increased vigilance. It examines whether the prices charged on the retail market differ from or differ significantly from the wholesale market. As long as this is not the case and we can therefore assume that suppliers pass on the right prices to their customers, I do not think it is necessary to extend the demand for supervision further. The fact that this monitoring works and that it is sufficient to address and address concrete malpractices is also demonstrated by the CREG warning on a supplier's gaming strategy. Questions will follow later today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u47	If there is no objection to this, we shall proceed immediately to that point. Do you have a reply now?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u48	For the sake of courtesy, I would like to thank the Minister for the update on Promaz. It is good news that we can finally start with this. Thank you for giving us a state of affairs, including in terms of funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u49	Mr President, Mr Wollants, I have not yet had contact with my new Dutch colleague, Mr Rob Jetten. However, that is certainly a subject that we can discuss as soon as we meet. Maybe that's already this weekend at the Energy Council. In the Netherlands, customers have only one contract, with a free cancellation option, unlike the Belgian market where each consumer can cancel his contract free of charge and switch to another supplier within the month. Following the transposition of the European EMD Directive, this period will be even shorter, up to a maximum of three weeks. Standardized contract types can bring greater transparency to the market. If that can work well, of course we would like to include these elements in our Belgian analysis. The model contract should allow, among other things, small consumers to easily compare the offers made by energy suppliers. The contract terms of the model contract are based on a good legal position of the small consumer and have no surprises. For this purpose, the CREG scan exists in Belgium. The CREG scan is a positioning tool that aims to map out the current situation in the energy market. The CREG scan makes it possible to compare a product that is no longer offered with the current market supply of electricity or natural gas products. The CREG scan contained all electricity and natural gas products still under contract. These are active and dormant products that are or were available to all consumers. Although we do not have a standard contract, we will soon have the simplified invoice. It will be able to provide a better comparison at the level of the invoice. That is why everything has been put into effect. We are now looking at the suppliers to actually implement this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u50	Madam Minister, it might be useful to look at the experience in the Netherlands. Even with the CREG scan, the V test and the standardised invoice and so on, we do have some problems letting consumers find the trees through the forest. These contracts are very difficult to compare. I am not speaking about whether we should introduce that model contract immediately. However, it is interesting to be able to organise the comparability between a number of suppliers for a basic offer. I look forward to the experiences that can be shared in the future. This is an innovation that may not be relevant to the current price crisis, but in the long term this may be an idea. That needs to be figured out.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u51	Mr President, Madam Minister, this new regulation came into force on 1 January. It introduced new obligations for energy suppliers, which of course we have also supported. According to the Federal Ombudsman, there is a problem with some energy suppliers. For contracts of indefinite duration, the new law clearly states that the element of the contractual price guarantee must be respected, in particular in Article 3, §11, 2.2: " (...) where the contract of indefinite duration of a household customer or SME is no longer an active product and is not subject to a contractual price guarantee'. A second element is the express confirmation of consent via a letter or other durable data medium. The Ombudsman received several complaints about a supplier who made to his customers with an indefinite contract with a price guarantee for, for example, three years, a proposal to change the contract whereby the customer is presented with a variable contract and is described in correspondence rather flou that the customer should do nothing for this purpose. However, the supplier must legally request the express consent of the customer and the supplier must respect the current price guarantee. A confirmation is not required when the supplier has offered the cheapest equivalent product in the contract renewal proposal and has indicated that a switch to this product will take place without reaction. So my impression is that the amended legislation on dormant contracts is actually being used almost improperly in the new context of very high prices to get rid of adverse fixed contracts. What's your reaction? Will you raise this in your report, I believe, with the energy suppliers and, of course, with Mrs De Bleeker and the Economic Inspectorate?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u52	Mr President, Minister, we are now in an exceptional situation in which energy prices are falling apart. Hence my questions. Do you expect the cheapest equivalent product to be more expensive than the sleeping energy contract that one now has? In other words, could it be more advantageous for a family or an SME to retain an old energy contract? Can a family or an SME refuse such a new contract proposal that they will receive from a supplier under this new scheme, which entered into force on 1 January 2022, if they see that this is not more advantageous to them? Have you already consulted the energy suppliers in connection with the new regulations?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u53	Mr President, Minister, the introduction has already been made. We passed that law here, long before the current energy crisis, or at least energy price crisis. The question is how we should deal with it now. There are two dates that are important for the sleeping products. On 1 January, the dormant renewal products were extended. On 1 March the dormant energy contracts of indefinite duration. The question is whether this is always in the interests of the customers. What are we supposed to learn from this? I come to my specific questions. What assessment do you make of this potentially unfortunate coincidence? Could consumers find themselves in a less favourable situation than dormant renewal products? Does the same apply to contracts of indefinite duration? Is it appropriate to postpone the dates contained in certain parts of this law? In what way can that happen? One of those two dates has already passed. So it doesn't seem so simple to me. Finally, have you been in contact with the energy sector and with the regulator?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have, of course, already had contact with the regulator on this matter during the holidays. In this case, it was about a specific situation. I was alerted by the Economic Inspectorate and also by the CREG itself. They both follow up on the case further and determine whether it was a misunderstanding, as the supplier in question pointed out, or whether there is indeed a problem. My view is that if the supplier has made a human mistake, it is up to the supplier to correct that mistake. I have seen that the supplier has communicated that the customers affected "can turn to..." Of course, it doesn't work that way. Whoever makes the mistake must fix the mistake. That is also the feedback I gave to the CREG, which conducts the talks with the supplier. In this situation, it was a price guarantee. A contract was concluded between the supplier and the customer, which included a price guarantee. The supplier actually cancelled that price guarantee by forcing the customer into a new product. So it's an improper termination. In fact, legal is even a wrong word. It's a wrong termination of the contract. It has nothing to do with the regulation of dormant contracts. Your questions were also the questions I asked myself when this problem came up. Indeed, it is possible that a supplier will be required by the entry into force to terminate a dormant product and propose a new product that is more expensive than the dormant equivalent. When the old product is no longer actively offered on the market, the law does not allow that product to be retained. When the supplier makes a new contract proposal, the consumer will also be clearly informed about the supplier's full, active offer and will be given the choice of whether or not to subscribe to one of those products. It is only when the consumer does not answer the supplier's proposal or rejects that the cheapest equivalent product of the dormant product is automatically applied by the supplier. The legislation in this area was adopted here on the initiative of the committee. The feedback I received from the CREG was that the vast majority of dormant customers still do well to get out of the sleeping contract, even with current energy prices, which says something about the rates of the dormant contracts. The legal initiative that has been taken on this issue was therefore absolutely also on the agenda. We can, of course, always ask the CREG for a deeper analysis. We can also ask whether it is necessary to update the legislation in the light of current high and volatile prices, but I would like to leave the initiative with Parliament, since you were the first pen holder of the scheme. Of course, you can count on all my support. I shall return to the specific situation of the case. When a supplier terminates a contract with an active price guarantee, it is a commercial choice of the supplier and not the legal requirement. This practice also makes it clear that postponing entry into force would not necessarily lead to much improvement. I was in any case open to an evaluation in that area. We are first following the entry into force of the CREG, which carries out its legal task in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u55	Madam Minister, I do not quite understand how I should read the ban on products that are no longer actively offered in Article 3. I thought that article should be read together with the notion that the product is not subject to a contractual price guarantee. I mean that the element of the price guarantee must always be respected. If the supplier offers an equivalent product, must the element of the price guarantee be respected, or do I misunderstand? Both provisions must be read together with a view to their application on 1 March, as Mr Wollants rightly pointed out.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u56	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. When we passed the bill, we had no idea that prices would be so high. So the context has changed. That is why there is this concern. It seems to me that the committee can certainly make use of your valuable suggestion to ask the CREG for a more detailed examination. It would be helpful if the CREG provided us with more information on the file. I have also noted that it is still interesting to switch to a new contract in the majority of cases. However, I have not received an answer as to whether consumers can effectively refuse to switch. However, I may have missed that answer. I thank you, but I hope that we will be able to discuss the matter with the CREG soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u57	Madam Minister, I too would like to thank you for your reply. We need to look at this again. I follow Mrs Dierick's suggestion that we should ask the CREG to provide more information on the dossier. Can the committee secretariat ask the CREG to advise us on this, given that the deadline of 1 March 2022 is relatively close? If legislative initiatives are still to be taken on the subject, it would seem useful to do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u58	Madam Minister, this is yet another follow-up question on a problem that has been going on for a long time. The CREG has been waiting a long time for a new chairman and in the meantime also for a new management committee. In October, you replied that you had instructed Selor to initiate the procedure and that that would also apply to the Energy Ombudsperson. I have looked for that, but I have not yet found any new procedure with Selor for the chairman and members of the Management Committee, nor for the ombudsmen's service. Can you give me an update so that we know if there is any improvement in the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u59	Madam Secretary, I too am surprised. The CREG is a very important institution, even more important in the current context. The fact that such a delay is taking place raises the question of whether you consider the CREG to be important. Do you not think that there is a need for a full board of directors to be given a clear mandate? Kwatongen would claim that the longer one waits, the more uncertain the situation becomes and the less one knocks on the table when it is needed. That is a bit naughty, but there is a concern, especially now that you are outsourcing certain tasks which are still assigned to the CREG to Elijah.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u60	Colleagues, as Mr Wollants says, this is certainly not the first time we have discussed this issue and I would like to thank you specifically for the follow-up questions. I refer to what has been said here before. It is not because no new Management Committee has been appointed that the present Management Committee would not have full competence, quite the contrary. Mr Leysen, I don't know how you think that would matter to me. I think that's very important, and it's not the first time I've said that. Together with you, I await the publication of the procedure for the vacancies, not only for the Executive Committee of the CREG, but also for the ombudsdienst. What happened in the meantime? We haven't been idle. Indeed, in October, I told Selor that I had instructed Selor to launch the procedure for the chairman and management committee of the CREG and of the ombuds service. There have been several consultations with my services on this subject, but it has not yet been published. We understand that there are a lot of vacancies in the federal government that have to be filled, which explains Selor's workload, as well as the fact that the relevant vacancies have not yet been published. We will, of course, continue to follow up the dossier so that the procedure can be started soon. The CREG is under Parliament's supervision. So maybe you can help me. Maybe the committee can turn to Selor. You can say from your supervisory point of view that you, like the Minister, are waiting for some urgency in this matter. I can only suggest that. Anyway, I'm staying with Selor. On the last Friday before the holiday there was another consultation, where the job profiles were also knocked off. In any case, we will assume our responsibilities. I'm not gonna shove anything off here. However, perhaps it can impress, given the role of Parliament in relation to the CREG. However, this proposal is totally non-binding. You'll do whatever you want with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u61	Madam Minister, the ferocity of your answer shows that it bothers you that it takes so long. That is a good thing. We absolutely must take steps forward. By the way, I have put my question relatively well, especially to ensure that steps are taken forward. I do not know where Selor's file is and who is sticking sticks in the wheels, but if you need the support of Parliament to get that settled and it helps pressure Parliament to move forward, then I am your first in favour. Now that the committee is sending letters, perhaps we can draw up a letter expressing our dissatisfaction with the standstill. We'd be happy to do that. You will remember, moreover, that, following my question about the Disciplinary Board of the CREG, you suggested that I take action with the President of the Chamber. In the meantime, I have done so, although it has resulted in a new call than in another initiative. In any case, it is necessary for Parliament, as the direct supervisor of the CREG, to play its role and not to be pro forma. Mr President, I am absolutely in favour of a clear question from our committee to continue the procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u62	Mr Wollants, I can only agree with that, especially since it is an institution of Parliament. For the future, the appointment procedure may need to be reviewed, not only in order to ascertain whether it is properly with the government, but also in order to determine whether Parliament should play a more active role. We'll work on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u63	Mr Wollants, the Social Heating Fund has prepared an annual report for 2020 which was approved by the Management Board on 12 March 2021, which has not yet been published on the website for organisational reasons. I asked the fund to take stock of this as soon as possible so that everyone could see this annual report, as has always been the case. It is true that fuel oil prices have not risen sufficiently to have an effect on the allowances granted by the Social Heating Fund today. The calculation of the reference threshold is based on a five-yearly average of the fuel oil price. The cheap year 2016 is no longer included, but recent increases are also not included. The reference threshold shall also be adjusted only where the derogation in respect of the previous reference threshold is higher than EUR 5 cents. That is not the case. The heating allowance remains in the stairs below 97 euro cents, giving a heating allowance of 14 euro cents per litre. The maximum intervention is 1,500 litres, which amounts to 210 euros. The previous reference threshold was 77 euro cents. The new reference threshold was 78 euro cents and therefore there was no increase. In collaboration with Minister Lalieux, I asked the AD Energy and the PPS Social Integration to carry out a study on the impact of the energy funds. I await the results, but the scale and methods of calculation of the allowances will be analysed. The Social Heating Fund was initially established as a crisis fund that intervened only in winter, but it has been a permanent fund for several years. I think it is time to make an evaluation and, together with the actors concerned, consider whether changes and improvements are necessary and what form they should take.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u64	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I look forward to the annual report in order to follow up on a number of issues. I think it is a good thing that all these funds are put together, because I note that the number of applications made through the Social Heating Fund, which also refers more or less to those entitled to an increased allowance, is much lower than what is currently being granted through the social tariff on the basis of roughly the same parameters. We need to look at what is the reason for this and what is the common basis. There are about 80,000 applications for the Social Heating Fund. This is a very different story for the social tariff of gas, while the number of users is not so far apart.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u65	Mr President, Madam Minister, on December 24, 2021, we were told that the CREG had observed "gaming" practices in the head of the energy supplier Mega, which "goes very regularly from monthly indexing to quarterly indexing, but also from spot parameters to forward parameters, and vice versa". According to CREG, this practice would allow the supplier to value its offers in price comparators, which is a lack of transparency, and could consist of misleading the consumer. Minister, on the basis of these facts, my questions are as follows. Can we have your general feedback on this information? We know that your colleague in charge of consumer protection has charged the Economic Inspectorate with carrying out a survey. Can we get information about contacts with your colleague in this regard? Have any initiatives been considered to prevent such practices, particularly if the conclusions of the CREG were confirmed by the Economic Inspectorate? Have any contacts been made with the supplier in question? If so, can we learn more about this? Can we be informed of the state of cooperation between CREG and the supplier, as well as the follow-up to be carried out by the regulator? Has this problem been or will it be addressed in the discussions on the revision of the consumer agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u66	Madam Minister, the CREG warned in its latest report that various energy suppliers are trying to manipulate price competitors by adjusting their price parameters in such a way that they are the most advantageous from the comparison, even though in reality they are more expensive. They do this each time by adapting their tariff parameters to the most advantageous index at the time. If it is the monthly index, they adjust their rate to the monthly index; if it is the quarterly index, they adjust their rates to the quarterly index. Madam Minister, you yourself have repeatedly pointed out that people must be able to compare their contracts as best they can. You always call on people to apply the CREG scan or the V test or other regional variants. Now it turns out that those price-comparisons aren't really so sanctifying, and sometimes they can be deceptive. My questions to you are simple, Madam Secretary. What will you do about this? How will you prevent the manipulation or deception of the price comparison so that people are really well informed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am of course concerned about the lack of transparency in the market. The "gaming" practices denounced by CREG are indeed also observed by the Economic Inspectorate. In collaboration with the other ministers responsible for this matter, I am therefore trying to find a solution to avoid this lack of transparency. In the present case, the supplier had already been contacted by CREG as part of the publication of its report. A follow-up meeting with this supplier is scheduled this week. It is clear that I would like to address this issue in the discussions on the revision of the consumer agreement. The problem will also be analysed by CREG on a monthly basis. Follow-up is therefore carried out both by the CREG and by me. In my view, it is important that the analysis be continued in a more in-depth but also broader context, which is not a matter for me alone. Price comparators are also subject to regional jurisdiction. There is mention here of "gaming" as regards indexing parameters, but it must also be taken into account that several suppliers have different products and develop a strategy allowing the best-priced product to be displayed at the top of the price comparison list, with the most expensive products appearing lower in the list. When a consumer identifies a product that appears to be the cheapest, this product is difficult to find on the website. This practice must also be analysed. Misdirection can also be caused by omission or lack of clarity. A consumer comes out on a supplier's product through the price comparison, but may only remember the supplier's name. On the supplier's website, the consumer does not find that cheapest product, so he subscribes to another product, which turns out to be more expensive. This should be part of a thorough analysis and broader reflection. We can go both ways in there. A thinking slope may mean that there must be fewer products, in which we seek a simplification. This may conflict with the view that more products lead to more competition. So I do not want to come to an easy conclusion. A conclusion is premature if we do not have a broader evaluation or reflection. However, it is a matter of concern to me. Such matters also show that a review of the consumer agreement is very important, but also a complex exercise. With regard to Mr Warmoes' question, I would like to point out that this is not a question of misleading price comparison. In itself, suppliers do not benefit from the provision of incomplete information, on the contrary. It will therefore be important to follow closely the CREG's reports on price developments and, if necessary, to examine further consumer support. I would like to stress that it is still important for a good understanding of a contract to consult the tariff card at all times. With the CREG scan, a consumer can compare his contract in the market. I refer to the discussion in dealing with the previous question on dormant products.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u68	Mr. Ben Accour has no reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u69	Madam Secretary, it looks like a situation without a solution if you say that we can go both ways. Another piste may be that we take energy production and energy sales into our own hands and provide objective information, so that we deliver green energy to the people as cheaply as possible. However, as a supporter of a liberal market, that is not an option for you. You're actually asking people to figure it all out themselves, and on the basis of influenced information, so I'll put it. You call it positive when there are a lot of different products available, but it is simply impossible for people to find their business in all these rates. The fare card and the CREG scan may be good for university-educated people, but most people can't just do that. In addition, there is influence, including of the indices. Players try to increase their market share by any means possible, preferably legal, but sometimes illegal. It's part of the free market. We remain in favour of taking the energy sector into public hands. That is the only way to inform people properly and objectively and to have a good, green and cheap product.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u70	The adjustment of the parameters to the most advantageous index, monthly or quarterly, was indeed linked to the reception network. You replied. I have to join Mr Warmoes very carefully. If this situation lasts a long time with very high prices, we will still be faced with some sort of game changer. You said today that we are also working on the market models at European level. You yourself said that, in the light of the new circumstances, the updating of the consumer agreement is becoming a very complex matter. In such a context as we know it today, can we not be helped in a different way in terms of transparency than with those price-comparisons?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u71	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u72	Mrs Dierick, the problem mentioned is with the energy supplier OCTA+. The issue is the subject of an investigation over the next few days by the Economic Inspectorate, which collected the complaints last week and already stated that it can share its report on this matter. In any case, it is not an obligation for suppliers to pass on the imbalance costs to consumers. The way OCTA+ implements the measure is certainly not common. For January, the tariff increases were not yet included in the tariff card. This does not allow consumers to compare their contracts sufficiently in the market. The CREG has therefore contacted the supplier to at least increase the transparency of such transfer. For a customer who currently has a contract with OCTA+, the following is recommended. If the customer currently has a fixed price contract and his use is not close to 0, we recommend not to cancel the current contract to avoid exposure to current high market prices. If the customer has a fixed price contract with a use of almost 0 or the customer has a variable price contract, then the customer will certainly benefit from a change of supplier. A residential customer always has the possibility to cancel his contract at any time, provided that a notice period of 1 month and without charge. So it's important to consult the price competitors to choose a new supplier. The situation is closely monitored, in the first line by the competent authorities: the Economic Inspection and the CREG. We are further informed of this in order, if necessary, to take the necessary measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for your very clear answer. We are indeed looking forward to the report of the Economic Inspectorate and the CREG. Your tips for customers are also an important hold. It is a sign that some energy suppliers do not take it too close. We should think about taking measures to bring such cowboys more into line with the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u74	Madam Minister, the decision to take a nuclear trip has a major impact not only on our energy policy, but also on the many jobs in nuclear power plants and nuclear research. It is afraid to wait and see what the consequences will be for this sector and employment. In the meantime, we know that ENGIE Electrabel gives its employees an additional annual wage. In doing so, the company hopes to keep its young workers on board long enough to keep the nuclear power plants running until the end date. Sometimes it is even one crucial staff member who has to keep the nuclear power plant running. In many countries, staff in the nuclear sector have more job security. There is also a risk of uncertainty for the personnel involved in nuclear research. What initiatives do you take, together with your colleagues in the task force, to clarify the staff in the nuclear sector? Will you develop a policy framework in the short term to safeguard the funding of our nuclear institutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u75	Thank you for your questions, Mrs Verhaert. These relate to two aspects: nuclear power stations and research institutes. As far as nuclear power stations are concerned, you are right to point out that it is the responsibility of the operator to have sufficient staff at all times. That's a security requirement, followed up by the FANC, under the custody of my colleague, Minister of the Interior Verlinden. At the federal level, Mr Dermagne also follows the impact of the closure of nuclear power stations, under his authority as Minister of Work. Therefore, both ministers and I form the federal task force together, to bring things together and to coordinate well so that we certainly do not have to refer to each other. This is how coordination is done in order to ensure that the closure of nuclear power stations is as smooth as possible. However, this does not mean that we are taking over each other's powers. I am sure you will be able to contact my colleagues as well. As for the nuclear institutions, in the Kempen, but also the Institute for Radio Elements (IRE), I refer to questions asked earlier and to my policy paper. As I have said before, there are new projects under the SCK and IRE Relance Plan in the field of medical radioisotopes. In addition, the SCK is also working on a project to develop innovative decommissioning techniques, in order to be able to use them in Belgian and later in foreign decommissioning projects. That is one way to continue to exploit the expertise of our nuclear institutions, also in a context of nuclear exit. In addition, we will continue to support the MYRRHA. I also make the link with the SMR's small modular reactors or small modular reactors that were discussed earlier in this committee, where we will give the SCK an additional mandate and ask for a technological roadmap to be drawn up. Today there are about seventy designs on SMRs. With the government we have set criteria, now we want to map out the possibilities. Thus, when it comes to innovation, it relates both to medical radioisotopes, not only for diagnostic purposes, but also for therapeutic purposes, and to other ways of producing them, as well as to the core technology of the future. We are counting on our nuclear institutions to do so, and we are therefore releasing the necessary resources for it. This is also expressed in the annual amount for the SCK and it is by no means intended to question it. No one is doing that at the moment either. However, we are working on a management contract to further develop the functioning of the SCK and are talking about it with the institution. As you know, it was an explicit question for the Court of Auditors to be able to work with such policy instruments. As mentioned above, Minister Dermagne and I, together with Secretary of State Dermine, have brought together a number of industry experts to identify a structuring activity on the decommissioning of nuclear power plants which should enable employment in the sector to be maintained or even increased, to anchor the activities of decommissioning in Belgium and to develop Belgian knowledge in this area in order to export it. The conclusions have now been proposed and published on the website of the FPS Economy. We continue to appreciate and boost the nuclear expertise in our country as a government. I have always had a good discussion with the Regional Platform Kempen to hear and respond to the questions and needs from their perspective.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u76	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I would like to know a little more about what is going to come out of this task force, in particular about the composition, the work plan and evolution. The task force was set up six months ago. It remains important for workers to know that they are well taken care of. This clarity is also important for the institutions that are financially dependent on nuclear reactors, such as the FANC. I am also pleased to hear that the MYRRHA project will continue to be supported. Finally, I would like to insist on an important decision on the geological disposal of high-level radioactive waste, something that ENGIE has repeatedly mentioned in the Nuclear Safety Committee. I will be submitting another question on this shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u77	Mr President, Minister, at the beginning of this sitting you said that you were considering going even further than what was agreed in October 2021. In plenary, you have already announced a number of times that you are planning a legal initiative on advance invoices, supported by the Prime Minister. This question relates specifically to cancellation fees for variable contracts. Suppliers charge customers who cancel a variable contract a fixed fee, the annual fee, apparently. You want to limit that and choose six months as a critical threshold. Anyone who was only a customer for six months may be charged a fee pro rata, but not an annual fee. Specialists responded to your proposal with the criticism that this could have undesirable consequences for consumers who cancel their fixed contract early. According to the Federal Ombudsman, your proposal could upset the balance with suppliers, making suppliers stricter for fixed contracts, no longer applying the pro-rata rule, but a year's delay. The annual suspension fee was imposed in 2012 as a result of the ban on the termination fee. The general terms and conditions were adjusted so that a fixed fee can be charged per starting year. So it's actually an alternative slope for the cancellation fee. The fourth electricity directive is, of course, also playing with this in the background. Especially for variable contracts, no cancellation fees can be charged. In the case of fixed contracts, this can only be done if the remuneration is transparent and proportionate to the losses incurred by the supplier, and with the regulator's supervision. That is the spirit of the fourth electricity directive. The FEBEG is, in turn, a requesting party for the introduction of a cancellation fee for fixed contracts, but not for variable contracts. There is nothing about this in the transposition of the directive at issue, which you have been working on, I believe. What's your reaction? Can you explain more about your initiative or your vision on termination fees for variable contracts?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u78	Mr President, Mr Ravyts, first of all, I would like to use your question to clarify the situation raised in the media, as well as to explain the terms used in it. A cancellation fee is prohibited by law. Anyone who cancels his contract will do so at no cost. There is of course the fixed fee, which suppliers often charge, being a kind of subscription fee or service fee, depending on who is spoken to and the wording given to it. This compensation is the fixed component of the price formula, for which rules already exist in the consumer agreement today. It's those rules for variable contracts that we want to transfer to the law. In this respect, suppliers may only charge the fixed fee pro rata for those who terminate their contract after six months. In the case of a variable contract, that fee is therefore charged pro rata after six months. For customers who cancel their contract before the expiry of those six months, the supplier will charge a maximum fixed fee of six months. For customers, this change is only positive. The risk raised by the Ombudsman is not a consequence of the proposed legislative amendment. It is, in itself, regrettable that the amendment, which does require additional efforts from suppliers and is an additional protection for customers, is thus perceived by the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman has always stated that the fixed remuneration for him is a hidden termination fee. I understand that there has also been a court procedure in this area. The judge did not follow that view. However, there are effective questions about fixed remuneration, in particular whether it should be charged each year for a full year, or whether it should be charged pro rata. I oppose the colour given to the file. I don't blame you. You take over the terms used by others. However, it concerns the fixed remuneration, which sensu stricto is not a cancellation fee. More generally, you ask for my vision. You referred to FEBEG. The government is not in favour of reintroducing a cancellation fee in the usual sense of the word. It wants to stick to the rules that exist today, namely that consumers can change every month without costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u79	Madam Minister, thank you for clarifying the media article. It is, of course, a complex issue, but we can see that this independent federal ombudsman has been emerging more and more recently in the debates. Sometimes there's some noise on the ether. He also interprets certain legislation in a particular direction, suggests a number of things in a particular direction. Perhaps this committee should also discuss a number of topical issues with the Federal Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u80	Madam Minister, last week the VREG published the first figures for the construction of the energy prices of January. We have just referred to that. This is the first month in which the energy standard applies. That is also true, because for a standard consumption of gas, the component Charges and Transport has decreased by around €2.50 and with a standard consumption of electricity, €41 has disappeared from the transmission charging component and the transmission charging component has been increased by €41.37. Net thus appears to be a decrease of 2,75 euros without VAT. That seems to be less than initially announced. You spoke in the past of EUR 26 million that would be used to intervene in the invoices of families. If we divide that into five million families, we will be looking at a slightly higher figure. Are these also the figures available to your administration or do you think that the figures of the VREG need to be adjusted?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u81	Mr Wollants, these are not the figures I have at my disposal. The conversion to excise duty is primarily an avoided cost increase compared to reference year 2021. Normally, the federal tax on energy bills for a family would have increased by 30 euros in 2022 by an increase in the Offshore supplement and the federal contribution to electricity and gas. By introducing and fixing excise duty at 2021, we will avoid passing the additional costs on to consumers in 2022. The non-calculation of these costs is not in itself mentioned here by you, but this is the measure that involves the greatest costs for the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u82	My question was, in particular, whether it was true that the energy bill for citizens actually fell by EUR 2.75 as a result of the excise duty operation. That's right. There is indeed a whole series of avoided costs and things that you do not charge in the invoice, but if we look at what someone sees on his energy bill in 2021 and 2022, then the federal government has paid off 2.75 euros. That is very thin and quite different from what you put on the market as an invoice that drops by 30 euros. It does not increase by 27 other euros, I can see that, but the difference is very limited. It is therefore a pity to note that your President has just referred to the Flemish Government to say that the invoice has not fallen enough, while EUR 105 per family has been collected there. It's all hard to follow anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u83	Madam Minister, the extended social tariff will no longer be granted as of the end of March following the government's decision. If the measure is not extended, 400,000 families will be forced to enter into a new, expensive commercial contract, which will be a huge price shock for those involved. Last week, the Network called against Poverty and SAAMO, the former organisation Society Building, to make the extensive social tariff permanent. It goes without saying that we support their call, which we ourselves have already made before. As far as we are concerned, this must go hand in hand with a reduction in VAT for the broad working population. For us, it is an en-en-story: the social tariff must at last be made permanently dependent on income and VAT reduced. Will the government make the extension of the social tariff permanent? If that is not the case, will you at least extend the scheme? In the 2022 budget, funds are earmarked for the transition from the social tariff, but we are not entirely clear on what this money is intended for.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u84	Mr Warmoes, when a supplier finds out that a customer was not actually entitled to a social tariff until after the termination, he also applies the cheapest equivalent product for the non-covered period. It is known in advance when the social tariff for people with increased benefits ends. This is not the case with the classic categories. In particular for the beneficiaries concerned, in the preliminary draft law, several provisions, which we discussed earlier today, have provided the legal basis for the phasing-out fee. The relevant budgets will be examined in the context of budgetary control, at the time when we planned the evaluation, in order to make it more concrete afterwards. In the light of the volatile energy market, the issue is, of course, also taken into account. The measures relating to the social tariff and the target group were conceived at a time when the estimates of the CREG indicated a fall in prices. Hence the end of the social tariff with a phase-out. At the moment, the situation is different. The new facts are, of course, taken into account in the discussions currently taking place in the government. I cannot anticipate that. In any case, the extension of the social tariff is part of the discussion and evaluation of a package of measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic656x.u85	Madam Minister, you did not say anything about the position of the poverty groups and, indeed, of us, that the social tariff must be a permanent right, based on income. You will leave the door open for an extension of this enlargement after 31 March. There are still talks in the government. I certainly welcome the extension of the measure, which we would certainly support should that be decided upon. I also took note of the phasing-out fee. If I understand correctly, that is a concession to compensate for the difference, gradually, between the social rate and the cheapest equivalent. However, this proposal will have to be made even more concrete.
