ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u1	Unlike most Member States of the European Union and members of NATO, our country did not have a national security strategy until December 2021. That is strange, because one of the basic tasks of a government is to ensure the safety of its citizens, businesses and institutions active there. The Government Declaration included that we would develop a comprehensive security strategy and on 1 December 2021 the National Security Council adopted that security strategy. This document was prepared by the Intelligence and Security Coordination Committee in a working group chaired by a Public Service of Foreign Affairs. The think thank of the Egmont Institute has organized several workshops with companies, civil society and the academic community. The word "société civile" suddenly causes a chain reaction to Mr De Roover, which is very amazing. And suddenly half the committee members come in, which is also good news. To define this strategy, we have used all the expertise available in our country, with experts in foreign policy, security and intelligence services, business and academia, etc. The guiding principle of our strategy is values and interests which, in my view, are not contradictory. We protect our interests and defend our values. It is precisely these values that distinguish us from autocracy and dictatorship. The conflict between Ukraine and Russia ultimately amounts to a conflict of values and interests. Belgium is one of the most open countries in the world. We are the third most globalized country in the world and the 26th economy. We are in the top 10 most exporting countries. Belgium is an important logistics centre and has key industries such as energy, finance, transport, communications, etc. In a number of sectors, we are truly at the forefront of progress: wind energy, the pharmaceutical industry, the maritime infrastructure, where we play a major role throughout the world. At the same time, we are also a political and diplomatic centre. There are few places in the world where there is such a concentration of diplomatic and political decisions that are taken. Maximum ten cities around the world are at the same level as Brussels and we are clearly in the top five. In Belgium there are more than 300 international diplomatic missions and more than 120 international organisations, in addition to the European Union and NATO, which everyone knows. Adding hard power and soft power, Belgium is ranked 25th in the world, while being a medium-sized country with a population of 11 million. Economic value is also very important. Three quarters of our exports focus on the European internal market, 85% of our GDP and one fifth of our jobs are related to trade. So our country's prosperity depends heavily on global developments. The same applies to our safety. In our parts we have a very long history of occupation by foreign powers, regardless of the definition that was historically used for that purpose. On this basis, our country has very often opted for a neutral position, which has not prevented us from being attacked during the First and Second World Wars. That is why, after the Second World War, our country fully opted for multilateral cooperation. We are one of the founders of the European Union, the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, the United Nations, the OSCE and so on. We are fully aware that multilateral cooperation is important to ensure our prosperity and security. We also note that, after the fall of the Berlin Wall, the European countries have generally gone too far with their defence savings. A few weeks ago, well before Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the government committed a growth path for the defence budget to 1.54% of GDP in 2030. This is an additional effort of EUR 11 billion, i.e. almost double the defence budget compared to eight years ago. It is clear, however, that this will not be enough. A NATO summit will take place in Brussels at the end of next week. It is very clear that the main demand will be to invest in operationality in the short term. This means that in the short term other demands will be made on the employability of defence. Our country must take responsibility for this. What has happened in Ukraine is a bit of our 9/11 moment for us Europeans. This will have very far-reaching consequences, clearly in the economic field but certainly also in the security field. Our national security strategy has been designed on the basis of this vision that is open to the world. For us, this vision is very important. In this context, six fundamental vital interests for the internal cohesion of our country and the sustainability of our society have been identified. First, the democratic rule of law, national resilience and the values we share. The essential mission of each government is to preserve social and political stability and the freedoms that underpin our society. Secondly, the physical security of our citizens and the territorial integrity of our country. The protection of our people is the duty of every public authority. This is a security interest in the very strict sense. Thirdly, the natural environment of our country. Climate change and the loss of biodiversity whose impact we feel confront us every day with the importance of preserving air quality, public spaces, water supply, food production, etc. Fourthly, our economic prosperity. I have already mentioned the importance of our open economy for our prosperity. Fifthly, the international order based on international law and multilateral framework. The international system of reliable and binding standards and agreements is vital for a country such as Belgium both for its trade and health policy and for human rights. Sixthly, the effective functioning of the European Union. The European Union makes it possible to best defend Belgian interests on a global scale. For example, in the case of the covid-19 pandemic and the vaccination campaign, the agreements concluded by the European Commission with suppliers and the coordination agreements concluded between the various countries were crucial for the health of our population. We note that a joint and unprecedented response by the European Union to the Russian aggression is a new dynamic that is taking place. It's, in my opinion, a good thing. Those are the six defined security interests. In addition to these security interests, we have identified the risks that could threaten these six interests. We take into account safety risks as well as security risks and risks of an accidental and intentional nature. Both Russian aggression in Ukraine and the shaky state of the sarcophagus around the exploded nuclear reactors in Chernobyl pose a safety risk. First of all, of course, a security risk for the Ukrainian people, but also for our country. Russian aggression is an example of a security risk, which is a risk of an intense nature. The situation of the Chernobyl power station is rather a safety risk, rather accidental. In any case, it is important to take into account both types of risks. The fight against organised crime requires constant attention. The results of the Sky ECC study, a breakthrough of about a year and a half ago, show us that the consequences are very far-reaching for our country. In addition, many studies have been carried out in other countries on this basis. It is essential to understand that this includes internal security as well as external security. Sky ECC is just an example, but the problem of drug trafficking is recurring. Antwerp plays a role in this, simply because it has a world port and thus forms a logistics turntable. Such matters must be an important part of our security strategy. So, on the one hand, on the other hand, on the specific nature of our country, and on the other hand, on the six vital interests and on the analysis of the threats, we then come to a series of policy priorities. The full list can be read in the document itself, but I would like to highlight a number of elements. The fight against polarisation, organised disinformation, radicalisation and conspiracy manipulation must be pursued in the protection of democracy and the rule of law. We see, among other things, in the United States how disinformation and polarisation can divide a whole society and ultimately test and weaken the foundations of a political system of democracy, which everyone thought was very resilient. This is happening not only in the United States, but also with us. For example, it is appalling to see how manifestally organized disinformation platforms around the antivax movement are skinning seamlessly into conspiracy theories that are actually becoming a kind of pro-Putin platforms. A second example is what we are doing in the area of screening mechanisms on our economic interests. For critical infrastructures, many countries have put in place mechanisms that allow adequate screening of arrival policies. For example, in transposing the 5G package of the European Commission, our country has been very strict. That's only natural, because our country has a very specific position. Because there are so many international organisations located in Belgium, it is also logical that we should have a very rigorous screening mechanism in critical infrastructure, such as telecommunications infrastructure. The federal government has been negotiating with the Länder for a year to refine that screening mechanism. Everyone is aware of the importance of this, but I hope that we can conclude this discussion quickly, because an efficient screening mechanism that takes account of the division of powers between federal and regional authorities is very important. I can also give the example of ArcelorMittal. This, together with government subsidies, invests EUR 1 billion in the production of the most sustainable steel in the world. It does that in our country, north of Ghent. However, this makes no sense if there are no internationally binding and enforceable rules in the field of environmental, climate and social standards to protect against the dumping of non-sustainable steel. It makes no sense for us to produce the most sustainable steel, with the costs and investments associated with it, if, in the meantime, unsustainable steel from China is simply dumped on our market. This brings us to the debate on the strategic autonomy of the European Union. The movement in which the European Union looks much more closely at its economic sovereignty has been going on for a few years. It seeks to strike a balance between economic sovereignty and maintaining its openness to the world. That is the delicate balance we must find. Europeans have often been a little too naive to the world in the past, but little thought has been given to economic sovereignty. That's more like a balance now. Belgium must retain a great deal of caution there. Economic sovereignty can often lead to some weakening of internal market rules, for example in the area of state aid. Then we quickly find ourselves in a situation where the big European economies have a much greater advantage over the small ones. For a small or medium-sized country, like ours, the rules on state aid and the internal market are crucial to ensure that we can fight with equal weapons. These were some examples of policy that I wanted to cite. When we talk about mitigation of threats and risks, we also talk about resilience, a central concept in this national security strategy. Cybersecurity is a very important example. Is it a coincidence that Defence was the victim of a cyberattack, as the war in Ukraine was preparing? Looking at the cyber attacks in recent years against departments such as Defence, Interior and Foreign Affairs, we find that today we are in a hybrid war situation. This new cyber security strategy, which was endorsed by the National Security Council in May last year, was long overdue, as was the increase in budget resources in this area. As can be seen, the national security strategy therefore provides a comprehensive political framework, in which strategic plans are needed, such as cybersecurity or the Comprehensive Security Note or the Strategic Plan of State Security. This national security strategy provides a framework for coordination and effective cooperation between different departments and departments at all levels of government. It should lead to a more robust security culture in our country, an increased awareness of security, not only within our country's authorities but also towards our businesses, academia, private partners, etc. I believe that this is an important element. In view of the history of our country, we are less sensitive to the security culture element than people in other countries. This has already been mentioned by several colleagues in the past. That element, safety culture, should actually go very far. In the academic world, for example, there are certain risks for which one is sometimes less sensitive. In the private sector, too, there are sometimes safety risks in certain sectors where at first sight there would be no link to safety. I would like to conclude, Mr President, with the time perspective of this strategy. If a strategy such as this is drawn up, it is not intended to apply for just a few years. For then one can never really proceed to its implementation. The perspective we need is a period of about 10 to 12 years. That may not seem that long, 10 to 12 years, but if we compare the way we looked at the world in 2010 with the way we look at the world today, I believe that a period of 10 to 12 years is the right one. Finally, this is not a purely academic exercise. It is logical that we should review what is being set out here year after year and see what punctual adjustments are needed to the international situation which often changes very quickly. This strategy was adopted in December. This time when we hold the parliamentary debate on it could hardly have been better chosen. The way we now look at security is that we now see it as an absolute priority. I am sure she will be very high on the agenda in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u2	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your explanation. What you said at the end is also why questions about the conflict in Ukraine have been added to the debate. For the latecomers, I would like to repeat that we have agreed 10 minutes of speaking time per group for the first round. I would like to ask the questioners to put their questions together with their speeches.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u3	Prime Minister, on behalf of our group, I welcome the fact that the exercise on the security strategy has been carried out and will be repeated in the future. I think that a special word of thanks to Mr Moors, your Head of Cabinet, is also appropriate for all his efforts and perseverance. It's become a fascinating piece of work, which suddenly brings me to a potential pitfall. We regret that we have to discuss the national security strategy here at two hours, because we too have tried to do our work thoroughly. We have a few comments and dozens of additional questions for clarification. We have read and analysed the national security strategy. It's about energy, defence, cyber security and Belgium in the world. That is why it is a good thing that we are discussing it in the Committee on the Interior. In view of the crisis today, I understand that you as Prime Minister cannot make a full day off, but perhaps it is not a bad idea to have the security strategy discussed in plenary. You are also talking about a period of ten to fifteen years, which extends the strategy beyond the next elections. It is therefore not a bad thing to talk about it in plenary, with all the groups. It is a pity to note that not even all the majority groups are here today - at least two are already missing - even if it concerns the national security strategy. Prime Minister, I repeat the words you said two weeks ago, words that we all had to endorse. The world, including Europe, will never be the same. What Putin is doing in Ukraine is simply terrible. The national security strategy document also mentions a possible invasion of Ukraine by Russia, so you were already working on that. I believe that Europe has changed at the moment so that the strategy may need an update. I would like to begin with two general concerns and then ask a few questions. In the meantime, however, I see the clock counting down with my speaking time, which worries me a little, because I will not be able to ask all my questions within the speaking time allocated. Mr President, we still need to discuss how to deal with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u4	Mr Metsu, the intention is simply to allow all the groups to be discussed in the first round before the Prime Minister has to leave. I do not want to limit your speaking time; I am simply trying to find a fair solution for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u5	Mr President, perhaps we should also consider at the Conference of Presidents whether it is possible to work with speaking time per effective member or per deputy member so that the size of the party can play a part. I come to two general concerns. A strategy can only work if it is also linked to KPIs. A strategy can only be evaluated if there are KPIs. We didn't find it. Is that under consideration? Can that be included in an analysis? Secondly, a strategy without capacity is a hallucination. I've heard this phrase in the past. Did you assume our current capacity to write that strategy? Is there now a strategy for which we may not have enough capacity, so we would not be able to carry it out de facto? I'm going over my questions now. Prime Minister, I shall begin with a question about the complex structure of the state. With what measures will you address and simplify the complex institutional and political structures that have grown historically? That is why we found nothing in the document on the national security strategy. Are you going to carry out an evaluation of the content of the NVR, the NVO, the CCIV and the SCIV? What is your view of the functioning of these organs? Where are improvements possible and which ones? Can you give an overview of the work of the working groups and platforms already working under these bodies? Why are they still being created? What is the scope for restructuring, but also for restructuring, if any? What should we understand when we need coherent legislation in the area of security? How can this be done? How can we stop over-regulation and the making of exceptions? In what way will all plans be aligned? I am thinking of the NVS, the KIV and the NVP, but also of the Power Plan, the Channel Plan, the Kempen-Maasplan and so on. Who will take on political coordination? That seems to us to be something for the Prime Minister. However, the national security strategy is not clear on this. Does that responsibility belong to you, yes or no? Will there also be a board table to monitor implementation? I refer again to the KPIs. My next point concerns the involvement of the Länder. We have the whole-of-government approach to the development of the NVS, the National Security Strategy. Has there been a sin against that in your opinion? Yes or no? Please acknowledge that the Länder had introduced very specific elements and that the comments were taken into account at maximum. Is that right? Is that the truth? Yes or no? Why was that said? How will the Länder be involved in the implementation of this new strategy? My second concern concerns capacity, lack of resources and people. Can you tell which of the three plans is a budget or a budget plan linked to the means to implement the plans? What resources have been allocated for this purpose? Has it been agreed at what level the budgetary effort will be made and how it can be financed? Is the strategy linked to KPIs or are you planning to? It is the third time I have asked this because we think it is very important. We have new policy orientations. Could you give us an overview of the new policy orientations and initiatives in the NVS, if necessary later? What's renewed? Then I have a question about the evaluation of the anti-terrorist measures. Will you evaluate the two anti-terror packages and then refine them and develop them further? What European legislation still needs to be implemented in Belgium? For us, the matrix that would follow the parliamentary committee of inquiry at the end of 2020 is very important. We are still waiting for that. It was promised to us by Minister Van Quickenborne and Minister Verlinden. One would be waiting for another. Unfortunately, next week we will commemorate the attacks in Maalbeek and Zaventem six years ago. Afterwards, a Chamberwide investigation report was supported by everyone, but we don't know what's happening now. Minister Verlinden has told us that there is hard work behind the scenes. That is, of course, a good thing, but we also have the right to know what we are working on and where we still have to step up our efforts. This is the urgent question to give us that table and to let us know how far you stand with it. With regard to new technology, what digital innovation and specific innovation technologies will be used in the fight against crime? For what purpose? How is privacy guaranteed? How and by whom will the monitoring of new technology take place in the framework of the strategic future analysis? Cyber safety will, unfortunately, only gain in importance in the future. People sometimes say that this is the future warfare. In this connection, I refer to the question raised about the Chinese cameras that are being used here, which I then refer to my first statement. In what way will the criminal cyber infrastructure be disrupted? What should we understand under an appropriate offensive capacity? In what way will we attribute cyberattacks? Has this happened before the attacks of the last few years, particularly those that were very recently aimed at our defence? What are we supposed to mean by active cyber diplomacy? That wasn't entirely clear to us. Can you also apply CBRN to the current threat of a nuclear attack by Russia? We read in it a passage about proliferation. Can we apply that to what could happen to Russia now? Very important is the disinformation and the fake news. Unfortunately, Fake news is also something very subjective.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u6	I want to be very clear. I didn't use the expression fake news. I've been talking about disinformation. It's not the same thing. You mean in the explanatory statement?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u7	No, not in the explanatory statement, but in the document. I certainly don't blame you, but what we can read in the document about disinformation and fake news is quite subjective. I say that because Putin is currently banishing all his fake news from Russia, which is of course hallucinating and absurd. We should definitely keep an eye on that. In what way will the resilience be developed against disinformation and fake news, in particular against enemy information operations? What will be the tasks and powers of the interdepartmental mechanisms? Who will determine what disinformation and fake news is? That is the question I have just referred to. Furthermore, there are a few things that we do not fully understand. According to the National Security Strategy, only the EU has both the relevant scale, powers and means to implement appropriate policies across the spectrum of almost all relevant threats. That's a little macroeconomic. In this context, our country will also make all necessary efforts to take responsibility for its own and common security of the EU, NATO and its Member States. It is the aim of this national security strategy that Belgium should put in place an adequate policy. Not only can we count on the EU, but we must make the necessary efforts ourselves. Should we regard that as a contradiction, yes or no, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity? What do we have to do ourselves? What should Belgium do in this case and what should the EU and NATO do? The strategy also says literally: "Parallel to authoritarianism is increasing nationalism. Patriotism creates cohesion in a country and strengthens the support of the state. Nationalism, which tends to assert itself by opposing another, strengthens competition and rivalry between states. Without effective countermeasures, both trends risk undermining their coherence and impact." It's quite a complicated sentence, may I say. We then ask ourselves what is the difference between nationalism and patriotism in your experience, and from when does the threat arise? That's not so unimportant. Competition and rivalry between states is not in itself unhealthy. One can also challenge one another economically. What do you think we should understand under healthy competition and rivalry between those states? When does it become unhealthy? From when does who have to perform? With what regulatory basis? What specific measures do you intend to take to counter the threat posed by both trends? We also read that, with weak or negative demographic growth in Europe, targeted migration growth is increasing in importance for the future of the social security system and the recruitment of labour for specific sectors. At the same time, the mitigation of the factors driving irregular migration to the EU deserves due attention. Can you clarify why targeted migration growth is gaining in importance for the future of the social security system? How is our social security system under pressure? What do you think are the remedies for that? What is meant by targeted migration growth? According to the N-VA, this is a correct term, but what exactly do you mean by targeted migration growth? In what way do you want to attract labour? That is economic migration. How will you strengthen the economic integration of newcomers from the other migration channels? What measures do you intend to take to mitigate the factors that encourage irregular migration?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u8	I would like to have all the groups discussed. Yesterday I informed all the groups that everyone has 10 minutes. I'm trying to stick to that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u9	Mr. Piedboeuf wants two hours before the national security strategy. That's unbelievable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u10	I can't fix that here. We've got till noon. I am trying to get all the groups involved, which is why the agreement was made to give 10 minutes per group.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u11	Mr. President, I assure you. I won't be that long. I was questioned by a question from my colleague, Koen Metsu, who asked you about the difference between patriotism and nationalism. This is a fairly common question in French culture. In fact, there is a quote from General de Gaulle you probably know. He said: "Patrioticism is love of his country. Nationalism is hate for others." This explanation is worth what it is worth, but in any case it is often the one given in France and Wallonia. (...): (...) who is a nationalist.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u12	He hates Russians, we understand that! (...): They are imperialists. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u13	It's an explanation that's worth what it's worth, but I like it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u14	I like it!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u15	I thought you were gonna like it, too. Prime Minister, I think you should first be congratulated on the initiative taken to define this national security strategy because, as you said in your presentation, it had not been done before. It would therefore be inappropriate to criticise you for this initiative, which was not taken by your predecessor or others. You should therefore be congratulated. Although the document is obviously not perfect, it has the merit of being there. We need this security strategy more than ever, given all the threats our country faces today. We see him every day. The document has the merit of identifying these threats. It's already a very interesting exercise that has been done. We feel that, behind all the political orientations that are defined in the document... I must confess that I have not analysed it completely yet. I read it diagonally because we didn't have much time before this presentation. The budgetary consequences of the policy guidelines will necessarily have to be mentioned. The opposition colleagues have talked about it and it makes sense. Behind the strategy, the political orientations, there are always budgetary consequences and there will clearly not be any savings in the debate on these budgetary consequences, in terms of security and defence. I believe that the latest events have somewhat overturned the maps in this area. You have to admit it. I'd like to have your light on this. In the document, you refer to the follow-up of measures through a whole-of-government approach. In other words, this follow-up is not limited to federal government initiatives, but is also concerned with the actions of federated entities. How do you envisage it? At this point, I will not ask you any further questions. In this way, I present my speaking time to colleagues for a second round. In any case, the document represents a good synthesis. Now we will have to go into the concrete aspect of things, far beyond the strategic orientations that are presented here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u16	Prime Minister De Croo, Ukraine is suffering terrible war violence. Of course, we must assume our responsibilities, all the more so because Ukraine is a European country. In the meantime, everyone will admit that the savings on Defence, the mismanagement of Defence and our security policy have placed us in a very weak position over the last few decades. Let us stop making these mistakes, and let us invest in a performance and modern defence and security device, so that we have the men and equipment we need to fulfil our role. However, there are many other lessons to be learned from the Ukraine crisis. For example, we are far too dependent on foreign energy, and that is why we need to invest massively in nuclear energy. This is the only form of energy that is reliable and self-sufficient. As far as the new refugee crisis is concerned, we must accept our responsibility. I would like to refer to your statement on the national security strategy that the fight against organised crime is very important. You cited the Sky ECC file on drug trafficking in Belgium, but human trafficking is also organised crime. I'm afraid you don't take human trafficking seriously. Last week in plenary, you said that there should be no distinction between migrants coming to Europe via Ukraine and Ukrainian refugees coming to Europe. Could you clarify that for me? We're here on the committee, you don't have to play about shame and raise the morale. Give a concrete answer to my next question. Do you really think that in Flanders and Belgium we should not distinguish between Ukrainian war refugees and a Moroccan, an Algerian or a Tunisian who takes a plane to Ukraine in North Africa and then pays a human smuggler to cross the currently chaotic Polish-Ukrainian border and thus illegally enter the territory of the European Union and abuse our asylum system? Do you think that we should not distinguish between such illegal migrants and smugglers on the one hand and genuine Ukrainian refugees on the other? Ukrainian women who come here in very difficult situations and whose men are fighting for their people and their country, should we treat illegal migrants and smugglers from North Africa in the same way? That is not explained to the people, is it? I think we should make a distinction here. By the way, in our asylum policy as a whole, the distinction between different groups of migrants and different groups of refugees is constantly being made. It is always being investigated whether the person claiming to be a refugee is a refugee and many of them are refugees, refugees or fake refugees. If they belong to this latter category, we must refuse them and we must return them to their country of origin. In this respect, there is also a very important task for us. Through Ukraine, many people will come here. Some of them are illegal migrants, people who lie, fraudsters. However, many others are people who stayed in Ukraine, but perhaps did not have Ukrainian nationality, who might have studied or worked there and come from parts of Africa or Asia. My question is therefore whether the Belgian State will grant these people the automatic status, with all the advantages such as the residence permit and the living wage. I do not think that is a good idea at all. The European Union has been very dubious in this respect and has given the Member States the choice of whether or not to do so. The plea of my group, the Flemish Interest, is very clear. We believe that the status and the great benefits should only be granted to Ukrainians and Ukrainian refugees, preferably women and children, who must flee the violence of war. Therefore, we cannot assign it to random passers-by in Ukraine, nor to North Africans or Asians who abuse the situation. Of course, we also need to get these people to safety. We leave no one behind in the violence of war. We must immediately help them to be safely repatriated to their country of origin. So we cannot keep them here in Flanders and in Belgium. However, if all these people are given a living wage, as the government and Secretary of State Mahdi spread, then we will not only find ourselves in an undesirable situation, but also in an unaffordable situation. It is already estimated that up to seven million Ukrainians will flee, and that is not unrealistic if the violence of war continues to be so and that 200,000 refugees would come to Belgium. Prime Minister De Croo, do you think it is desirable or affordable to give all these people a living wage? Or will we, as your partymate Tim Vandenput correctly suggests, help these people in a different way with, for example, weekly money and bed, bath and bread that they really need? That is what they really need, rather than an unaffordable living wage in a country whose social security is already completely bankrupt. So let us, Mr De Croo, deal with this abuse. This abuse has nothing to do with racism, because we will get that accusation right away. It only has to do with helping genuine Ukrainian refugees. We can only help these people if we distinguish between them and the many abusers, fraudsters and fake refugees.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Van Langenhove has just made very clear, the war in Ukraine has clearly demonstrated the importance of striving for energy independence. This has already been a very important debate in the past, which we have had in many committees. The situation we are now in shows once again how painful it is. The International Energy Agency has not escaped that either. Following tensions in Ukraine, they have drawn up a ten-point plan. One of these points also makes it very clear that nuclear capacity and low emission sources should be extended as much as possible. Prime Minister, we all know that Belgium depends to a limited extent on gas from Russia, but the geopolitical situation also largely determines the gas prices we are facing today. Yesterday we had a very interesting hearing in the Committee on Energy on the determination of market prices. In December 2021, you gave yourself and the government time to decide by 18 March 2022 on a possible extension of the lifetime of a number of nuclear power plants. The first concerns Objective 4 and Tihange 3. I wonder whether, in the current situation, we can wait for the date of 18 March. That is why I would like to hear from you whether you, as Prime Minister and Government, will respond to the urgent recommendation of the International Energy Agency to extend nuclear capacity as much as possible, given the current geopolitical situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u18	Mr President, I will give my colleagues minutes because I do not have the same obsessions as them and I do not bring them back to every occasion. Prime Minister, I thank you for a note that is very legible, clear and precise and has the merit, precisely, of being synthetic. There is a good identification of the risks, threats and vital interests. I want to ask you two questions, Prime Minister. First of all, you stressed that this is not a one-time element but a long-term strategy. So who will ensure that this note is updated and followed up, and how? I suppose you'll be one of the actors but you also have a lot of other things to do. Secondly, with regard to relations with federated entities, one of the major topics mentioned is cybersecurity. I know that there is the Belgian Cybersecurity Centre – and I do not want to know whether this word is patriotic or nationalist. It probably has resources, but I note that the federated entities, particularly in their stimulus plans, have not allocated much resources to this matter. I am very angry because in Wallonia it is 15 million out of 7 billion. I do not understand that so few resources can be allocated when essential elements are available in Redu with the centre of the European Space Agency and all the quantum cybersecurity that is developing. That is why I would like to know how, in this national strategy, you will encourage federated entities to allocate resources to this matter. We know that if there is no physical attack, there will be a cyber attack. In summary, who will follow up on the note? How to update it? How can we stimulate joint investment?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u19	Prime Minister, we are all grateful that this national security strategy is here, that is clear. Meanwhile, the war in Ukraine proves the usefulness and necessity of such a strategy. Indeed, some of the identified risks occur at the same time at the external borders of our Union. In recent weeks, therefore, Belgium has been united and united with all the other Member States of the European Union and NATO to respond to Russia's unacceptable aggression. This proves that it is a good thing that our national security strategy explicitly refers in a number of respects to the great importance of these partnerships. This security strategy starts from the right point of view, namely that our vision of security must also be linked to our vision of values. On this subject, the security strategy includes the following: "Belgium promotes an agenda in which democracy, human rights and the rule of law, ethical values, international solidarity, sustainability and peace building are at the heart of the agenda." The term ethical values is not further explained. Perhaps you could explain that a little more? The CD&V Group is very pleased that the national security strategy pays due attention to the risks arising from climate change. I'm glad you gave ArcelorMittal an example. Economic sovereignty must be a permanent focus, but also our fight against climate change. Volvo is also making the same efforts. In the end, these are the two largest industrial employers in Belgium. It is rightly pointed out that delaying action will be more risky and expensive than taking the necessary measures in good time. We therefore hope that in this context there will be further close cooperation between the various authorities in Belgium. Important aspects of climate policy fall within the remit of the Regions. They are a very important, crucial partner in this. Another important point for the CD&V Group is the protection of our democracy and the rule of law. The national security strategy takes a comprehensive look at the multidisciplinary approach to extremism, terrorism and the breeding grounds leading to radicalisation. To this end, of course, the strategy TER, adopted last year by the Consultative Committee, is crucial and is already in full application. In the fight against organised crime, our group is looking forward to the draft law on administrative enforcement, on which Minister for the Interior Verlinden is working. We are told that the initial discussions on this matter have begun within the government. It will be an important tool to also strengthen our local authorities in the fight against organised crime and thus make them contribute to the protection of our national security. One of the policy orientations of the national security strategy is to strengthen our resilience. In this context, reference is made, inter alia, to NATO's baseline requirements. Coordination across departments for such emergency plans in Belgium has been entrusted to the International Crisis Management Cell (ICC) of the National Crisis Centre. Taking into account NATO requirements, the NCCN launched several analyses of those baseline requirements in 2020. What is the latest state of these analyses? Does the current situation in Ukraine give rise to additional measures in this context? Our public health is also an important part of our national security. The past two years have proved that more than ever. We are therefore pleased to note that this national security strategy explicitly addresses this aspect. It is a good thing that both the European Union and the World Health Organisation continue to work on the fight against infectious diseases and the management of pandemics. A global approach is necessary. As I said at the beginning, in recent weeks we have shown that we can be stronger and more effective if we, as the European Union, are on the same page. The national security strategy therefore rightly states that diplomatic-military capacity must enable the EU to stand up for its self-preservation and become a meaningful global player. That is why, among other things, our country will argue for the move from the decision-making procedure on the common foreign and security policy to a qualified majority. What steps have been taken to this end? What is the position of the other Member States in this regard? Do you expect the current situation in Ukraine to have an impact on this? That will probably be the case. Finally, the proposed document explicitly states that the instrument of the national security strategy will be reviewed periodically. An evaluation is envisaged at the beginning of each legislature. The current developments in Ukraine obviously have a huge impact, including on our national security. Is it therefore conceivable that an evaluation of our national security strategy will take place earlier than at the beginning of the next legislature? In this way, the best possible response can be given to current developments and their impact.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u20	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your explanation of the national security strategy. It's a very clear document. It has the merit of defining security in a very broad way and of identifying security risks that require efforts and policies in various areas. It is exceptional that I speak on this subject in the Committee on the Interior, but here too we attach great importance to the foreign security of Belgium. It is clearly stated in the document: internal and external security are inextricably linked, even intertwined. The document describes a multifactorial approach: different levels of threat are considered, not only geopolitical or military, but also global inequality, climate degradation and health inequalities. I refer to the unequal access to vaccines, but one must be aware that one is not safe until the majority of the people of our planet have been vaccinated. Issues that are not often touched are the large unequal power relations, the economic inequality and the disruption caused by unequal power relations in the trade agreements, which make the global South contribute more to the development of the North than vice versa. In itself, it triggers waves of migration and, in the worst case, helps to feed terrorism, whether on a fundamentalist or religious basis. I am not talking about the destabilising effects of years of military interference, occupation or conflicts in the Middle East and Africa. Closer to our bed, the shameful invasion of the Putin regime in Ukraine, Putin's imperialism, is making more than 2 million people flee. It is therefore important to tackle not only the symptoms, security threats, instability and inequality, but also the root causes. My party is a huge supporter of multilateralism, especially at the level of the United Nations, in our view an important forum. Multilateralism is an important tool and an important strategy to tackle all forms of instability and inequality effectively. That is why very much attention is rightly paid to this issue. You have rightly also mentioned values, which we must defend and promote. After all, we owe this to an important degree of prosperity and freedom. However, I am in favour of consistent pursuit of these throughout the world. Wherever we can, we must take diplomatic action ourselves and put pressure on our allies when they violate international law or human rights. Let me give you two examples. UN Secretary António Guterres stated not so long ago that the greatest humanitarian catastrophe is currently taking place in Yemen. There is a shameful war there which is sustained for a great deal by the blockade of Saudi Arabia. In the port city of Hodeidah, millions of Yemenis have been killed in a war steadily fed by one of our allies through lucrative arms deals. Unfortunately, our country also plays a role in this. Another example of human rights violations and health inequalities is the fact that the government and the European Union are still blocking the WTO's TRIPS proposal. On the occasion of the EU-Africa Summit, a number of African Union Heads of State said that blocking TRIPS was actually a violation of human rights. I can't blame them for that. On the other hand, we welcome the fact that the document focuses on peace-building, the OSCE, disarmament and diplomacy. Our party agrees with this as the way forward to build in and build out security guarantees, especially now that a war is raging in Europe as a result of Russian aggression. I shall come back to that if I have sufficient speaking time, because I shall now turn to my questions. Prime Minister, the report also mentions a strengthening of competition between the United States and China, which is more at geopolitical level. What role should the European Union play in this increased competition or rivalry? How should Belgium and, above all, the EU relate to these two superpowers? I also have questions about cyber security. The document reports that many states use new technologies to undermine the sovereignty of other states. Recently, the private NSO Group became familiar with its Pegasus espionage software, making it very easy for certain states to intercept information or hack devices. What strategy do you follow with regard to institutions and private companies specialised in monitoring, surveillance and intercepting information? How will our country prevent such companies from taking advantage of the control or the insights they can gain in our information flows? In this connection, we recently learned from an international consortium of journalists that the Swedish company Ericsson had also cooperated with the Islamic State in Iraq. There are some reservations or doubts about this, we believe. In the area of collective defence, would you also like to use it to strengthen NATO, so that it has, I quote,'sufficient deterrent capacity to avert any military threat against our territory'? In that case, we would like to place much more emphasis on an aspect which is also contained in the document, namely investment in peace-building and multilateral arms control and disarmament. If we look at it in terms of defence or deterrent, the NATO joint budget is already responsible for more than half of all military expenditure in the world. We are more in favour of developing multilateralism and the use of diplomacy, which should also be scaled up in organisations such as the United Nations and, for example, the OSCE. We believe that the OSCE is very important, especially in the conflict that is now taking place in Ukraine. I cannot repeat enough that we are also thinking about the spirit of the Helsinki agreements. During the Cold War, the principle of indivisible security was endorsed, which means that we only feel safe when the other feels safe. This has been achieved by the arms control architecture and disarmament. In doing so, we are moving away from the action-response spiral of the military bid. A reverse spiral of relaxation, confidence and demilitarisation is being set in motion, which in itself can also create security guarantees. Belgium, for example, could take the lead in this. Thus one achieves security by demilitarisation rather than by an expensive military offer, which, ironically, is also accompanied by a lot of uncertainty, unpredictability and security risks that we just want to avoid. As far as the non-proliferation treaty is concerned, we are actually violating that treaty ourselves by putting nuclear weapons on our territory ourselves. I know that there should be no discussion on this, which I think is a lack of democracy, but there are still nuclear weapons in Kleine Brogel. On the one hand, we say that we see the Non-Proliferation Treaty as a starting point for further nuclear disarmament, but on the other hand we maintain NATO's nuclear doctrine. I see a very large field of tension, a very large range. What is it, anyway? The coalition agreement states that we regard the nuclear ban treaty as a new impetus for nuclear disarmament, but at the same time we adopt resolutions in the General Assembly which welcomes these resolutions. For example, we could also be observers at the next meeting of State Parties in Vienna on that ban treaty, but Belgium refuses to take part in it. I think that's a missed opportunity. In the race towards unexplored areas, such as the North Pole, the deep sea floor or space, you indicate that Belgium must defend its interests. Can you be more explicit about what that means? You are also talking about protecting democracy and the rule of law. What initiatives will you take in this respect? What is your response to the alarm call of the judiciary and federal judicial police in relation to the fight against organised crime and tax fraud? After all, you said that you would pursue a decisive policy against it, but how will you apply the principle of monitoring the money in these plightful circumstances?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u21	Thank you, Prime Minister, for this explanation. Every year at Truce I use the same words in Hoeilaart to close: we can only be free when we are safe. The last two years, with the pandemic and the war in Ukraine, have shown that this is the reality. We're much less free than we used to be. I would like to congratulate you because it is the first time that a National Security Strategy has been drawn up. In addition, I have the same questions as Mr Piedboeuf. You and your services can't follow up on all this themselves. How's this gonna be followed up? How will this be delegated to the relevant ministers? You said it, our economy is an open economy. We are very dependent on exports and imports. We have a number of economic gates in our country: the port of Antwerp, the port of Zeebrugge, the port of Ghent, the airports and so on. Sky ECC has made much visible, especially around Antwerp. How do you look at implementing and using new technologies in that broad security strategy? I'm thinking facial recognition. That technology is here today. Can we use them in a controlled way, perhaps in a testing ground, to further implement that strategy on the ground? You also mentioned the screening mechanisms for foreign investment. Mr Metsu has already mentioned those Chinese cameras. How can we make this concrete, with invitations to tender and so on? Could you give us a little more explanation on that? I also received a specific question from Comeos. Are the supply centres on the list of critical infrastructure or not? Comeos is a little worried about that. Food safety and food supply are also very important in our economic fabric. Following on and very current, the supply of basic raw materials is under a little pressure today. The grains often come from Ukraine or the east. Is there any thought at local or European level about how we can resolve this temporarily? I hear that in some countries there is massive sowing of cereals. Do you have a better idea of what we are doing or what Europe can do to keep that under control? You rightly said that we need to invest more in our security. Further efforts will be called for at the NATO Summit next week. That's gonna cost more money, too. Police, cyber, I fully agree. You said in your policy statement at the end of last year that a secure network will be created to exchange information between administrations in a safe and secure way. How's that going? Two weeks ago, I was visiting Thales in Tubize. I learned there that the government can't do everything, but that the private can't do everything either. I am convinced that in certain areas government and private should work together on that security in our country, especially in the cyber field. The expertise is with the private and not yet in the government systems. More cooperation is needed there. Can you give me any further explanation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u22	Mr President, Prime Minister, the National Security Strategy contains three elements: the description of the identity of our country, an analysis of the security environment, on the one hand the interests and on the other the risks and threats, and policy orientations. The National Security Strategy offers a long-term vision, in this case ten to fifteen years, but should also be updated periodically. At the beginning of each legislature, careful evaluation will be required to determine whether an adjustment is necessary. It's the very first National Security Strategy in our country. The fact that the exercise was done and that the text exists already has a value in itself, especially in a country where the safety culture is not fully mature. Now that the National Security Strategy is in place, it will be up to each of us to make the best of it and not just shove it in a slide like a document that is there and gets pulled out when a major disaster happens. A National Security Strategy is also not a one-off event. Ideally, this is a process that is closely monitored. I am pleased that the National Security Strategy is there and that it also pays due attention to the importance of a strong social contract with society. It is also against this backdrop of a less strong social contract that we must frame the recent and violent protest movements. A strong social contract with society is all the more important because the COOVID-19 crisis has had a huge negative impact, including on the social fabric. How do you see that aspect of resilience of society, which is often overlooked? The National Security Strategy talks about a whole of government approach. If there is a lesson that we have learned over the past year, it is the importance of a very powerful and strong government to be able to really tackle a crisis. In a country like ours, that doesn't necessarily run off a cliff. I can say from my own experience that ministerial decision-making processes to address crises are not always optimal. Fortunately, we often find a good mode of vivendi in Belgium, but if we admit it honestly, it is not always possible to repeat it. When faced with a next crisis, there must be a much clearer division of powers and a chain of command in this complex country. I believe that we should all be able to recognise this problem around the table today. How do you view that, Prime Minister? Mr Prime Minister, how do you see, finally, the impact of the Russian invasion of Ukraine on our national security strategy? Where do you think we should make adjustments? Where are we on that level?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u23	Thank you, Prime Minister, for the explanation. I would like to mention the fight against trafficking in human beings and all forms of exploitation. That theme, which is very close to my heart, is an absolute policy priority in the coalition agreement. But in your document, I did not find the word trafficking in human beings, but the word trafficking in human beings. Is that a forgetfulness, or do I have to make certain consequences? I can see you nodding, so that makes me feel better. Last Thursday, in the context of the questions on the war in Ukraine, I called for increased vigilance and a very high level of preparedness for all possible services in contact with Ukrainian refugees. After all, where people find themselves in precarious situations, exploiters are also ready with euro signs in their eyes. It's about mob gangs, pimps, teenage pimps and all kinds of exploiters. I believe that this requires a transversal approach across many areas of competence. Then it is about police and inspection services, but just as much about OCMWs, hospitals and care centres for sexual violence. This afternoon I also ask a number of questions to Minister Van Quickenborne. On this subject, I can say that he is engaged in a fantastic awareness-raising campaign, on behalf of Vooruit. We made that suggestion to him and he started working on it for 100 percent. I am very grateful to him for that. That must not be allowed to end: all the services must show the highest level of vigilance. For example, I had also asked the question to Minister Verlinden, but she wanted to wait until there were effective findings of trafficking in human beings and then adjust the strategy. I think it's too late. We already know that exploitation is happening anyway. In the meantime, have all these services across all areas of competence detected signs of abuse, exploitation or trafficking of Ukrainian refugees in Belgium? Is there also an active and transversal search for these forms of exploitation, for example in the places where the Ukrainian refugees are now arriving in large numbers? Is there a coordinated plan to deal with abuse, exploitation and trafficking across areas of competence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u24	Prime Minister, thank you for your briefing and for the note. I had a specific joint question on Ukraine. One particular point I would like to address is that we are at a stage of this terrible conflict where some cities are increasingly surrounded or buried under rubble and are therefore less and less accessible by land. The question of how humanitarian aid is brought there arises. It is also for this reason that France has decided to set up an air bridge via Poland, which has made it possible to transport medical equipment, medicines, etc. to Ukraine and to neighbouring countries hosting refugees. In 2015, when tensions increased in the separatist regions of Ukraine, a humanitarian airlift was organised by the European Union as part of the EU Civil Protection Mechanism. This possibility does exist and has been used in the past. I think we have to start asking ourselves the following questions. Would it be possible for the Belgian State to provide humanitarian aid to Ukraine through humanitarian air bridges, particularly for cities that are no longer accessible by land? If so, how could this aid be organised? Would it organise itself unilaterally or in cooperation with other States of the Union? Does a humanitarian airlift pose a risk of Russia's direct retaliation for our country? If so, how is this risk assessed? Finally, how can we ensure that the possible Belgian air presence in Ukraine is properly assimilated in this case by the Russian aggressor as humanitarian aid and not as the exercise of collective self-defence alongside Ukraine?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u25	I will use the order of the comments and the questions. Thank you for the constructive attitude across party boundaries. Firstly, this is a whole-of-government document. This document was presented and discussed at the November consultation committee last year. Questions were also explicitly addressed to the Land governments requesting written comments and approval. Five of the six Länder have done so and have forwarded comments. They have stated that they agree on this document. We have not received any approval from the Flemish Government. After asking the question twice, we decided to have the document approved by the National Security Council. However, I assume that this does not mean that the Flemish Government would fundamentally disagree with the content of the document. Mr Metsu asked how this document should be translated into practice and what KPIs are associated with it. It is indeed intended that the various departments concerned will define these KPIs. A two-person cell will be created within the Chancery to do the real operational follow-up. Then it will be up to each minister responsible to translate this policy. What is important here is that this security strategy has an impact that is wider than that of the classic security departments. For example, you can perfectly imagine that a finance minister is actually doing a lot of things here, which is not surprising. Today it could be said that food safety is also becoming important. This affects policy areas for which that question would never have been asked six months ago. I believe that food safety and access to food will become an important area in the coming weeks. The war in Ukraine has a huge impact on that. The European agricultural policy is based on the reasoning that emerged after the Second World War that sufficient food supplies were to be provided in Europe. In the meantime, a lot of time has passed, but I think this will be placed high on the agenda again. As regards the capacity to implement this, I believe that a number of important choices have already been made in the coalition agreement in the area of additional resources for police, justice and defence. It was decided a few weeks ago. Additional resources for cybersecurity are an important aspect of the European Investment Fund. So very important choices have been made. For one piece, these were a preliminaries to the way in which a security strategy is further operationalised. At the beginning of each new legislature, the incoming government is supposed to make a kind of assessment of the pertinence of that National Security Strategy with regard to the current situation. This does not mean, therefore, that a whole new strategy must be drawn up at that time, but it is a time for calibration. Specifically, we were asked whether we should implement a number of simplifications or improvements in our country's security structure. It was then, for example, about the National Security Authority which is responsible for the security accreditations. For a very long time, there was discussion of where it should be placed and how it should be organised. This is an example of a simplification that we were able to decide at the latest Security Council. Cybersecurity will also be a permanent part of the National Security Council and also of the Preparatory Committee. You also asked a question about the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry to which you refer. They're actually ready for execution now. You asked questions about the attribution procedure. There is an attribution procedure in the field of cybersecurity. That procedure is currently under way with regard to the cyber attacks on Defense and Home Affairs. That runs, but the fact that that procedure exists does not necessarily mean that the attribution is simple. Especially with regard to cybercrimes, it is often very difficult to really determine where they come from. With regard to the nuclear threat, the operational work for us is actually being done by NATO. At the time when the nuclear threat was expressed, you saw that NATO reacted cold-bloodedly and de-escalated, in my opinion, the right response. In the event of a nuclear attack or a nuclear accident, the National Crisis Centre shall assume operational coordination. As I said, the Chancellery will monitor this strategy. A small cell will be created. The ministers concerned will also have a role to play. As regards, for example, organised crime linked to drug trafficking, a discussion took place between the Ministers of Justice and the Interior on guaranteed funding for the judicial police. An agreement has been reached so that sufficient resources are allocated to it so that it can play its part. Decisions on additional staffing have already been taken. Mr Van Langenhove, this is not the first time you have used the example of people who would abuse the situation in Ukraine. If you have any clues about that, perhaps you should come up with some facts. The example you are giving is that there would be people in North Africa today who fly to Kiev in Ukraine and from there come to our country. I do not have the impression that many planes are going there today, but perhaps I am mistaken. If you have examples, use them. I'm visiting the registration center on the Heysel this afternoon. I will let you know how many people from Vietnamese or other Asian or African countries I see there, but I have the impression that this will be a very limited number. Mr Van Lommel, you asked a question about energy. I suspect that this question relates to the geopolitical dimension of energy supply. This is clearly a theme that is not new, but which is now being put in a different light. That's correct. Decisions on energy supply are, of course, broader than just a discussion on nuclear energy. The use of energy is about the production of electricity. That is correct, but as far as the use of gas in our country is concerned, for example, the greatest use of gas is not and will not be for electricity production in the future either. It is mainly industrial use and use for heating. The overall energy strategy is a broader one, but a decision will indeed be taken in the coming days with regard to its electrical component and whether or not to extend some of the nuclear capacity we have in our country. Mr Piedboeuf, as I have just said, the Chancellery and the CCIV are following this strategy, with an evaluation at the beginning of each legislature. In my view, the document we have produced is a basis that should be used for a fairly long period of time, at least I hope, because a huge amount of work has been done. With regard to cybersecurity investments, you will have noticed that we have increased them. Defence will also do so; it is developing resources in this area. We have already started the defence debate at last week's European Council, we have discussed the additional efforts to be made. It is clear that this must be done in a more integrated way in European countries. Today, we are incredibly fragmented, which leads to much less effectiveness than in the United States, for example. There is also a need for more industrial benefits in our country. We see that, in many cases, there is no real European choice at the moment. Industrial and societal benefits must be far greater. When Defence invests in cybersecurity, it's for the benefit of everyone. This is a good example that demonstrates that safety is a daily issue. Mr Briers, you spoke of crisis management. That is indeed an important element. We have a lot of lessons to learn from the past two years on how to manage crisis in Belgium. There was corona. There were the floods. Now there's this situation. The evacuation from Afghanistan has also been completed. That's a lot of areas where lessons can be learned. The intention is that we can start this as soon as possible. The Minister for the Interior has taken this to heart and is considering how we should reorganise crisis management in relation to crises which are of a different nature from what we have seen over the past 20 or 30 years. A pandemic occurs once every 100 years and a war on the European continent may occur once every 50 years. In three years, we've had all two of them, of course. Then there were floods that were also of a very exceptional nature. In the future, crises will play a much more important role in society than they have in recent decades. We need to adapt our management to that. You also spoke about the European way of deciding on security and foreign affairs. The principle of unanimity sometimes makes it difficult. This is the subject of the conference on the future of Europe. The Minister for the Interior plays an important role in this. Mr De Vuyst, you mentioned the protection of democracy and the rule of law. That is an important but sensitive issue. Democracy and free society are quite a delicate plant. They're gonna be in danger soon. The government must also be very careful in its protection. Five years ago, I was Minister of Digital Agenda and I wanted to invest in the fight against disinformation. Then it was quickly asked if I intended to create the Ministry of Truth. My idea was put aside. Today it has been shown that this type of hybrid warfare constitutes a fundamental danger. How to deal with this and how to deal transparently with organised initiatives is not evident in technicality, but also in a democratic sense. That will be one of the major areas of work of our society: in what way do we ensure that one is an open and free society with free speech, without that free speech being abused by those who do not really intend to protect the free speech. The question is also how to use technology. Mr Vandenput, I have already mentioned the follow-up. You also refer to the use of technology. There is also a bit of an ethical question. Technology can, of course, help us very well to ensure greater safety. Technology is also used in a number of authoritarian regimes in a very efficient way to ensure greater security. The question is whether we want to go in that direction. Facial recognition systems can sometimes be very efficient, but in addition to the right to freedom of expression, as a person, I also have the right not to be continuously monitored in everything I do in my life. Using technology and also taking into account the values I spoke about at the beginning of my speech is not evident. In my view, this can only be done if there is sufficient transparency about it. In relation, for example, to our intelligence services, we give certain committees in Parliament a great deal of access. I am in favour of the use of technology, as long as one can open the bonnet once in a while to see which systems are underneath. Transparency is the counterweight to the use of technology for me. You referred to food safety. As I said, that will be an important theme in the coming months. Everyone, of course, hopes that the war in Ukraine will end as soon as possible, but I think that we are going to go to a period of economic shocks that will be more difficult to manage than the economic shocks that we had during the covid period, because they are very asymmetric and can put very heavy pressure on our economic model. Mr Moyaers, you had a question about social resilience. That's important. I was just talking about hybrid warfare and in the end it is for a piece that is intended with hybrid warfare. The aim is to reduce social cohesion and create contradictions and polarisation in society. This is how we try to create an environment that can destabilise societies. I have just indicated how difficult it is, in my view, to deal with it. The first point is that one monitors it, analyses it and reports it, before one can know how to deal with it. I've gone into the whole of government and I've mentioned what process it's been. In relation to the impact of the crisis in Ukraine, there is a first direct impact on defence. NATO is sending a very clear signal that operational standards are going up. If there were any problems with our defence and we could do business in the short term in order to be more operational, then I think we should respond to them. Let us not forget that we are already very operational. We're in Estonia and Romania. Mr Segers, I do not really distinguish between trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. For me, it's about the same thing, although I know it might not be the same technically. In all our services, there is a great deal of alertness to what is happening outside our country, but also to what can happen within our country in terms of exploitation and abuse. It's a real problem. We are working very hard on it and we are very alert. But I would be careful to let the wave of solidarity we see snow under the danger of this theme. That wave is very broad and in its quasi totality based on good intentions. But we are very aware of the phenomenon. Mr Metsu also integrated an oral question on Chinese cameras. I can go into that now. We have no evidence of data leaks to China. That does not, of course, mean that there are no risks and that we do not map them. You asked whether the Buildings Regie has a centralized register of the number of cameras per brand. That's not true. We do know how many cameras we're talking about, but there are no details about that. In any case, they make sure that camera systems are isolated, as in the building where I work. This means that they do not use existing Wi-Fi systems and are therefore not connected to external networks. The systems are completely disconnected. In any case, the Ministers for Justice, Defence and Foreign Affairs have already provided answers to this question. Mr De Smet, you asked a question about air bridges in Ukrainian territory. They can only be organised with the agreement of the belligerent parties, to whom it must be made clear that aircraft will operate and to which it is also requested to ensure their safety. Unfortunately, for the time being, that is not the case. Similarly, agreements on humanitarian corridors are not respected. It's extremely damaging. Indeed, even during the war in Syria, it was possible to conclude agreements on the subject - agreements that were respected. It is deplorable to observe that this war - and we know that a war is still dramatic - does not apply the agreements reached. This demonstrates the atrocious and blindness of the current warlike violence. For my part, I would like to be able to announce the organization of such initiatives, but I see that this is impossible at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u26	We still have 15 minutes to have the groups replicated. We agreed on two minutes per group yesterday. I understand that some of the questioners may not have received the answers they expected, but I suggest that the committee secretariat contact the Prime Minister's cabinet in order to set a new date as soon as possible to answer the unanswered questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u27	Prime Minister, I had a number of questions for you, but there was also a parallel meeting of the Foreign and Defence Committees on the resolution on Ukraine. There was a majority resolution by e-mail at 10.30 a.m., half an hour after this committee started, but still some work was done. I think people have had to work a little too fast at the end. I would also like to make a number of points. Then Mr Metsu will ask a number of questions, if I understand correctly. I'm here to barge in, but I think you're doing well. I believe that both you and Mrs Wilmès have been doing well on the international stage since the beginning. You prove that you have a lot of experience there and that it's really your thing. It's more your thing than running certain files here. This is not easy in a government with seven parties, with very different views and ideological views. I therefore believe that what you are doing on the international stage has so far gone fairly well. I am glad that two Liberals are working on this and not Greens, because it is about our Defence and our international diplomacy. I have to say that very clearly, because I honestly do not see it working out. I am glad that the government formation has decided to keep the Greens far away from those posts. That's a good thing. I do believe that a number of things need to be clarified further. If you come to Parliament with the National Security Strategy, you can actually do your job again. I'm okay with having one. There's been a wide consultation, and there's something. That really is the merit of the government. However, due to the war in Ukraine, a number of things are once again turned upside down. There's a new Cold War coming, as Ian Bremmer wrote in De Tijd yesterday. We must prepare ourselves for that. We're not prepared right now. You say food security is a point. It is indeed a point. Why is it not called upon to plant summer wheat now? Now it's the planting season for that. You also live in a rural municipality. I know, that is the responsibility of Flemish Minister Crevits, but this is about national security. Food security becomes an issue of national security, planting summer wheat is a national safety issue. It is indeed a regional competence, of course I do not dispute that. I am a Flemish nationalist and you will never hear me say that. However, food security is a national security issue. We're going through something here. After the Ukrainian refugee crisis and the southern refugee crisis, I expect incredible food shortages, just like during the Arab Spring. The grain price is exploding! For us, a bread of two or three euros will not be so bad, but in Egypt that is a huge problem and 100 million people live there. So the planting season is now. You are also mayor of a rural municipality, the farmers are now planting until the end of March. We don't have to wait another few weeks because then it's too late. Then there's corn everywhere for the animals. We may find ourselves in a situation where we will have to eat less meat at some point. Imagine everything. We're facing a huge problem. Ukraine will not become anything with regard to cereals. There will be no exports of summer wheat, everything is flat. Russia has frozen its exports until the end of June. How will we feed all the mouths in the world? It will probably work here, even though it will not be obvious. Because we are rich and prosperous. But what will it be like in the Arab world? What will it be like in the Middle East? I'm really worried about that. You say that you do, but I think this should be discussed in depth in the Security Council. It's really time, I'm making a call for this. Second of all...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u28	Mr Francken, that's not gonna work anymore. The Prime Minister has to leave at 12:00 and I have promised that all groups will have the opportunity to replicate. I have to apply that rule to everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u29	Mr President, that is a pity. Prime Minister, don't give them a living wage.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u30	I thank the Prime Minister for all the clarifications. I don't have any more questions to ask. I will not take unnecessary time to speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u31	Mr Prime Minister, I am very sorry that you are simply not going to answer the questions. You're saying I have to bring facts. Those facts are on the table. French figures show that one in three so-called refugees who came from Ukraine to France do not turn out to be Ukrainian. The German figures are also on the table, 18% of the people who came to Germany via Ukraine, so to speak, are not Ukrainians. VTM journalist Robin Ramaekers, who was on the border between Ukraine and Poland, testified live on television that he saw hundreds of Africans crossing the border. He immediately said he suspected it was human trafficking. How many more facts are needed to make you realize that there is fraud and abuse on a massive scale and that our hospitality is being abused? Beds and places are being taken by illegal migrants, who should be destined for genuine Ukrainian refugees. It's a shame you don't want to see that. The photos and videos are massively on social media. It can be seen everywhere that there are a lot of abusers and fraudsters among those Ukrainian refugees. It's a shame you don't want to see that. It is also very unfortunate that you have not answered my other questions. I asked you very clearly whether you really think it is a good idea to give all these refugees a living wage. That's not only undesirable, it's priceless. We can't handle that. Our social security system is already bankrupt. We cannot help our own people properly and you want to give hundreds of thousands of refugees a living wage. That's undesirable and priceless. I also asked you whether you will automatically give people who come through Ukraine, but are not Ukrainian, who have another safe country of origin, a status of recognition or not. You did not reply to that either. We face enormous challenges and you obviously have no idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u32	Prime Minister, you were very clear. However, since you yourself saw food safety and access to food as issues for the national security strategy, I would like to add my voice to Mr Francken's question, what you mean by that, and whether you will direct the relevant policy from the National Security Council or whether it belongs to the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u33	Prime Minister, you answered only one question. Of course, you couldn't possibly answer all the questions. There was a discussion just now on the various resolutions relating to the war in Ukraine. I am here to draw attention to foreign security in the Committee on Home Affairs. Of course, we still have a lot of repercussions ahead of us, including in terms of food safety. We should anticipate that by now. I also propose, as stated in the national security strategy, that diplomacy and multilateral fora such as the OSCE be resuscitated to try to defuse the conflict and use all the diplomatic means available to the government to move to a de-escalation as soon as possible. In this respect, we support the view of the peace movement that we must create a new and inclusive security architecture on the European continent. Once again, we must pursue the principle of cooperative security. If we define safety, it must not be at the expense of someone else's safety. Unfortunately, the government is falling into the trap of further militarisation and promotion of defence expenditure, while our group is of the opinion that disarmament and demilitarisation can trigger a reverse spiral and also provide long-term security guarantees. Don't lose sight of that at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u34	Prime Minister, I would also like to thank you for paying attention to the fight against exploitation and trafficking in human beings, which is an absolute policy priority of the government agreement. We must also make that intention a reality. You spoke of trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. However, I would like to make a distinction between the two. The Ukrainians are refugees. There can be no question of trafficking in human beings. It is a question of trafficking in human beings and therefore of heavy forms of exploitation. You say there's already a great deal of alertness. That's partly true. I mentioned that, for example, Minister Van Quickenborne is working hard on an awareness campaign. My question to you was to make it cross-cutting. I have not yet had the impression that the same alertness is already fully present with, for example, Minister Verlinden of the Interior. I would therefore ask you to be behind everyone's feathers, so that everyone pays attention to that. To which cases have been detected in the meantime, I have not received an answer. However, we know that there are a large number of cases. As you say, we must not undermine solidarity. We've got to frame it right. There are also situations that have nothing to do with the host families. Some persons were transferred to the border for payment and are in debt, debt bondage. This is not about solidarity. I would like to draw your attention to this and to that of the entire government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic721x.u35	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer and for your indignation, which I share. In fact, we, the European Union, NATO, accept the law of the strongest or first come. The Russians have taken possession of the Ukrainian sky and therefore we cannot protect any humanitarian corridor. It's a historical step backwards. You have rightly spoken of Syria. Let us remember that even in 1948, during the blockade of West Berlin, the allies managed to make an aerial point against the Soviets. Today, we are reduced to watching the inhabitants of Kiev and other cities be encircled and soon besieged without being able to react. I find it unbearable, as you probably do. There are no 36 solutions. Either we find ways to enforce an air bridge, or we have to give Ukrainians the means to regain possession of their airspace. I don't see any other possibility.
