ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u1	Mrs Pas, I have already indicated in this committee in January and June last year, and in the Committee on the Constitution of 16 March this year, that the law on the use of language in administrative matters is of public policy. It is therefore clear to me that it is being respected, particularly by the local authorities of the bilingual region of Brussels Capital. With regard to the specific investigation, supervision and enforcement of the College Decision of the City of Schaerbeek, in accordance with Article 4 of the Law of 12 January 1989, in conjunction with Article 7 of the Law of 8 August 1980, the Brussels-Capital Region is responsible for administrative supervision of the municipalities of Brussels. The power to suspend or destroy the College Decision of 29 June 2021 is therefore conferred on the Brussels Capital Government. That is why I have to refer to that body.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u2	First of all, the quote of the college decision that I put in my question has been taken up literally. Including the written errors and the linguistic errors against Dutch. They're not mine. Madam Secretary, this discussion is not new. Language law is of public policy. It is being trampled on by local authorities in Brussels, now again by this example in Schaerbeek, where the College of Ships thinks it should establish English as an official language and where it believes it is its job to make interpreters available for other languages. We all know that Brussels is not taking place. Indeed, the Brussels Government has the power of suspension. I have asked you several times to remove it because it is not performing. In this case, it is not only contrary to the Law on Language Use in Administrative Affairs, which is indeed of public order, but is also contrary to the Constitution. You are competent for language legislation. It is, of course, very easy to get rid of Brussels completely, but you know better than I do that under Article 30 of the Constitution, the use of languages can only be regulated by law, and cannot be overruled by a decision of a subordinate administration. So at least I expected a more powerful answer from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u3	Mrs Pas, it is true that the Brussels public hospitals, like other public services, are subject to the provisions of the State Steel Act. As you point out, since the end of 1995, Brussels public hospitals have been part of a separate structure, the irisnet. This implies that since then they are no longer public services of one municipality and that their staff are no longer recruited by a Brussels municipal or OCMW administration. The suspension supervision of the Deputy Governor is provided for in Article 65 (2) and (3) of the Administrative Steel Act with regard to the staff decisions of the Brussels Municipal and OCMW Boards. This does not include personnel decisions by other public services. This is also the case for public hospitals in the irisnet. I am not aware of any statement by the Vice-President who would say otherwise. Furthermore, I would like to point out that, in a scientific article from 2006, the lawyers Tom De Pelsmaeker and Emmanuel Vandenbossche, to whom you refer, also pointed out precisely the impact of the creation of the irisnet. They concluded that, as a result of this new scheme, the Brussels public hospitals are no longer subject to the same supervision regime as the Brussels OCMWs. Therefore, the circular of 16 July 2021 on the obligations of the municipal and OCMW authorities under Article 65 of the Administrative Steel Act refers exclusively to the staff decisions of the municipalities and the OCMW authorities themselves. Therefore, I do not intend to deviate from what is provided for in the current Article 65 of the Administrative Steel Act. You asked me if I would take additional measures to ensure that management of the public hospitals of the irisnet also effectively comply with this obligation, for example by introducing exceptional administrative supervision. I refer to my previous replies in the Internal Affairs Commission of 30 June 2021 and in the Constitutional Commission of 16 March. I also explained at that time that an amendment to the Administrative Steel Act is not part of the current federal government agreement. It is not an easy exercise to find a political majority for this either, I do not have to tell you that. In those committees, however, I suggested that you should be free to engage in dialogue with the various groups in Parliament, if you had any ideas about this and if you see opportunities for finding the necessary majorities. I would very much like to ask you how far you stand with this, but as you know, only Members can ask questions to the Minister and the Minister has no opportunity to ask questions to the Members of Parliament. I just want to remind you of my call. Once again, I invite you to start working on this issue and to seek support for it in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u4	I thank the Minister for her answer. She rightly refers to the power of suspension of the Vice-Governor, but the essence of the problem is that the Brussels OCMW hospitals do not send their personnel files to the Vice-Governor at all. So he can't control them. You're not confirming today that they should. Apparently it is only about the personnel files of the municipal authorities and the OCMWs themselves, I understand from your answer, but that does not solve the problem. You are aware of the perseverance of the Brussels authorities. It's easy to bounce the ball back. I certainly have ideas about this, namely removing the power from the Brussels authorities and placing it with the vice-governor himself, but those ideas have already been voted off in this house, Madam Secretary. You're on the buttons. It may not be in the coalition agreement, but it is detrimental to public health. Last year there were massive complaints to the Vlaams Meldpunt Language complaints about language disorders in Brussels hospitals, much more than other years, even in the emergency departments. If patients cannot be treated in their own language in their own capital city, they sometimes have dangerous consequences. Whether that is in the coalition agreement or not, it is up to you to find a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u5	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Boukili's 55026080C and 55026113C have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u6	Madam Secretary, on 9 March, a hearing was held with the COC on his investigation into the use of Clearview AI software by police. That was a very interesting hearing. The COC concluded that there is insufficient awareness of privacy in different police areas, while police officers and services deal with very sensitive personal information on a daily basis. The protection of personal data is clearly a key task for the police. The awareness of and compliance with GDPR rules should be taken for granted in our rule of law. According to the COC, many police zones still do not have their own information security plan. Each police zone should have access to it. Another notable observation that emerged during that hearing was that there was only one Data Protection Officer (DPO) for the whole province of Limburg, for example. Surely we should assume that every police area has access to it. What do you think of these COC conclusions on the lack of awareness about privacy legislation in Belgian police areas? Is it true that not every police area has an information security plan? If so, what will you do to support those areas? Do you think every police area should have a DPO? How is privacy law taught at police schools? Which subjects of basic training cover privacy legislation? Will privacy legislation be included in the Commissioner's training programmes? Are there further training courses for police schools specifically concerned with the processing and protection of personal data? What plans do you have to raise awareness about privacy legislation in Belgian police services?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u7	Of course, a thorough knowledge and application of the privacy legislation are important. Sensitisation as well as legislation and regulation are important pillars of developing a sound policy on the protection of personal data and the processing of police information. The integrated police are constantly focusing on strengthening the subconsciousness of its employees for privacy legislation. She does this through various communication tools and learning moments, such as info sessions, training courses, awareness modules, instruction notes and news reports. The mandatory directive of the Minister of Justice and myself imposes an information security policy on the local police areas. However, there is still a need to develop an information security policy linked to this. Federal police have developed an intranet site that can support the police zones. The security policy for the integrated police will soon be available for consultation by all units on this site. This means that the security objectives, the recommendation and the models for security plans and existing security plans are formulated centrally for the integrated police. This security policy is ready for validation by the Integrated Police Coordination Committee. The translation of the SharePointsite is also ongoing. Normally the site will go live for the summer of this year. On the basis of this security policy, the units must draw up their own security plan. For central applications, the Federal Police Police Police Police Police Police Police Police Police Police Department will draw up its own security plan. For non-central systems, both local units and decentralised services will have to draw up their own security plan. The federal police will also be able to make available the non-sensitive parts of the security plans on that website. In any case, it will ensure that templates or good practices of safety plans are available there to the units that still have to draw up their safety plan themselves. Article 144 of the Act on the organization of an integrated police service provides that each controller and at least each police area, the general police station, each Directorate-General and each Directorate of the Federal Police shall appoint one or more police personnel as Data Protection Officer (DPO), in accordance with article 37 of the General Data Protection Regulation and article 63 of the Data Protection Act. Within the federal police, the Commissioner General, the Directors General and the Directors have appointed at least one person to perform this function. As provided for in Article 144 above, different employees perform the function for the benefit of several directors. As for the local police, according to the latest information available to me, 134 DPOs are designated, with some exercising their functions for the benefit of several police areas. The privacy legislation is addressed in the basic training for inspectors during the Information Management module, as well as in the preparatory training to the Commissioner where she is extensively addressed. During the initial training for Commissioner, the Supervisory Body shall provide a module dealing with privacy and data protection. There is also an offer of continuing training on the protection of personal data. For example, there are training courses on the processing of police information and personal data in a database, such as the ANG, and also in the training Register of processing activities the Data Protection Act is addressed. A new programme Processing operational police information CALog will start soon. Finally, the integrated police continue to work on the transposition of GDPR rules into police law and regulation. In the light of new data processing possibilities and the need to use new technologies in a way that also provides the necessary protection, this is an important yard.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. You say that it is very important that privacy legislation is not only known, but is also respected. Your answer contains many elements that show that this is an important yard for the coming months to ensure not only that each police area has an information security policy or a plan for it, but that this plan is actually alive. It is good that a person is assigned within a zone to follow that closely. There is certainly a need for training, but I heard you say that this is already covered in basic training and that there will also be further training, including for CALog staff, to learn how to handle sensitive personal data. This is certainly something that we need to keep following up because it will only become more important when using new technologies, but also when using bodycams, for example. All that sort of thing creates its own problems of processing. This is something very important for our group and we will keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u9	Mr President, as I have nothing to add, I will join what my colleague has said.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u10	Mr President, Madam Minister, in the near future the Council of Ministers of the European Union will meet to define the terms of the cooperation agreement which will link INTERPOL and the European Union. I realize that my question dates back to March 18. Therefore, it is possible that the meeting has already taken place. I'm sure you'll let me know. Minister, when are these discussions scheduled? Is it you who will sit on this Council to represent Belgium? What do you think the ideal cooperation agreement would contain? What are the main principles that you will defend? What are the red lines on which you will not compromise?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u11	Mrs Song, in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Commission is negotiating the agreement with INTERPOL on behalf of the Union, on the basis of the negotiating mandate approved by the Council last summer. The first meeting between INTERPOL and the European Commission took place at the end of 2021. In the meantime, a technical meeting was also held. As provided for in the negotiating mandate, the European Commission shall report to the Council Working Group on the exchange of information and its management. On the basis of this report, I can inform you that the negotiations are still fully under way and that we have not yet reached a stage where a precise proposal for a text can be submitted to the Council. It was agreed that the rounds of negotiations would be held every two months and would be interspersed with technical meetings. From the latest information received from the European Commission, it appears that the negotiations are progressing rather well. Depending on their development, the European Commission will have to submit the agreement to the Council. I am therefore not currently in a position to clarify the timetable. I agree with the content of the negotiating mandate established by the Council if it makes it possible to deepen the question of access to certain INTERPOL databases by the Member States of the European Union, as provided for in the interoperability regulation. This agreement also serves the cooperation between INTERPOL and the relevant EU agencies, such as Europol, Eurojust and the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Finally, it is also very clearly stated in this mandate that the intended cooperation must comply with the data protection rules in force in the European Union and fully respect the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u12	Madam Minister, thank you for the clarification you have given me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u13	Question No 55026353C by Mr Rigot is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u14	Madam Minister, I had initially addressed this question to Minister Vandenbroucke, but he referred me to you in all his wisdom, which, of course, increases my chances of getting an answer. As a result of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, a number of fires broke out in the forests around the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in the last week of March. Because the area was in the hands of Russian troops, and still is, by the way, the local Ukrainian fire brigade could not put out the fires, allowing potentially radioactive particles to spread. Madam Secretary, does this pose a potential risk to our country? Are there or are there no indirect risks to our public health caused by the fires, for example by imports of food from Ukraine or its neighbouring countries? I have a few further sub-questions for both questions. What are the dangers? What measures will be taken, or have already been taken, to ensure safety?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u15	Mr Creyelman, since the beginning of the conflict in Ukraine, it is up to both the IAEA and the FANC to monitor the situation regarding possible radiological impact. They do, too. They follow the situation very closely. Until today, there has been no abnormal increase in radioactivity measured by the measuring stations of the TELLERAD system in Belgium. In Belgian territory, therefore, there has been no increased risk to the population and to the environment. As a result of this situation, no additional or specific measures had to be taken. If radioactive particles are airborne somewhere in the world as a result of forest fires, accidents or similar incidents, the FANC monitors the levels of radioactivity measured on Belgian territory thanks to its measuring stations. In order to be able to make predictions for Belgium about the distribution of radioactive particles, the FANC works closely with the Belgian researchers of the Nuclear Research Centre and also with the RMI. At international level, the FANC is regularly in contact with European colleagues and international organisations such as the International Atomic Energy Agency. In the event of any evolution in the situation in Ukraine, the FANC, together with the National Crisis Centre, informs the Belgian population via social networks and the website of the FANC, but also via a specific website set up by the Crisis Centre, www.info-ukraine.be, and of course through all other possible communication channels. As the impact of forest fires is very limited and can mainly be located in the exclusion zone, the risk of impact on food products exported to Belgium is negligible. We will, of course, continue to monitor the situation very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u16	Madam Minister, I am glad that you can reassure me, and above all the people, about the possible danger posed by these fires. For the time being, I have no reason to believe that you are doing an Armand Pientje and want to minimize the danger, as the most famous and notorious weatherman of Flanders did in 1986.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u17	Madam Minister, at the beginning of 2021, you announced in committee that you were preparing a reform of the disciplinary procedure within the police, in response to numerous questions about incidents involving police officers, including the one revealed by the press in a video dating back to 2018 in which two police officers were seen travelling by car while speaking racist and homophobic words by their speaker. As a reminder, disciplinary sanctions had been imposed against them, but had been quashed by the Council of State on procedural issues. In particular, the reform should avoid the risk of cancellation for formal reasons. You also rightly proclaimed the "zero tolerance" of racism that could be expressed in the police. According to an analysis by the Police General Inspectorate (PGA) made public during 2020, there is currently no sanction unit. One of the AIG's 12 proposals for better police integrity is to develop a new disciplinary statute and a statute for law enforcement measures. For the AIG, there is a need for a two-pronged approach: disciplinary sanctions for the most serious offences and enforcement measures for non-compliance. Madam Minister, could you take stock of the reform of the police disciplinary status that you launched, both in terms of the agenda and the consultations that took place? The issue of disciplinary procedures within the police has already been addressed on many occasions in our committee. However, I would like to be able to take stock with you of what a police council can or cannot do in such a context to ensure that the official concerned is entitled to an impartial procedure, but also to avoid any procedural flaws. When disciplinary proceedings are initiated within the police, can this be referred to in a police council where the charges have taken place? What are its potential disciplinary prerogatives in such a situation of a police council? What safeguards are in place to safeguard the rights of the person concerned, his or her right to privacy, but also to avoid interfering with internal disciplinary or even judicial proceedings?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u18	Dear colleague, the Integrated Police Act provides that the disciplinary status of members of the operational framework and the administrative and logistical framework shall be determined by law. This disciplinary law applies to all statutory members of the integrated police force. It entrusts the chief of corps, the mayor or the police college with disciplinary competence at the level of the local police, thus excluding the police council, which has no prerogative in disciplinary matters. Moreover, these local disciplinary authorities are bound by the duty of confidentiality, which is covered by the disciplinary law, which prohibits the disclosure of facts and documents of which they have become aware in this capacity, both in order to preserve the right to privacy of the official concerned and to avoid interference with the disciplinary procedure. The processing of personal data contained in a disciplinary file which would be to inform the members of a police council is likely to ignore the provisions of the GDPR relating to the adequacy, relevance and non-excessiveness of the processing of personal data in relation to the purposes of this processing, which is legally beyond the competence of the police council. An ongoing disciplinary procedure within the local police force cannot therefore be referred to in a police council, a communal council or a communal college, whether or not it is that of the police zone to which the staff member concerned by this procedure belongs. With regard to the revision of the disciplinary statute, a working group composed of representatives of the local police and the federal police met from September 2021 to March 2022 to analyse the preliminary draft of the new disciplinary law. The conclusions of this working group have yet to be communicated to me by the integrated police. It will then be necessary to refer them to my colleague from Justice and to answer any outstanding questions. Secondly, the advice of the General Inspectorate of Police Services and the police information monitoring body must be sought before giving, together with my colleague from Justice, the necessary instructions to finalize the draft disciplinary law, as well as a draft royal decree implementing it. An agenda for work has not yet been established.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u19	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u20	Question No 55027245C by Mr Thiébaut is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u21	Minister, it appears from a recent opinion of the COC that, very often, drones used by the police are not identifiable as such. The requirement of visibility, provided for in Article 25/2, § 2, 2 of the Law on the Police Function, is therefore not satisfied. Therefore, the rules governing non-visible use should be respected. In short, it is to be feared that the use by the police of cameras mounted on drones will suffer for the time of some illegality. That is why, Madam Minister, my questions are as follows. The COC recommends introducing a reflective lighting or blue gyrophare requirement to make police drones more clearly visible and identifiable, as such. Is it planned to equip all the drones of the federal police and local police with such a device? If so, when will it be effective? Do you intend to contact police areas that already use drones equipped with cameras to notify them of COC recommendations and ask them to make the necessary adjustments?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u22	Dear colleague, in reply to your first question, I would like to point out that, in the current state of law, and in particular the law on the police function, drones used by the federal police are made identifiable as police aircraft by marking the police logo. The cameras on which these drones are equipped therefore meet the legal condition to be deemed visible as confirmed in the explanatory memorandum of the law of 21 March 2018 by which the articles relating to the use of cameras were inserted into the law on the police function. However, the opinion of the Supervisory Body points to an important point of attention that could lead to future changes in certain pieces of legislation. The improvement of the evidence of the use of police drones will be studied without delay in the working group of the drone operators of the federal police and the local police. Technical solutions such as those proposed by the COC in its opinion, to which you refer, as well as procedures will be examined. However, it is essential that the following three criteria be met: 1. The means and processes used shall not adversely affect the compliance of drones with the standards and certifications required for their type of operation. 2. They cannot be easily falsified by unscrupulous users. 3. They will not disrupt or interfere with air traffic or air control. To this end, the Air Transport Branch of the Federal Public Service Mobility and the Defence Air Component will be consulted. Finally, it is possible that the forthcoming entry into force of certain provisions of European legislation, including the obligation to provide certain drones with a direct remote identification system, will also clearly improve their use by the police services. The development of these regulations will be closely monitored. With regard to your second question, I assume that the police areas are informed because the COC's recommendations are sent ex officio to both the Federal Police and the Standing Committee on Local Police and are also available on the website of the supervisory body. Chiefs of corps have an autonomous responsibility that is not subject to the control of my office. They have, on the one hand, a final responsibility for the processing of personal data in their capacity as controllers and, on the other hand, they are responsible for ensuring the legal use of the means available in their respective police areas. Police chiefs are mandated to oversee the execution of essential police tasks in their police areas and to ensure that such execution is in accordance with the laws and directives in force. Both the Federal Police and the zonal police forces are subject to the control of the OCC and are expected to review its advice and take action where necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am pleased to hear that obviously you are going to study all this problem of drones and the data that they can collect. I understand that you will also examine the views of the COC in this work. Of course, I suspect that the compliance of drones should not be affected, but in any case I think that we need to reflect on the various issues and opinions we have received so far. For the more local part, I did not know that the CPPL systematically received the opinions of the COC. Indeed, there is no reason to over-inform local police, whose autonomy you have recalled. This is a case to follow, without a doubt, and I thank you for the attention you will pay to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u24	Question No 55026731C by Mrs Cornet is not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u25	Minister, since October 1, 2021, the Integrated Police Secretariat (ISPS), responsible for managing the salaries of local and federal police officers, has been carrying out this mission through a new computer program. It seems, and this is a widely shared observation, that since this change the new wage engine has ceased to generate surplus or deficit wages, without the SSGPI understanding the reasons since it is a question of computer bugs. I regret, of course, this situation, which leads to a heavy workload for the SSGPI, which must constantly carry out checks and recalculations upstream, both positive and negative, sometimes even beyond the legal limitation period of five years. The members of the SSGPI thus report to us non-payments of wages, rejected 2011 holiday pecules, half paid wages, etc. In short, problems are accumulating but do not seem to be able to solve themselves in a computer-based way. In total, no less than half of the local and federal police personnel were affected by the computer bugs of this new pay engine. Madam Minister, of course we must ensure the security of payment of the salaries of our police officers. Are you aware of this problem? When did you get the first echoes of these malfunctions? Is it true that this new wage engine has not been tested in a protected environment? Finally, what options do you envisage? Are there plans to improve the current program or move to another program? If so, what is the chosen option and when will it be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u26	Dear colleague, since the start of the commissioning of the new salary engine, I have been informed of the problems related to this implementation. I have been aware of these problems since November, when they first appeared. Some problems occurred only after the beginning of the year. The new salary engine was actually tested prior to its commissioning. Several parallel executions were carried out on an environment that was not yet in production. During the months of October, November and December, there were also parallel executions in which the new salary engine was used as principal, and the old system as parallel. It was also on the basis of these parallel executions that the new supplier intervened manually not to perform recalculations, in particular, pending a more in-depth investigation. This investigation is still ongoing and should be completed in the coming months, so that the last files currently blocked for recalculation can be released for payment. The intention is to continue with the new salary engine. The necessary steps were taken in collaboration with Defence colleagues to encourage the supplier to resolve outstanding issues as soon as possible. Currently, the supplier is focusing on putting the tax return in order for the year 2021 and correcting miscalculations on a permanent basis. There are still two types of files that are problematic. First of all, there are still files blocked for recalculations due to parallel execution, as previously indicated. This number is under review. It was determined that most of the calculations made by the new salary engine were correct. Second, there are still files of employees with debts, where much remains to be done and where the file-by-file review is undertaken by IPSMS collaborators and the supplier. An interim debt measure has already been put in place pending a final solution. This ensures that no automatic deduction is made for integrated policy employees as a result of a recalculation, with the result that the salary paid to certain employees is less than expected. Once the calculations of the salary engine correspond to what is expected, the emphasis will be on the visualization of the data for SSGPI employees so that they also see the correct data for all files. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u27	Madam Minister, thank you. I hear that some measures have been taken to remedy dysfunctional problems and that is very good! I think that will reassure everyone. Nevertheless, the results of the in-depth investigation are still expected. I hope that you will be able to return to us at the appropriate time with this various information which will probably be very interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u28	Madam Secretary, on Thursday 24 March, a letter was sent to various governments. I understand that this was also sent to you as Minister of the Interior and to your colleague for Justice. In addition, the provincial governor, the Attorney General, the King's Attorney and the Federal Police Commissioner were appointed. This open letter drew attention to the fact that the security situation in the various police areas of Halle-Vilvoorde is precarious due to a chronic lack of police officers. Basic police care is under serious pressure and in order to continue to implement it in a qualitative manner and to ensure the safety of residents and employees, a plan of action had to be put in place quickly. The existing initiatives for the recruitment and selection project are a first step, but do not cover the load. For example, one is thinking of implementing a solidarity mechanism whereby one can use other units of the GPI. It also calls for a review of minimum service standards and a halt to the outflow of employees by keeping them longer in work. The unfair and structural inequality in remuneration with the Brussels police zone is being eliminated. Finally, we also want a debate on the funding of police zones linked to a debate on scale. Madam Minister, I have already found the answer to my first question. Did you receive the letter in good order? If so, has any contact been made with the senders? I understand you've already organized a webinar. Where do you stand on the question of the solidarity mechanism? In your recent sectoral agreement, one of the goals was to keep agents working longer, although the NAVAP scheme would not be affected. Is there a plan here yet? Has this particular problem been examined in the framework of the States-General? Do you think that increasing the scale could possibly help in this particular situation? What do you think are possible quick wins in this? On the other hand, we noticed yesterday in the hearing that there could be pitfalls in scaling up. Which ones do you think are these pitfalls?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u29	Madam Minister, in recent years, many Flemish-Brabant police areas have suffered huge staff shortages. Due to an increasing shift in tasks from the justice system and the federal police, these shortages in the police areas are felt even more strongly. Moreover, it is mainly the region of Halle-Vilvoorde which is also confronted with metropolitan problems, including its proximity to the Brussels-Capital Region. The region urgently needs to recognise this particular situation. I've sued this problem several times in this committee. Despite the urban problems facing the region, our police areas are structurally under-financed, with the contrast with the Brussels areas in particular striking. It goes without saying that there is an urgent need for change here. Police areas face not only underfunding but also major recruitment problems. The most deficient areas of Flanders are always around Brussels, including the airport police of Zaventem. In an operational framework of around 1,000 full-time equivalents (FTEs) in Halle-Vilvoorde, we are already facing a deficit of 330 FTEs today. As for the letter from the 13 chiefs, you've already had an e-consultation with the mayors. In essence, they ask for positive discrimination against the Flemish-Brabant candidates in PIVO and a level playing field with Brussels in which they propose a marginal premium, as a kind of commitment premium. How can you see an improvement for the region within a reasonable period of time? I understand, of course, that the problem will not be resolved tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. The chiefs of police are asking to eliminate injustice and structural inequality and suggest different options. Which suggested slopes do you think are feasible or at least worth exploring? You indicated earlier that you were not in favour of such a peripheral premium. How do you feel after hearing this cry for help? In what form do you think it would be feasible? What do you think of the question of implementing a solidarity mechanism? Can the renewed HyCap system play a role in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u30	Colleagues, after receiving the open letter from the Chiefs of Staff on 4 April, I immediately held a virtual consultation with the mayors and chiefs of the arrondissement of Halle-Vilvoorde. We have discussed extensively different themes and possible solutions, both locally and supralocally and federally. I have experienced the consultation itself as constructive, but of course we have not yet come to the solutions. As pointed out to the mayors and police chiefs of Halle-Vilvoorde, it is my ambition to find solutions that serve the integrated police landscape on the one hand and also focus on local specificities on the other. In this context, it is essential that two representatives of the Halle-Vilvoorde police areas also express their concerns in the Local Police Permanent Commission and help find solutions that can serve the local police. Attracting competent and involved policemen and keeping them to work for a long time is a challenge, also in the Flemish Rand. I've committed myself to attracting 1,600 aspirants every year. It worked last year. Of course, we also want to benefit the arrondissement of Halle-Vilvoorde. Specifically for the region of Halle-Vilvoorde, I have researched the influx of candidates from and from outside Flemish Brabant in PIVO, as well as in the other recognized police schools and in the 13 zones. I have requested a similar analysis from the federal police for the places declared vacant in the affected zones and not filled in. Flanders has a bigger police recruitment problem than Wallonia. It is also important to be able to use this general and specific imagery and therefore to take informed action. As far as NAVAP is concerned, it is my practice to keep employees on the job for as long as possible. This is partly a responsibility of every employer. In this context, initiatives can be announced, in particular a roadmap of absenteeism that focuses on retention and reintegration of police officers. It is appropriate that the 13 police areas, where this has not yet been done, should consider what initiatives and measures they can take in this area. Furthermore, on 7 March, I asked the Standing Commission and the Federal Police to develop an action plan aimed at keeping older workers working longer, inter alia by opening up adapted functions, deploying telework and setting up a quarterly monitoring and reporting of non-activity in activation measures. I'm still getting proposals from the Integrated Police Coordination Committee for the summer. In addition to the measures taken in the field of human resources, it is important to provide for more organisational measures. Taking into account the intrinsic and extrinsic motivation of the staff to work in a particular corps, attracting and keeping candidates remains a complex story. In addition to statutory and pecuniary aspects, the body culture, organisation and resources such as the exchange and infrastructure are decisive for the ability, involvement and finality to have and keep happy employees. I believe that additional initiatives can also be taken in the area of the police organisation in the Flemish Rand. I am thinking here of increased cooperation and association, but possibly also of a merger of police zones. The current yards on the funding and scale of the police zones, as well as the reflections in the womb of the States-General of the Police can be inspiring for the Flemish Edge. The mayors have already indicated that they want to engage in the debate on an ideal scale of police areas in the Flemish Rand, which, of course, I am very pleased with. Indeed, Brussels police officers receive a bonus for work in the Brussels-Capital Region and, in certain cases, compensation for the necessary bilingualism. I understand that the Flemish Rand, and certainly the police zones adjacent to the Brussels-Capital Region, have to do with displacement effects and phenomena linked to the Brussels-Capital context. I would therefore like to make it clear whether it is true that the Flemish Rand is losing candidates to the Brussels police zones because of these statutory contributions, since the Brussels police zones have difficulties in attracting Dutch-speaking candidates. This brings me to the whole debate on premiums. Some time ago it was decided to abolish the premiums. We need to look at that. Some believe that the Brussels grant should be abolished in order to eliminate inequalities in this area. I don't know if these things will help us attract as many people as possible to the police. In addition to the question about the additional premium, I think it would be desirable to take specific criteria into account in the financing of corpses and to create a more attractive police force in general. This must already be helped by the interim sectoral agreement. Negotiations on the qualitative aspect of the sectoral agreement are still ongoing. Mrs Goethals, as mentioned in the meeting with the Chiefs of Police and Mayors on 4 April, there is the solidarity mechanism between local police forces HyCap, mortgaged capacity, which is actually a percentage of the capacity that every local police department is supposed to keep free to provide mutual support. There are also interzonal police cooperation and police associations. The federal police, as you know, can also provide support through the Intervention Corps to the Directors-Coordinators. In short, as I have agreed with the mayors and the chiefs of police, I will continue to follow closely the situation in the Flemish Rand. I really believe that it is up to us to work together to find solutions and to think about them together. The analysis is one part of the story, the solutions are another part. We must do this together, given the structure of our police work. I believe that it is up to all of us, including the authorities and the executives of the zones, to see whether and how the organisation and operation can be optimised. With this cooperation and with these joint measures, I hope that we will be able to further increase the attractiveness of the police in the Flemish Rand, and in the event of enlargement throughout the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u31	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. I think I have heard some good things, especially that research will be carried out into the influx of candidates. I understand that we should be able to strengthen the PIVO. Of course, the NAVAP scheme remains an angel. Keeping everyone longer at work is a shared responsibility, but today there are few tools left. I look forward to the action plan being drawn up to keep people working longer. If we could receive these proposals before the summer, perhaps that would give us a better idea. I have noticed that there will be an investigation into the acceptance of a scale increase for police areas. That could be a good thing. Well, then I guess I'm stuck with the question of the Rand bounty. I may have misunderstood. Has it been agreed between the mayors and the chiefs of the police that they would draw up a proposal among themselves as regards the Edge premium? Did I understand correctly that they were going to apply for an Edge premium after all? That's not very clear to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u32	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. In Flemish Brabant there is a lot of scarcity in the labour market. This can be seen in the security sector, but also in all other sectors. That is the reality today in Flemish Brabant, in the outskirts of Brussels. That's why the influx from the police is crucial. You gave the figures yourself. You've kept your promise, and 1,600 people have flown in. Those figures have been confirmed and will also end up with the mayors and the chiefs of police. So I would like to thank you for being so up-to-date. Strengthening police schools is something for the long term, but they can deliver today to train those 1,600 people in a proper way. As far as the premiums are concerned, I've been mayor for 15 years, so I've been in the police college for 15 years. I have seen for years that six-monthly people travel to Brussels through a mobility round because they can earn more there. They're going to work with the Metropolitan Police and the local police areas in Brussels because they get 350 euros on top of the salary they get from us. In the meantime, maybe that's a little bit more. We are trying to meet this in an inventive way in our zones. We have introduced a multilingualism premium and give company bikes to people who live a little further away. That is all fiscally regulated, not to worry, but we have to do such things in order to get people. I maintain that we need to find a way to get the influx first to the most deficit zones, such as Grimbergen at -20 %, Vilvoorde-Halle at -28 % and AMOW at -20 %, so that there is no competition between the zones in Halle-Vilvoorde. Finally, I strongly believe in scaling up. There must be, but that will not solve the problem of the deficit zones. Especially in the areas of interventions and in the neighbourhood, there is a major problem in every area today. This scaling-up mainly means synergies in CALog and finding processes, but the influx is the most important. It is on the verge of doing so, and we must continue to do so, so that we can attract people to the scarce labour market.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u33	Madam Secretary, I have heard from our mayor and chief of police that the consultation was constructive. Both parties have therefore experienced the consultation as constructive. It's about the attractiveness of working in a police zone. Attraction also has to do with wages. At the end of the ride, people work to earn their living. Unfortunately, as Mr Vandenput said, young people often leave our outskirts towards Brussels, because they sometimes earn EUR 400 to 500 more. I'd probably do the same thing myself. If I have to pay off a mortgage loan for my house and I have 500 euros more on my account at the end of the journey, then my choice is made quickly. At yesterday's hearings on the KUL standard, it was often said that we should open this issue to the full funding of the police zones. The trade unions agreed on this. They also talked about well-being. Attraction is partly money. That's important to a lot of people. CD&V was absent during that debate with the trade unions. I was sorry that your party did not take part in this, because that also interests you. To my question to the trade unions to what extent they were involved in the reform of the States-General, they replied that they were not involved. I am very sorry about that, because the field of activity must be involved in such important matters. I am sure that you want to do a thorough work on this, but all actors should be able to participate in this story. That's gonna hit me in the chest a little bit. You may have a very good reason for that, but it slips away from me. Solutions are not obvious. In the end, no one will blame you for the lack of a solution tomorrow. We must work together on this, but all parties must sit at the table to carry out a thorough reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u34	Your reply slightly exceeded the question, but freedom of expression is also important.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u35	Minister, section 41, § 1 of the Police Function Act provides that "any member of the operational framework in service shall be able to be identified in all circumstances. The members of the uniformed operational framework shall thus wear a nameplate affixed in a visible and legible manner at a particular place of their uniform." It is my responsibility, however, and the P Committee also notes in one of its last reports following the protests "Black Lives Matter" and "Extinction Rebellion", that police officers unfortunately still do not comply with this legal provision. In fact, it seems that sometimes, especially in the context of demonstrations, agents cover the name on their uniforms, detach them from their uniforms or refuse to make known their identity to those who request it. Minister, in some incidents, particularly at the Etterbeek barracks during confinement, such problems were reported to us. We were able to discuss this during an exchange of questions and answers on this subject. Perhaps you will agree if I tell you that we cannot tolerate this type of behaviour. Therefore, Committee P recommends "to make police personnel who work in uniform recognizable by wearing a nominette or, depending on the mission and appreciation of the Chief of Corps, a plate on which the identification number is mentioned. The simple indication of the platoon number on the helmets of the personnel who are engaged in the field is obviously not sufficient to guarantee a personal identification". Minister, have you been able to read this report from Committee P? Have you received any returns from the land? According to my information, this problem seems to arise mainly in the Brussels Region, which concentrates more than 90% of the demonstrations in our territory. It therefore seems logical. Finally, how do you intend to strictly enforce Article 41 § 1 of the Law on the Police Function and the recommendations of the P Committee which refer to them, so as to be able to make the police officers aware of the importance of wearing their names? The aim is to prevent citizens from having doubts about possible wrong intentions which may not exist or which exist in the event of a complaint.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have obviously taken note of this report from Committee P. At the methodological level, no statistics are available to estimate the extent of the problem. The report indicates the receipt of various complaints by stating from the outset that, in different cases, several aspects of complaints are incorrectly reported and that the complainant is not himself the victim. It is also striking that the alleged victims themselves did not file a complaint. The Federal Police Legal Service is not aware of any specific litigation in this area. These findings do not, of course, remove the fact that a single complaint in this area would already be too much of a complaint. In any event, the reports state that any criminal acts have been reported to the prosecutors concerned. Committee P's recommendation on identification seems to paraphrase section 41 of the Police Function Act. The legal obligation to identify and its various methods of enforcement therefore exist. It is the responsibility of the superiors of the police services to ensure that the law is respected at all times, in so doing, also during the police missions referred to in the report of Committee P. It therefore seems to me sufficient to ask, through this reply, the Commissioner-General of the Federal Police and the chiefs of the local police to pay particular attention to this legal obligation, to assess the local necessity and to remind it specifically.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u37	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It is never superfluous to recall these legal provisions. These are, of course, echoes which are regularly discussed and which the P Committee has already mentioned in various reports. Unfortunately, this seems to happen during some demonstrations, especially, as I said earlier, on Brussels territory. Although no complaints are filed - it is known that victims rarely file complaints in this type of context - we must nevertheless pay attention to them. Indeed, I sincerely believe that, even if this type of behaviour takes place only once in a single demonstration, it will not help us to consolidate the relationship of trust between our police and our citizens. I hope that we can encourage our police officers to pay close attention to this issue, but also to the heads of bodies who, I hope, will be able to draw the attention of their police officers in particular to the importance of being identifiable at all times, with a view to protecting themselves, but also so that our citizens can have confidence in them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u38	Mrs Buyst is not present, her question No. 55026767C expires. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Prévot, Mr Prévot, Mr Prévot, Mr Prévot, Mr Prévot, Mr Prévot, Mr Prévot, Mr Prévot, Mr Prévot, Mr Prévot, Mr Prévot, Mr Prévot, Mr Prévot, Mr Prévot, Mr Prévot, Mr Prévot, Mr Prévot, Mr Prévot, Mr Prévot, Mr Prévot, Mr Prévot, Mr Prévot, Mr Prévot, Mr Prévot, Mr Prévot, Mr Prévot, Mr Prévot, Mr
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u39	I propose that we also refer to my question as it was tabled in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u40	Mrs Platteau, as Minister for the Interior, I do not yet have access to the report at this stage of the procedure. Administrative procedures shall be conducted only at the level of Frontex's Management Board. The Governing Board acts as disciplinary authority and has a duty to ensure that the procedure is conducted correctly, to respect everyone's rights and to ensure proper procedural handling. As these administrative procedures are still ongoing, the members of the Management Board are not at present allowed to comment further in order to protect the confidentiality of current and possible administrative procedures. The OLAF report to which you refer gave rise to the convening of a number of special boards of Frontex which met on 25 February and 25 and 29 March this year. During these special meetings of the Management Board, the current EU law rules and the procedures to be followed following the OLAF investigation were explained. The content of the file has not yet been discussed during these sessions. However, the Frontex Management Board decided to transfer the OLAF report to those concerned in the required form. This decision has already been implemented. On 28 and 29 April 2022, the dossier will be discussed for the first time within Frontex's Management Board. In this context, the key figures in the dossier will also be able to explain their views. Regular consultations are held with our representatives on the Board of Directors. We share the focus on respecting procedural safeguards. When continuing the procedure in a disciplinary investigation, the Belgian position will be determined in consultation with the State Secretary for Asylum and Migration. The Belgian representative on the Management Board will also be given the necessary instructions for its implementation. It is still premature to take a position on this at the moment, as the procedure is still under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u41	If I have understood your answer correctly, then there is a disciplinary procedure in progress within the board of directors acting as disciplinary authorities. They will therefore be discussing the matter for the first time at the end of this week. Otherwise, we don't know what will happen. We still do not have access to the OLAF report. Some things have already been leaked out in the paper. We read serious accusations about the management's cover-up of evidence of pushbacks. We read that in the newspaper while the final report is not yet publicly available. I think that we will indeed have to wait for a ruling to follow. That is all I can say at the moment. We will await the next steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u42	Madam Secretary, the violence during the football games doesn't stop. During the last weekend there were supporters of Royal Antwerp FC in Bruges who could not control themselves and climbed over the fence of the stands. At the beginning of April there were also serious incidents during a competition in Lier van de Lierse Kempenzonen. The police then intercepted ten hooligans, eight of which had a stadium ban in the Netherlands. Hooligans with a stadium ban in the Netherlands, Germany or France cannot be expected to come and watch Belgian football without problems. I hear you've had a conversation with the Pro League about this recently. How do you feel about these cross-border stadium bans? Is there a bilateral or multilateral agreement with one or more neighbouring countries? Is that an option to stop football violence? Have you communicated this with your colleagues in neighbouring countries? Where do you stand with the draft law on the amendment of the football law, which allows stricter penalties and higher fines to be imposed? I hope that it will also apply to foreign football support.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u43	I fully agree with you that a common approach is needed to reduce the phenomenon in which foreign supporters groups with bad intentions, whose members may or may not have a valid stadium ban in their own country, go to Belgium. We also noted this at the final of the Belgian Cup last week. Firstly, a good exchange of information during the preparation of a football match is crucial. For example, the exchange of information between police forces with the Netherlands is progressing well. The current legal framework allows for information exchange with our neighbouring countries. As you know, we are also preparing a new police convention that will further promote the exchange of information. Secondly, it is necessary to examine how information on stadium bans should be exchanged with our neighbouring countries. The football cell of the General Directorate of Security and Prevention follows up on this subject within the framework of the Benelux working group. The Working Group examines how the three countries can coordinate the enforcement of stadium bans. The regulation is also reviewed to ensure that a stadium ban imposed in one of the Member States can also be enforced in the other two Member States. Following a bilateral consultation between the Belgian federal government and the Dutch government on 19 April 2022, the so-called Thalassa consultation, I also briefly referred to this topic in the discussion with my colleague in the Netherlands because Belgian supporters are also going to the Netherlands or France. Apparently, that's a hobby. There is a draft law that provides for stricter penalties, longer stadium bans and higher fines, including for the possession and use of pyrotechnics. Before the draft is delivered to Parliament, I would first like to conclude the ongoing discussions within the Football Security Working Group, of course in consultation with the Royal Football Association and the Pro League. Such work must be completed before the start of the new football season. We will then look at how best to deal with the issue, because such regulation must also be enforced. As I have been able to experience over the past few months, it is, by the way, a very sensitive subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u44	I am glad that there is consultation and exchange, and that a number of things are in the scaffolding. You speak of enforcement yourself. How do our policemen know that someone from abroad has a stadium ban before he wants to enter a stadium? Maybe we should try out the technological possibilities in terms of facial recognition in one stadium, as a testing ground, with a blacklist? The COC has already proposed this. I'm an advocate of technology, especially in a controlled environment. Enforcement does indeed remain the major problem. We need to move forward step by step there, and the knowledge of the identity of foreigners with a stadium ban is such a step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u45	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 55026903 by Mr Demon is converted into a written question, along with his combined questions. 55026904C and 55026905C and his question No. 55026906C. Mrs Van Peel is still present on another committee. Mr De Smet is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u46	Minister, an article in De Standaard shows that the Belgian federal police are using Pegasus espionage software in judicial investigations. This software comes from the Israeli NSO Group and could be installed via a security leak in WhatsApp by various security services worldwide on user smartphones, giving full access to the device. This software can be used in the fight against terrorism and serious crime, but Spain appears to have used it as a espionage technique against Catalan politicians. In the American weekly The New Yorker, the CEO of the NSO Group states that "almost all European governments use our tools." Belgium is also mentioned as one of the customers. In a response, the federal police refuse to communicate on the resources deployed in the context of our investigations and missions, but anonymously it is confirmed that Belgium is using Pegasus in the fight against serious crime, such as drug trafficking, child abuse and terrorism. To try to get some clarity, I have the following questions. Is the federal police client at NSO Group? If so, since when? What is the total annual budget for using this software? On whose initiative was a contract concluded with NSO Group? Were you and the government aware of this? Were other competing companies contacted providing similar services and were tenders requested? Can you indicate if you can check how many judicial investigations into this software were used? What criminal offences have led to the use of this software? Was there always approval from an investigative judge? Do other Belgian authorities have access to this software? How does this procedure go, if any, with the OCAD, State Security, ADIV or any other intelligence service? The following questions are crucial. Within what legal framework and under what conditions can this software be used in Belgium? Have Belgian police or security services ever used this software for purposes other than a judicial investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u47	Mr Depoorter, I would first like to draw your attention to the answers given by the Minister of Justice to similar questions on this subject on 22 September. The methods and instruments used shall be communicated as little detail as possible in public, in accordance with the legal provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. This is necessary in order to ensure the effectiveness and sustainability of the resources used in the knowledge of private communications. One must be aware that too much transparency or too much publicity of the means used by the police to carry out certain investigations by judicial authorities may result in criminal organisations and terrorists adapting their behaviour and developing counter-strategies taking into account the information we have given them. This may lead to an increase in the threat level for our country. That is why the acquisition of those resources, which can also be used by our intelligence services, is always classified with a level of secrecy. Access to private communications is only possible if the legal framework is strictly respected. In cases where that is the case, the federal police respond to the questions of an investigating judge. He will instruct an officer of the judicial police, usually through a written investigation question which is limited in both subject matter and time and which must also be motivated. This means that at the time such an instruction is given, the people who are the subject of such a telephone or communication tap, have access to their judicial records and to the data that have been tapped or collected. Finally, there is also a possibility of a subsequent check by the Board of Appeal and also in the case of the substance of the case. In this way there is still a possibility of checking the method used or the method used.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u48	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. In any case, I will also request and reread the answers of the Minister of Justice. I understand a certain level of secrecy, especially since it involves, among other things, terrorist investigations. At the same time, allow me to say that I do not always feel safe in that area. In some reports from security and intelligence services, I read that the fight against extremism must be stepped up. Well, that's a little spacious. Sometimes I wonder if my smartphone is being tapped, because in the eyes of security and intelligence services I am an extremist because of my political views, because I am in favour of a different form of state than Belgium. I am in favour of a Flemish independent state and I can imagine that the Belgian intelligence services are not very pleased with that. I am of course presenting my position in a democratic way, but nothing can convince me that our Belgian intelligence services do not follow me, for example, because of my political views other than those of the ruling regime. I'd like to warn you about that danger. In addition, I read that in Spain, for example, the same software is used to follow a fellow spirit, a Catalan independence fighter. I am very concerned about this, and that should be of great concern to any democrat.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u49	Debates of the European Parliament 55027170C by Mr Boukili was combined with this question, but Mr Boukili is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u50	On Monday evening 18 April 2022 a shooting took place in the Beekkant district in Sint-Jans-Molenbeek, where a person died. Victim's a 20-year-old male. The unsub invaded his vehicle and shot him. The victim died on the spot," said the Brussels parquet. Given the nature of the facts, it seems to be a reckoning, but the court could not confirm that at the moment. According to the media, the incident is related to a territorial struggle between rival drug gangs. Such incidents took place on average once a month during the last six months. It is already the ninth shooting in the Brussels municipality since the beginning of September. In April this year there was another such shooting on the Merchtemsesteenweg in which a victim was shot in the leg. The incident was even the second shooting in the Merchtemsesteenweg since October. Also in the nearby Schoolstraat, Pastorijstraat, Bonneviestraat, Paalstraat and Menenstraat shootings took place in the past six months. All these crime scenes are within a radius of up to one kilometer between the subway stops Beekkant, Count of Flanders and Zwarte Vijvers. Can you confirm the facts of April 18th? Have any arrests been made? Can you confirm that there have been nine shootings since September 2021? Is there, as the media suggest, any settlement between drug gangs? Is the problem being mapped out and how is it anticipated by the police forces? Is the local police area still able to head both sides to that escalation of violence? Have you already contacted the mayor or the police chief of state on this matter? Is there a need for additional capacity from the federal police, additional resources, more advanced equipment or more staff? If so, in what way?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u51	I would like to give you an overview of the ten shooting incidents on the territory of Sint-Jans-Molenbeek since 1 September 2021. Six of these are likely to be linked to each other, and I am not speaking on pending dossiers. Three victims were injured; fortunately there were no fatalities. P.S.P.s have been drafted for murder, manslaughter or attempted murder, and one for beatings and injuries. In three other cases there are no known victims and there would only be material damage from fire shots on a façade, a car and a bus stop. Two other incidents are almost certainly related, but not to the other cases. Twice this is probably an isolated case, where once a deadly victim fell and once a wounded one. The support service local information intersection at the Brussels-West Police Area General Directorate Operations collects all legal information, analyses it and forwards it to the specific services or the relevant section of the investigation for further investigation. The service can count on, among other things, a criminal analyst and a strategic analyst. The service shall identify all legal phenomena on the territory of the police area and make maps available to the staff in addition to statistics. On the basis of the analyses, the services and patrols are adjusted or more in-depth judicial investigations are carried out. The service also provides various digital tools, such as a daily report and a briefing tool., to the staff. The police area's annual report shows an increase in the number of violent crimes. In the context of such acts of violence, it is difficult to carry out preventive work. This means that, after the facts have arisen, the area must act appropriately in cooperation with other partners by carrying out a proper investigation. The follow-up to the Victim Treatment Service also provides excellent work in this context. The facts rarely have an impact on the maintenance and restoration of public order on the territory of the municipality. If there is a need for additional capacity, we can always count on the solidarity of the other Brussels police forces and the DirCo of Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u52	Madam Minister, I understand from your reply that an analysis is being carried out of the phenomena in the neighbourhoods of the Brussels-West police area, which has to endure. But we can also ask ourselves where the phenomenon comes from. We find together with you that drug gangs are conquering per neighborhood in our cities. I do not think that we can wait any longer and that only prevention is enough to combat these phenomena. We must move towards more repression and change the fear of camp, from the fear of the citizen in the street to the criminal. We must have the courage to tackle crime harder. That requires political courage. This requires more men and modern techniques. That requires a judicial system. I have said on several occasions that without a strict prosecution policy we will continue to mop up with the tap open. That's motivating our security services. Madam Secretary, I call on you to work on this together with the Minister of Justice. It's not five to twelve, it's five to twelve in some major cities and certainly in some of the districts of our capital.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u53	Mr Donné apologizes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u54	Mr President, Minister, since 2020 the city of Kortrijk has been illegally requesting license plate data to fine parking violations. This is the result of a recent decision by the Data Protection Authority's Dispute Chamber after a complaint was lodged with the Data Protection Authority by a resident of the city. This is a particularly complex decision which considers, among other things, that the city of Kortrijk, as well as the FPS Mobility, did not have a proper authorisation to access the Crossroads bank of the vehicles. The Dispute Court considers that there is a breach of the principle of transparency, but also of accountability as contained in the General Data Protection Regulation. The Disputes Court seized this case in order to address the relationship between Belgian legislation on authorisations in the light of the General Data Protection Regulation and indicated that there are uncertainties in Belgian legislation and that these are mainly the result of choices of a regulatory nature. Have you taken note of the decision of the Dispute Court? How do you respond to this decision? Do you see whether there are any other cities, municipalities or agencies in this country that do not have proper authorization? Kortrijk may not be the only city with this problem, but that problem has just come to light because in Kortrijk a citizen has taken the necessary steps. Can you list the cities, municipalities and bodies concerned which may not have a proper authorisation? The decision is enforceable in stock and an ordinary appeal is not possible against a decision of the Disputes Court. There is, however, an administrative appeal, similar to the Council of State. This is done at the competent Market Court in Brussels. City of Kortrijk has meanwhile decided to appeal administratively, but that does not delay the contested decision, which is enforceable on stock. What if citizens take this decision today to challenge their fines? Do you have an insight into the impact of all fines issued with illegally obtained data? Are these fines on the ramp? Are you planning legislative and regulatory initiatives to finally eliminate the uncertainties outlined by the Disputes Chamber?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u55	Mr Vermeersch, the decision of the GBA Disputes Chamber of 4 March concerns the application of a local parking fee, involving the city of Kortrijk, but also the FPS Mobility, as defendants. As Minister of the Interior, I am not a directly involved party in the case, nor am I to judge it, although I am aware of it and take note of it. As you have said, the Dispute Court has decided that the city and the FPS should bring the communication of data from the Crossroads Bank of vehicles to the services of the city into line with the General Data Protection Regulation within two months. It will therefore be for them to take effective action on that decision which is enforceable in the case of stocks. For further information on that dossier, the state of play and any consequences for the fined citizens, please contact the city of Kortrijk or the FPS Mobility, because I do not have any further information on this myself. I would like to point out that in its decision the Court of Disputes referred to possible uncertainties in the regulatory framework and that, as far as I am concerned, it did not express itself in absolute terms. It goes without saying that account will be taken of the considerations that have been made in relation to matters within my area of competence, not so much this decision or appeals to these decisions, but possibly other elements. We will certainly take that with us for other decision-making.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u56	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I take note of the fact that you will take this with you in the future. The reason we are asking this question is that it exceeds the local level. That was not only my feeling, but apparently also that of Mr Donné. Cities and municipalities, as well as other bodies, must have proper authorisation. That is why this goes beyond the local level, but it was also found that citizens had to pay fines for which the data were obtained in a totally illegal way. That can count as a matter of careless administration. The problem arose when current Minister of Justice, Vincent Van Quickenborne, was still responsible mayor of Kortrijk. To this day, he's the mayor of the city. It is not easy to understand that, in the city where the Justice Minister is mayor of the title, the personal data of residents is being handled in a scandalous way. The city of Kortrijk, but also the FPS Mobility did not have the correct permissions to consult the dates of those license plates with the Vehicle Registration Service. I have also prepared an oral question on this matter for your colleague Mr Gilkinet. After receiving a parking ticket of 30 euros, the awake Kortrijkzaan was moved to the Dispute Chamber. Without the assistance of any lawyer, he has finally been right in front of the city's top attorneys and the FPS Mobility. The city of Kortrijk has already paid 60,000 euros to lawyers. With the appeal, this will result in an amount of EUR 100,000. Van Quickenborne and his colleagues prefer to spend EUR 100,000 in procedures to go to war against one of his own residents rather than admit that the one fine of EUR 30 was unjustly collected. I think this is a file that transcends the local. That is why I will refer to you, but we were already going to question Minister Gilkinet and we will look into this dossier further.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u57	Madam Minister, in the report on the recommendations of the POC Terrorist attacks, Professor Bruggeman noted in 2019 that the staff of the federal police is subject to a strong staff drain. We found that a third of the staff are over 50 years of age. It follows that these staff will be outflowing in about 10 years. That poses the federal police with the huge challenge of catching up with that outflow. This will include longer work, outsourcing of core tasks, private security companies and smart investment. We believe that there is still much room for improvement in this area. Steps have already been taken last year to increase inflow. That's fantastic, but it won't be enough. Not only the federal police, but also many local police areas are suffering from a large outflow of police officers. This was reported by the Chief Constable of Halle-Vilvoorde through the open letter we have already discussed. In your interim agreement with the police unions, you encourage staff to remain active as long as possible until the statutory retirement age. You indicated that every effort is being made to enable the staff who cannot avail themselves of the NAVAP scheme to carry out other tasks so that they can remain in work after 58 years of age. This would allow them to perform adapted functions in the future. Can you confirm that one third of federal police personnel are effectively over 50 years of age? Can you give the share of this group for the officers, middle and basic framework and the CALog staff? How much is the share of local police staff that will flow out? What measures can ensure that police staff continue to work longer? You often say that action will be taken, but so far I have not been able to take concrete action. The current exit regime is, as is known, timely until a new arrangement is made. Can you give us an update on this? Can you explain the alternative tasks and the adapted functions with which you wish to encourage staff to remain active after the age of 58?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u58	Based on the federal police staff of 31 March 2022, 36% of the total workforce is over 50 years old. Within the operational staff and CALog staff, respectively, the 50-plussed group shall account for 38.1% and 30.4% of the staff. In the case of officers, this is 71.7%, in the case of middle management 46.7% and in the case of the basic framework 27%. Based on the staff of the local police, on 31 March 2022 we found that 30.4% of the total workforce is over 50 years old. Within the operational staff and CALog staff respectively, the 50-plussed group accounts for 28.7% and 38.2% of the staff. So that relationship is opposite to that of the federal police. For the officers, that is 62.1%, for the middle management 39.4% and for the basic framework 22.3%, so a little lower than for the federal police. The 50-plussers will leave the organization within now and 17 years for age reasons. I recently asked the Federal Police Permanent Commission to further develop the end-of-life policy. There are organisational elements. We work with federal and local police and the mobility between zones is not always obvious for predictable reasons. When one looks at all these functions from a distance in their globality, it seems obvious that people want to move, but because of the structure that is not so obvious. Some areas also prefer the recruitment of new, young police inspectors, rather than a somewhat older inspector, even if they could do the same work. Those zones admit it themselves. There is currently no funding mechanism for this. People who are used to many interventions are not always looking for a function that has to be filled in in a completely different way, even though it seems very conceivable on paper. That is the kind of problem that we are facing and which we must continue to address. An adaptation of the GPI 85 circular could also be considered, making the adapted relations more accessible within the integrated police force, proposing a sufficient number of adapted relations and clarifying statutory possibilities as part of an end-of-life policy such as a four-day working week or half-time work from a certain age and the possibility of tailor-made homework. Those are all parts of that plan. The intention is to move forward with this. We want to keep as many people on the force as possible. There are also very motivated people who do not even need an external conviction. It's a puzzle with a lot of pieces, but we're working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u59	Madam Minister, it is indeed as you have pointed out, the theory and practice are often miles apart. It's not because we want something that it would actually be carried out. However, we notice clearly from the figures that there is an enormous amount of work to be done. A concrete plan, an activation of those people, must be put in place very quickly, otherwise the situation could become even more painful.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u60	Mr President, Madam Minister, I have already been able to question you on several occasions and, moreover, Secretary of State Mahdi too, on this issue of the integrity of the borders of the European Union. We know that new financial resources had already been announced a moment ago to strengthen Frontex, and you have very well explained to me the European decisions that have been taken and the objectives of strengthening the human and material resources of the European Agency. However, we have received a final short-term note from Frontex indicating that illegal migration and illegal crossing of the EU's external borders have not been as important since 2016. Last year, compared with the same period of the previous year, there was a 57% increase in illegal crossings. It is therefore Frontex who specifies it in his note. We're talking about the first quarter of 2022. We are talking about illegals, which are therefore unrelated to the temporary protection that is in force for Ukrainian refugees. This would concern mainly, and again, Syrians, Afghans by way of the Balkans, Nigerians and Congolese by way of the East Mediterranean, Moroccans and Guineans by way of the West. Frontex is making a clear warning of this increase, which seems to be quite in contradiction with previous European announcements that priority should be given to respect for the integrity of the Union's borders. This is, of course, a more fundamental issue because we must now – I do not teach you – ensure solidarity, unprecedented on the European continent, with a flow of Ukrainian war refugees at the gates of Europe, as had not been the case since the Second World War. It is a fundamental issue also in view of the situation in some European border states, but also from the point of view of democracy, with the rise of extremes and – as we have seen quite recently in our French neighbours – a heavy presence of the far right in the second round of the presidential election. Therefore, Madam Minister, can you tell me what analysis is being made by your services of the latest information provided by Frontex. What are the new concrete means planned in 2022 and 2023 to strengthen Frontex and its role at the borders? What timetable has the Union decided on in this respect? Where are we in the effectiveness of these reinforcements? More specifically, what reinforcements have been provided to the Monitoring and Monitoring Service over the past six months, in what places and with what collaborations? Finally, what new steps have you possibly taken in the European Councils and with your counterparts in order to speed up border strengthening, thank you already.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u61	Mr Pivin, Frontex carries out the analyses based in particular on the statistical information provided by the Member States. These analyses are carried out for the benefit of the Agency and all Member States and are part of the basis for reorienting joint operations. In 2019, as a follow-up to Regulation 2019/1896 in its Articles 54 et seq., a permanent body, the Frontex standing body, was created to strengthen Frontex and cope with increasing migratory pressure. This body has been active since January 1, 2021. It was initially composed of 6,500 members. It will be extended in the coming years and by 2027 it will have 10,000 people. The current members of this corps are deployed as required based on the risk analysis. Each Member State is obliged to contribute to this body. However, the final location and deployment period are decided by Frontex according to needs and priorities. The number of permanent personnel deployed and the operations in which they operate can change and move in accordance with the constantly changing needs and requirements. The situation at our external borders with Ukraine is a good example. Given that the permanent body is still under development, it is premature to propose new initiatives at this stage. In addition, the Regulation itself provides for an assessment of both the size of the permanent body and the content of the Regulation, an exercise which was recently launched by the European Commission and which must now be completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u62	Thank you, Minister. I have no reply to make at this stage of your presentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u63	Madam Minister, Police Watch, a project of the League of Human Rights, has recently published a report on the police complaints mechanism. They've conducted an investigation in which they've interviewed victims of police brutality. This has revealed a number of important concerns about the existing grievance mechanisms. Firstly, the complaint mechanisms are not sufficiently accessible. Secondly, there is a jungle of procedures whereby victims of the trees no longer see the forest if they want to complain. Thirdly, lack of information hinders access to procedures. Between 2013 and 2017, there were 145 final judgments in Belgium condemning a total of 20 police officers. Police Watch's report concludes that these figures are very low compared to the more than 3,000 complaints files received by the P Committee alone in 2020. Due to the limited results, victims get the feeling that a procedure against malpractice by the police is a lost effort. Another important concern highlighted in the report is the independence and impartiality of the complaint procedure. The P Committee would not take sufficient account of the perspective of the victims. They ask for a more multidisciplinary composition of the body, because this would be a major step forward. That recommendation was already made by the AIG. The report further concludes that police control is inefficient and reform is insisting. The demand for a better independent complaint mechanism is not new. The United Nations Committee against Torture has already called on the Belgian State to improve internal and external control mechanisms. The Flemish Youth Council has already made a recommendation on this. Have you read Police Watch's report? What conclusions do you draw from this? How can we improve the provision of information on the various complaints procedures? The report also calls for a single point of contact where victims can register and receive guidance on the procedures for lodging complaints. Are you in favour of a single registration window for complaints? Do you agree with the criticism of the composition of the P Committee's research department? Do you also think it should be extended or more multidisciplinary? What steps will you take to make the customer mechanism more accessible, efficient and independent?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u64	Mrs Platteau, of course we have taken note of that report by Police Watch. In our country, a citizen has different possibilities to complain about violence by police forces, namely through the internal control service, through the AIG or through the P Committee. For the federal police, this can also be done via the complaint form on the federal police website. In principle, this website contains all useful information on the possibility for a citizen to lodge a complaint about an intervention or a contact with its services. Increasing accessibility and trust in the complaints mechanism is a constant focus. This element was also discussed with the Flemish Youth Council. It may be more informational than need to change systems effectively. We have to work on that, too. In any case, the federal police included the development of customer-oriented complaint management as a strategic objective in the Integrity Policy Note for the Federal Police. This objective is now being further developed on the basis of five operational objectives, focusing on improving the visibility and availability of the unique complaints point for citizens, as well as on the registration of complaints, the lead time and the qualitative follow-up of complaints, as well as on constructive relations with the control body and with Unia, by means of a report in the form of an annual report with recommendations. I am therefore convinced that we will be able to discuss this issue further at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u65	Madam Minister, you say it yourself, there are several ways in which citizens can complain, namely internal supervision, AIG and Committee P. Of course, it is not obvious as a citizen to know what the best way is now. It is important to streamline this mess of complaint procedures more effectively so that complaints can also be dealt with in a more streamlined way. Is an internal complaint to a police area currently treated in the same way in each zone? Is there an overarching view of all complaints coming in? In addition to the need for information, it is very important that the complaint treatment itself is more streamlined. In particular, lessons should be learned from this and from organisational control, consider how complaints management can be used to improve the organisation. This should ultimately also be an objective of complaint management. In any case, I am open to further debate on this issue. There are also legislative proposals on the complaints mechanism under consideration in committee. You can therefore count on the support and cooperation of our group to improve complaints procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u66	Madam Minister, this question concerns an interview with the Commissioner-General of the Federal Police in De Standaard on 11 April. It is very unusual for a Commissioner-General to open a booklet and express his opinion on the very poor regulation of police funding. I quote: At the end of last year, the government decided to save. By 2024, 83 million of our resources will be lost." He noted that most of the so-called extra funds received by the federal police were needed to finance the operation. He calls the savings a big cut through the bill and says the government puts his corps in a catch 22. The federal police services need to save, but at the same time you want additional people to be recruited and people to be kept at work longer, says Mr De Mesmaeker, Federal Police Commissioner General. That seems to me to be a very serious crisis within our police apparatus. That, of course, raises questions. Again, because it is not the first time, and I am not afraid that we will have to and will question you about the prevailing malaise within the police force. Madam Secretary, how do you respond to the unhindered criticism of the Commissioner-General, with whom you have weekly contact? Is there still mutual trust between you and the Commissioner-General? What do you think of his claim that the requested savings of EUR 83 million cannot be realized mathematically? You've been working on the famous state general of the police for a while. Much is being said about it, but we do not see very much concrete results. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to ask you what concrete results have already emerged from this, or when you expect concrete results. Do you stick to a timetable? Is that timetable still in place or do you need to adapt it? One of the points raised by the Commissioner-General is a reduction in the number of police areas from 185 to 50, which should lead to efficiency. Do you agree with that view? Do you agree with him on the capacity problem he raises? Another problem raised by the Commissioner-General concerns the Federal Police helicopters that would need to be replaced. How many helicopters does the Corps have now? Is it true that 3 new helicopters of EUR 15 million each would be needed? Have you provided a budget for this? Are there any other substantial material purchases that should be foreseen this year and in the coming years? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u67	Mr Depoostere, as regards your first question, I can reassure you. There is certainly still confidence in the Commissioner-General, with whom I have a very close contact to follow up on all the work, but also on the priorities of the integrated police, including the budget. With regard to the work on the States-General announced as a umbrella, in which various initiatives are mainly bottom-up and follow-up, preparations are currently being made to update the various working groups. That will happen at the mid-term event in Kortrijk on May 10th. I asked to invite the Members of this committee to this event and I would urge you to take part in it. The final event we have foreseen will, in principle, take place in March 2023. With regard to the question of scale and number of zones, it seems clear to me that the limited scale of some zones makes it difficult to respond effectively to all security issues. It is not always possible, given the limited scale, to give an answer to the basic functionalities, which we certainly mean in the material sense of the word, given the limited resources and capacities that exist within the zones. I will not speak today about the ideal number of zones. I do not think we should do that, but there have been a number of voluntary mergers and our objective should be to go further. It is also seen that certain zones, even without a merger, continue to cooperate, as this will enable certain business concepts, such as sharing HR assistance, to be realised. The state of the federal judicial police to which you refer is the subject of a special succession. I'm not just doing that, I'm doing it together with the Minister of Justice, where there are huge challenges for the federal judicial police. This is largely related in the field to the Sky ECC file, where large amounts of data are made available and where capacity in the fight against organised crime is deployed in the Sky ECC file. Of course, this commitment has repercussions on the capacities of other dossiers. It is also true that the techniques of judicial investigation have become more complex in recent years and that we therefore have to answer them. The government is well aware of the challenges of the FGP. Together with the Minister of Justice, I discussed a number of envisaged objectives in the plenary session on 3 February. We also discuss these further and look for additional resources, which we have already partly used to equip the FGP further. I cannot correct past disinvestments, but we are now looking for additional resources to help the entire police, not just the FGP. The Minister of Justice and myself are also shortly to sit down with the Federal Police Executive Committee to discuss this. With regard to certain infrastructures, materials or resources, Mr Depoostere, I can tell you that the federal police have a fleet of five two-engine helicopters, 25, 24, 22, 14 and 13 years old respectively, two single-engine helicopters aged 22 and 21 years old and two aircraft aged 43 and 42 years old. The two oldest two-engine helicopters, the two single-engine helicopters and the aircraft should be replaced, but they require very large budgets. Of course, the final purchase price will depend on the brand and the model. This is to be determined and determined in the context of future public procurement, with the indicative cost size estimated at EUR 15 million. The federal police are currently studying how this investment could be included in the available funds. Within our envelope, however, every year for the operating and investment expenses of the federal police provide funds that are structuralally necessary. In addition, every year we have to replace basic investments with new purchases, such as for ICT equipment but also vehicles. Finally, there are some substantial punctual material purchases, such as the expansion of the ANPR network, the replacement of the cell cars used by DAB for the transport of prisoners, but also some other expenses. In this legislature, the federal government provides for an additional budgetary injection. Net is that EUR 240 million in additional resources, cumulatively calculated against the multiannual budget in the case of unchanged policies. This is still separate from the means for the sectoral agreement. The extra budgets for the police thus largely exceed the generic savings imposed on all federal departments and thus on the federal police. In this legislature, therefore, more resources go to the police than before, but we must of course catch up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u68	The latter is certainly true. Of course, the interview with Commissioner-General Marc De Mesmaeker does not come out of the sky. The College of Attorneys has also made an urgent appeal, through President Ignacio de la Serna. He also raised the alarm about the situation at the FGP. In this committee yesterday there was a hearing following a bill on the financing of police areas. As a closing piece, the four police unions came on the floor. I was surprised that they did not feel involved in the creation and development of the states-general you have deployed. In any case, we will answer your invitation to the event on May 10th. I even asked the committee secretariat to postpone all the work of that day so that no member of the Committee on the Interior has an excuse not to go there. I will follow you if you say that you do not want to put a specific figure on the exact number of police areas today. But we do agree that it needs to be reduced. But there's still some work to be done, Madam Secretary. Also yesterday during the hearings I noticed a great difference in vision between the north and south of the country. On the Walloon side, there seems to be much less propensity to form larger police zones than on the Dutch-speaking side. Of course, I'd say. You are giving extra resources, but the great pain is that they must be used to reduce the deficit that has been built up in recent years. That's the problem. We need more resources. Now the deficit is somewhat reduced. That will not prove sufficient in the future if we want to achieve a decent security policy. The cries made by top magistrates and the Commissioner-General that organised crime cannot be adequately combated by the means they now have say enough. You want to roll out a plan 3.0 to strengthen the FGP with more cars, more people and more resources. However, this requires additional resources. That is what you should be knocking on the budget table for. You have to stand up for our police forces, along with Mr. Van Quickenborne. I'm counting on that, and the police and security services are counting on that much more.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic767x.u69	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Senesael's 55027256C has been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 55027224C by Mr Vandenput has been withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Thiébaut's 55027245C has been converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 55027257C and 55027260C by Mr Senesael have been postponed.
