ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u1	Madam President, I refer to the question tabled. I should have asked this question in writing. During the Committee on Budgets on 29 March, you replied to my question on the defence budget. In order to structurally increase the defence budget to 2% by 2030, you indicated that the following amounts would be needed: 2023 354 mio 2024 932 mio 2025 1,475 mia 2026 2,046 mia 2027 2,441 mia 2028 3,531 mia 2029 4,330 mia 2030 4,765 mia In this context, I would like to ask you the following questions: What would this trajectory have looked like if, as was the case earlier, a route to 1.26% would be followed by 2030? What would this trajectory look like if, as the government has recently decided, a path to 1,54% were followed? What would this trajectory look like if the government decided to take a path to 1.77%? For the path to 2%, as you replied to at the committee meeting of 29 March as mentioned above: is this absolute amount to be included in addition to the current baseline scenario (1,26)? Or above the 1.54% scenario?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u2	Mr Loones, I have a comprehensive answer to that, with a lot of figures. Shall I deliver it to you in writing? It's whole lists that indicate how many million are needed every year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u3	Madam Secretary of State, that's good.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u4	Madam Secretary of State, this question again goes to the essence. We know that on 1 April 2022 a budgetary control was carried out by your government, but without much control. Moreover, we are going to summer and we know that we will have to talk again about the budget for 2023. It is interesting to hear again before that debate on budgetary control exactly what the ambition is, so what the current government wants to do. After all, we read every day in the newspaper that the Croo government is not the reform government that some had hoped for. Today Kristof Calvo declared in the newspaper that the dash is out. On the other hand, you will give interviews to Villa Politica who are more ambitious. We do not hear from the Prime Minister. He just spins around the pot when we ask him questions or doesn't answer tout court himself. That's one hatch, being the political part. However, there is also the technical hatch. Here in committee we have received the governor of the National Bank of Belgium, Mr Wunsch, a few times. He argued that the economic parameters are still so positive that they should have the effect of adjusting the level of ambition upwards, which is also stated in the government agreement. If the parameters were right, the current government would make more efforts. In addition to the budgetary control that we will be discussing here in Parliament in the next few weeks, I would have liked to know in what context you see it all. Is there really anything else coming?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u5	Madam President, this was perfectly expressed by Mr Loones. I therefore refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u6	At the end of last week, the budgetary control documents were submitted to Parliament and the stability programme 2022-2025 to the European Commission. In the next few weeks we will be able to discuss the budget in detail in this committee. The last two years have been marked by the impact of the effects of the corona crisis. In this context, the various levels of government have taken many measures to protect public health and to support the economic and social fabric. Now that the end of this pandemic seemed to be in sight and we could once again focus on the other policies and the necessary reforms, we were faced with a number of new shocks affecting the economy and society. Russia's invasion of Ukraine on 24 February, the explosive rise in energy prices and rising inflation led to a downward revision of the economic outlook and forced the government to take appropriate, special and often one-off measures which, while putting pressure on public finances, are absolutely necessary to safeguard citizens and businesses as far as possible. At the end of April Belgium submitted the stability programme 2022-2025 to the European Commission. The route included for entity I was approved by the federal government. In addition to the annual budgetary effort of 0.2% decided in the government agreement, for the period 2023-2025, we expect an annual additional structural variable effort of 0.2% of GDP compared to unchanged policies, pending the next budgetisation. The government has stated that the level of this structural variable effort depends on economic growth and economic recovery and that it will be fixed each year in budgetary terms on the basis of the latest figures from the Federal Planning Office's economic budget. In other words, it now contains 0.2%, but at the time of budgetisation it may be changed on the basis of the economic outlook at that time. It is precisely because they are so volatile now that it is difficult to record them definitively. We are assuming the 0.2% set out in the coalition agreement plus a 0.2% variable, or perhaps better if the economic situation so permits. In the path presented to Europe, entity I's structural balance would thus decrease from -3.4% in 2022 to -2.1% by 2025. The nominal balance of entity I would decrease from -3.8% in 2022 to -2.2% in 2025.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u7	Madam Secretary of State, you are a little more precise than the Prime Minister, for which we thank you, but of course we had hoped for more details and more decisiveness. However, that is not your responsibility. We have seen whose voice weighs the hardest behind the scenes and at the government table. I would like to make a few comments. Firstly, the coalition agreement does indeed provide for a fixed and variable effort. However, the story that you would continue to follow the line of the coalition agreement is not correct. Everyone knows that the level of ambition in the coalition agreement was higher. Moreover, we have seen evidence of this in the preparation of the 2022 budget, where an effort of EUR 3 billion would have been made if the coalition agreement had been followed, but it has only become an effort of EUR 2 billion. We have discussed this in detail in Parliament. If I were you, I would probably do the same thing, and I would pretend that the coalition agreement is still being respected, when we all know better. Secondly, you are referring again to a number of obvious facts. The Prime Minister also constantly refers to corona and Ukraine, but we all know that. No one's questioning that either. However, one deliberately creates an atmosphere as if we are in the same situation as the other countries and are also tackling things in the same way, whereas we are not. Last week, we again saw figures from the International Monetary Fund showing that the Belgian budget is simply the worst of the whole European Union, with the exception of Romania. For the rest, however, Belgium is doing the worst of all industrialized countries, even over the large lake. I really hope that one day we will see a higher level of ambition for this government, although we realize that it may be dreaming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u8	Madam Secretary of State, I am asking my question because you yourself set the target of 3%, not long before the corona crisis, but also during the corona crisis, when you knew the impact of that crisis. For the 3 % rule you put forward, Europe is looking at the joint government. You referred in your reply to the Stability Programme. At the end of April, we all received Belgium's Stability Programme for 2022 to 2025. In these figures, we see for the joint government that the balance of claims is the figure Europe is looking at at at -3.4 %. We even arrive at -3.5 % to -3.6 % for 2023, the year in which the milder European budgetary rules are normally coming to an end. So you are not achieving your objective, in accordance with the plans you submitted to the European Union at the end of last week. You must also be very clear. It is problematic that, in your capacity as Secretary of State for Budget, you do not make it clear in your communication whether you are talking about entity 1 or the joint government. If you are talking about the target of 3%, you need to talk about the joint government, where some of your colleagues are represented at other levels. It is clear that the stability programme submitted last Friday does not meet your own 3 % target. If the normal European budgetary rules come back into force in 2023, Belgium may end up on the penalty bench.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u9	It just became known that inflation continues to rise. New simulations from the Federal Planning Bureau confirm that we are in very volatile times. It's hard to estimate everything. The legislative texts relating to budgetary control have not yet been submitted and have already become obsolete. Our companies will be able to pay 22 billion extra wages instead of 20 billion. Life is becoming more expensive everywhere, but especially with us. In Europe, inflation is even higher in the Baltic countries, but for the rest, life is becoming much more expensive for us. We're not doing as well as other countries. So I will keep asking you again and again why we see the government's ambition and not the ambition to take additional action when it is necessary. We have now seen the 1 May statements, especially of the PS and PS ministers. Don't they realize they're ministers, too? Communicating can be done by anyone, but driving is what we should expect, especially in terms of the labour market. Where are labour market reforms? Where are the pension reforms? Will you finally make a point that when measures are not substantiated, the payback effects in your budget will be removed? If there is simply no butter in the fish, there should be no payback effects.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u10	Indeed, the government reached an agreement on the employment deal on 25 February. As I indicated at our committee meeting on 15 March, the employment deal is a booster for modernising the labour market. The deal provides flexibility for employees, a relaxation of our e-commerce and better protection for platform workers, and makes the right to deconnection, triggering dismissal law and lifelong learning hard. These are important elements to keep workers on board in times of a changing labour market. In addition, an additional package of measures will be proposed by the Council of Ministers at the second reading of the draft, indicating an inter-federal platform. The second reading of the draft law has not yet taken place. The additional proposals were also not discussed in the government. For more information on the state of play of the supplementary package, please refer to my colleague Pierre-Yves Dermagne, the Minister for Labour.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u11	I'm sorry about that. You often point out that more needs to be done, but you hardly do that today. You simply point out that a deal has already been made, but I do not need to repeat that it is called the mini-work deal. There's a reason it's called a mini-work deal. If it comes from these measures, we will reach 80% employment in the year 2060. You yourself say that this should be achieved by 2030. I don't know if you're on Twitter or if you've found time to check on Stijn Baert today? It is worrying, Madam Secretary of State, that we are in the present state of affairs with a government that does not rule, while the budgetary needs are enormous. You can shake your head, but the reality is what she is. We have a government that simply does not rule the main departments, which are actually calling for reforms. I can't help but wonder how little amazement that is.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u12	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, with regard to budgetary control, we have received documents on which we are somewhat concerned. We had learned that the notifications had still not been approved on 13 April, so that they could be delivered to the FOD BOSA only later, which will then have to go back to work to get all the tables in order. In the meantime, we have received these tables. They are also on the website of the Chamber, for which I am grateful. Madam Secretary of State, the budgetary control was implemented on 1 April. On what day exactly were the notifications approved? Can these notifications also be delivered to Parliament? We have not yet received it. I assume that it will not be a problem to deliver it to us, but I would like to hear it confirmed. From my question I would also specifically like to highlight the element of communication with the administration of the FOD BOSA, but also with the Court of Auditors. Did that communication go smoothly? Were the experts able to work on the figures in good time?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u13	Madam President, Mr Loones, let me begin by saying that the budget documents were submitted to Parliament before the end of April. The general explanation was signed by the Minister responsible on 28 April and presented to Parliament on 29 April. The permission to print was also given on 29 April. The general budget of expenditure and the budget of resources were signed by the King on 28 April and presented to Parliament on 29 April. Work is still under way on preparing the documents. The timing of the submission of the budgetary control documents provided for in the 2003 Act was therefore respected. I assume that the documents will be available to Members of Parliament shortly and that we will discuss them in detail in the coming weeks. The timely submission of the documents in Parliament is a piece of work that is carried out by all administrations, with the FOD BOSA in particular. The budget discussions were concluded on 1 April, but the notifications, 56 pages, were only final on 14 April due to discussion points. The FOD BOSA was kept informed throughout the process and also provided informal contacts with the Court of Auditors, so that the Court of Auditors did not have to wait for the submission of the documents in Parliament to start its work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u14	Madam Secretary of State, I thank you, first of all, for your answer and certainly for the last point, namely that there are already some informal contacts. Secondly, the notifications were adopted on 13 and 14 April 2022: what communication on social media and in the press can achieve. That's what could at least be assumed. After all, we started to communicate on 13 April 2022 about the fact that those notifications had still not been approved. Suddenly this is the case on 14 April 2022. That will only encourage us to continue to communicate critically about the budget with continued attention. You did not, however, answer the question of whether we are getting those notifications. We now know that we are talking about 56 pages. But can they also be delivered to Parliament? The documents are already on the website, but not the notifications. It would be useful for the debate if we could use them together to prepare for the exchange of views.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u15	Mr Loones, we will look into it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u16	Madam Secretary of State, on Saturday 9 April, the Prime Minister said at the Stand Up For Ukraine donor conference: 'The Belgian Government has decided to release EUR 800 million to help Ukraine and Ukrainian refugees, from temporary reception in Belgium to humanitarian aid in Ukraine and neighbouring countries. On this seemingly, Belgian trucks with medical assistance and food are on their way. We continue our efforts as long as necessary, Belgium leaves no one in the lurch." The Prime Minister's cabinet could not explain further about the 800 million euros, their exact distribution and how much was already spent. At the donor conference, more than EUR 10 billion was promised to Ukraine, of which 8% was promised by Belgium alone. In a discussion on budgetary control on 18 March 2022, almost a month earlier, you indicated that the war in Ukraine had already spent EUR 800 million more in a few weeks, a similar amount. It would be tax money intended for the reception of refugees, supplies of military equipment, fuel and other support to Ukraine. You said in the morning on Radio 1 that you would estimate this at EUR 800 million for the first few months. Is it the same EUR 800 million? If so, is it serious to quote a budget commission at a donor conference? How did this EUR 800 million come together? What amount is released for humanitarian aid? How much of that 800 million euros was actually transferred to Stand Up For Ukraine or directly to Ukraine itself? What proportion of this EUR 800 million is going to cost in Belgium, as you mentioned on the radio? I look forward to your answer and I think that the whole world is looking forward to your answer after that conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u17	Madam President, in the course of budgetary control it was indeed decided to register a commission of 800 million to finance that expenditure, i.e. general expenditure, all expenditure linked to the war in Ukraine. By analogy with the corona commission, it was re-opted to work with a commission, as this allows to respond quickly to urgent needs. I have explained to you one of the previous times that we have tried to see how much this crisis could cost us as well and as badly as possible and with many different parameters. Firstly, we do not know how long this crisis will last. Secondly, there were different numbers of refugees coming to Belgium. I remember talking about 250 000 refugees. That number appears to be much lower now. On the basis of these calculations, we have indeed foreseen some EUR 800 million for six months. With so many uncertainties and parameters unknown, it is of course very difficult. Most of this commission will be used effectively for the costs of reception and living wages for the refugees. Of course, there are also additional expenditures resulting from the war, namely defence costs and humanitarian aid. The amount for humanitarian aid was estimated at EUR 250 million and can be financed through this commission. A commission is not a guesswork, but it is a calculation that is known in advance that it will not be 100% correct. However, this is the order of magnitude as estimated at the time we calculated the commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u18	Madam Secretary of State, I'm a little upset about your answer. My question was where the EUR 800 million came from at the donor conference. I'm just trying to reconstruct it. The Prime Minister calls you, says he will have to donate a sum to Ukraine and asks what else can be done in the budget. You will then reply that you still have a commission of 800 million, which has to do with Ukraine, that he simply has to give up that amount and that you will see how that will be dealt with afterwards. You also say that the commission may change, that such a thing is never fully established. That is not the message the Prime Minister delivered at that donor conference. At the donor conference, the Prime Minister said you were going to donate $800 million to Ukraine. He added that Belgium does not abandon anyone. That's a completely different message from the one you're bringing here. You are sending a message about a commission, a volatile amount that can be adjusted and which only involves costs within the Belgian budget, i.e. within Belgium's borders. However, the Prime Minister told the cameras at the international forum a story about an amount of EUR 800 million, which would almost be given as a gift to Ukraine. That is quite different from what we hear from you here today. In fact, I find it inappropriate to quote a commission at a donor conference. The fact that Mr De Croo said that we are not abandoning anyone is, of course, very cynical. He has delivered a lying message there, because purple-green of course leaves many people in the lurch. A lot of people don't know how to pay their bills at the end of the month. Then saying that Belgium does not abandon anyone is very cynical. The message also turns out to be lying, because it is a budget commission, which is not at all the same as a gift to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u19	Madam Secretary of State, that's right. Let's face it, that's pretty embarrassing, isn't it? Here, internally, Prime Minister De Croo gets away with it. He shields with terms like Ukraine and corona. Apparently, he assumed that it would also be sufficient internationally to wave a check and pretend to give a gift. It is quite embarrassing when it turns out that this is not the case at all. I understand that people have ambitions, whether national or international, but those who want to get far communicate fairly. I believe that the honest analysis is that this has not happened in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u20	Madam Secretary of State, only Romania has a larger budget deficit in 2027 than Belgium. That's how the newspaper wrote De Tijd on her front page. This is in stark contrast to the fact that the same country almost guaranteed 10% of all donations at the donor conference and therefore has the second worst budget of all industrialized countries. That's a very cynical spectacle, isn't it? In its latest outlook for the world economy, the IMF predicts that Belgium will record the largest government deficit in the industrialised countries in 2027. In the European Union, only Romania will go deeper into red. The IMF also reduced the growth forecasts for Belgium. This adjustment has implications for the budget, which had already been derailed by the pandemic. One way to get the accounts in order is to reform, but if there's one thing the government doesn't succeed in, it's reform. What reform do you, as Secretary of State for the Budget, consider necessary in order to get the budget back on track? According to the IMF, Belgium remains an absolute leader in public spending. The spending reviews you have planned will clearly not be enough to straighten the whole thing out. How do you intend to reduce public expenditure? This too is necessary in order to get the budget on track and not to be the brunt of all industrialised countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u21	Mr Vermeersch, according to IMF estimates, Belgium will have a nominal deficit of 5.4 percent of gross domestic product by 2027. However, this contrasts sharply with the government's ambition. For example, at the end of last week Belgium submitted the Stability Programme 2022-2025 to the European Commission. By 2025, the standardized nominal balance for joint government would have a deficit of 2.7 %. If I put the IMF figures next to it, Belgium's deficit would rise to 4.8 % according to the IMF. That is a difference of no less than 2.1 %. The Monitoring Committee also estimated the nominal deficit for the joint government at 3.5 % for 2025 under unchanged policies, which is ultimately 1.3 % of the IMF's estimate. It is important to examine what is or is not included in the IMF figures. It may not yet be possible to take account of the measures still being taken, such as those taken in the fight against tax fraud and those which form part of the annual fixed effort of 0.2 %. Nor has it been possible to take into account the annual additional structural variable effort, which is nevertheless included in the federal government agreement and which has been included in the Stability Programme. During the budget preparation for 2022, the government stated that the level of that structural variable effort is dependent on economic growth and economic recovery and that it will be determined each year in the budget format on the basis of the latest figures from the Federal Planning Office's economic budget. In the Stability Programme, a similar effort was charged to Entity II on the basis of the distribution key proposed by the Supreme Court of Finance. I cannot therefore anticipate the debate that will take place only after the budget for 2023 has been drawn up. In any case, it is my opinion that reforms, such as pension reforms and the employment deal, are necessary if we are to ensure the sustainability of public finances. Among other things, the government's ambition to get more people to work remains primordial. The more people are at work, the stronger the social security system. As far as the spending reviews are concerned, I continue to think that is an important technique. Its use is also included in the government agreement following the European Commission's country-specific recommendations to improve the composition and efficiency of public expenditure and thus to create margins to increase public investment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u22	The government can't get any real reform done. The reason for this is the fact that the government is composed of seven parties, with four different ideologies. It concerns, for example, the reform of pensions, the tax reform with the smart VAT reduction, which has been announced several times in the meantime, but of which no one has ever seen texts, as well as the nuclear power stations. All major reforms are being pushed forward without a concrete solution. So it is not a reform government, it is a congestion government, which puts a jam of files in the waiting room and postpones its treatment to the Greek calendar. You are absolutely right that the technique of spending reviews is good, but it will not suffice. You will not get there with your spending reviews to get the ship back in better water. The Liberals have been at the policy knobs in Belgium for 23 years now in the various governments and the public debt and public spending have only increased. Your President announced in his project Liberal Fire, of which you are, by the way, one of the initiators, that the Constitution should lay down that public expenditure should not exceed 50% and that it should even be aimed at 45%. However, if we allow the Vivaldi government to continue, public expenditure will only increase further and the public debt will only increase. We're at 54% by now. That is particularly problematic. There is still some fat on the soup and it can still be skimmed to get the budget in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u23	Madam Secretary of State, in the run-up to 1 May, several government parties talked about a so-called rich tax to support the budget. Madam Secretary of State, has the rich tax actually been on the table during the past budgetary control? Did you win as Secretary of State for Budget for a rich tax? As Secretary of State for the Budget, do you consider a rich tax to be desirable in order to finance new expenditure in the budget? Do you not fear that measures aimed at the so-called rich will end up with the middle class? How can we avoid, within the budgetary context, a further increase in the tax burden on the middle class, which is already very high in this country?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u24	A rich tax, in whatever form, was not mentioned during the budget conclave. The government agreement clearly states that no new taxes will be introduced except in the context of budgetary discussions. Proposals for new taxes can therefore only be discussed within the government in the context of the next budgetary round, i.e. when the budget of 2023 is drawn up. The government agreement also provides for the preparation of the comprehensive tax reform to modernise, simplify and make the tax system more equitable and neutral. I have been in favour of a thorough preparation for a well-considered tax reform, which should ultimately lead to a fair distribution of the tax burden, both for low incomes, the middle class and high incomes. For a precise state of play regarding the preparation of the comprehensive fiscal reform, I must refer you to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u25	Madam Secretary of State, I think that together we can see that on 3 May Parliament is a piece of army than last week and that there are no more roaring interviews in the newspapers. We have not yet seen, nor have we seen, any concrete text or proposal after the budgetary conclave, which was brought forward sharply on 1 May. It remains with words so far, perhaps fortunately, because we fear that such a rich tax will all too often reach the middle class. That is what we saw in France. The middle class is already heavily taxed in this country. I think that we are at the top of the world for every kind of tax, including capital taxes. That's a gloomy position to take in. We are looking at what is still happening in Parliament, but it is 3 May and no proposal for a rich tax has yet been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u26	Mr Vermeersch, your next question is a real Flemish question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u27	Madam President, it is a Flemish question, but it also has a Walloon aspect. After all, Wallonia also seems to be asking for money back. We are of course defending the Flemish interests, but, if you will allow me, I will also defend the Walloon interests in this matter. The Flemish Government demands that a miscalculation be corrected in the sixth state reform. The government of Flemish Minister of Budget Matthias Diependaele estimates that it is about 500 million euros. I would have expected Mr Loones to ask a question about this too. However, there is still a precise calculation to be made. That's what De Standaard wrote last week. According to your party colleague and Walloon Minister for the Budget, Adrien Dolimont, the various Länder together dispute an amount of EUR 489 million. For Wallonia alone, as we read in the press, this amounts to EUR 105 million. Firstly, Madam Secretary of State, can you confirm the amounts mentioned in your capacity as Secretary of State for the Budget? How much does each state demand back from the federal level? Secondly, the Diependaele cabinet also indicates that the federal government would recognize the miscalculation. Can you confirm that in your capacity as Secretary of State? Do you recognize the miscalculation? Thirdly, and finally, according to the Diependaele cabinet, it never came to an effective refund. Will the disputed and reclaimed amounts also be effectively repaid? If so, when and for what amount? Which Land will be reimbursed to?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u28	Madam President, Mr Vermeersch, at the moment I cannot confirm or deny the amounts. The information was requested from the services of the Minister of Finance responsible for the estimates of the payments to the Communities and the Regions under the Special Financing Act. However, the question was already addressed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Finance and Budget of 17 March 2022. At that conference, a number of large pending budgetary dossiers between the federal government and the Regions and the Communities were discussed as a third item on the agenda. In addition to the plastic contribution, the cost of the corona prevention and vaccination campaign and the RRF, the final point was also discussed the cash consequences for the transfer of RIZIV powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u29	Madam Secretary of State, we read in the press that you also had another inter-ministerial conference with the Länder last Friday. That's what Belga said, but you're shaking no. My question was not what the calculation of Minister Van Peteghem is, but how much the states demand back. Are the amounts in the press? Are they asking for these amounts effectively? Unfortunately, you have not been able to confirm this, so it is difficult for me to respond to it. We shall certainly follow up on the dossier. I understand that you will be back together on the issue in June. Can you tell me when the next inter-ministerial conference is scheduled so I can follow it up?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u30	I'm just checking it out. I'll let you know if it's gonna happen in June.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u31	Madam Secretary of State, last Friday there was an even more important item on the agenda of the Consultation Committee, namely the knocking off of the Belgian multiannual budget until 2025. That multiannual budget had to go to the European Commission at the end of April, which actually happened, because we got the documents on time. It is noteworthy that the Flemish Government has already indicated that it will take note of the final budgetary trajectory that goes to Europe. Can you confirm that as Secretary of State for the Budget? What arguments were put forward by the Flemish Government in the Consultation Committee to take only note and therefore not approve the budget path? Can you agree with the arguments put forward by the Flemish Government? Which states finally approved the budget path? For example, did Wallonia and Brussels approve it and did Flanders take note of it or is it not? Which states have only taken note of the budget path? Is it only Flanders, which has already been announced in the press, or are there other states that have only taken note of it? The Court of Auditors keeps reminding us that the European Commission has repeatedly raised the lack of budgetary coordination? As far as budgetary coordination is concerned, perhaps we should talk about fighting or fighting. For example, Flanders wants half a billion back. There is therefore no budgetary coordination; on the contrary, there is a serious discussion between the various Belgian authorities. What is the federal government's view of this budgetary coordination? How can this coordination be organised? After all, we all know that regional debts and deficits are becoming completely unsustainable, especially in Wallonia and Brussels. How can these states be responsive?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u32	Madam President, Mr Vermeersch, I will answer this question first, then I will return to the previous question. During the preparations for the stability programme, as in previous years, the indicative multiannual budgetary path up to 2025 was taken into account. During the preparatory work, an attempt was made to sum up, on the basis of the underlying routes of the Regions and the Communities, the route and underlying budget path for the respective Regions and Communities. This approach had to be abandoned because not all Regions and Communities had yet completed the work under their own budget control 2022 and multi-annual trajectory. No Land has approved the budget path, they have all taken note of it. I now come to the question of how this should be dealt with in future. I'm doing the best I can to get everyone around the table. I call for coordination of the various pathways, the dissemination and sharing of information, ambitions and objectives. However, you know that there is no hierarchy between the levels of competence. So I can only base myself on the information that is offered to me or on ambitions. If nothing is offered to me or if the work has not yet been completed, then I cannot remedy it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u33	Madam Secretary of State, I can only take note of your answer. Sounds like it should be very nice at the meetings of the conciliation committee on the budget. I note that some Länder have not yet completed their homework, while the stability programme has already been submitted to the European authorities. That raises the question of what is actually being submitted. It seems that some Länder will have to do their homework in the coming weeks or months, but a document is already being sent to Europe. Who actually takes responsibility for that? You, because you are the person who is handing that document over to Europe. I am therefore also asking questions about the credibility of the document that you have also delivered to Parliament. The situation of the budget and finances in this very difficult country is really dramatic. The five Flemish resolutions, adopted across party boundaries, make it very clear that we must divert as much as possible from budgetary flows to the Länder, or if not, that the Länder should be fully responsible for the budget and their own pennies. This is because the Länder are responding on the basis of their own income and expenditure. That is the only way to find a solution in this country. I also read your plans in the so-called Liberal Fire, in which you stated that if some states do not agree with what is good for communication to Europe, they should be given a binding budget path. We do not believe in that solution. We believe that each state should be responsible for its own revenue and expenditure. First of all, one has to put one's own foot in the air, then only then can there be a response. We clearly disagree on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u34	Madam Secretary of State, I asked you a question about this a while ago. There is a discussion between the federal government and the Regions about who should bear the European contribution related to non-recycled plastic packaging waste. You then defended the view that this is a regional competence, but in a joint letter the three Regions contradict this. They believe that the contribution, estimated at EUR 160 million, is entirely borne by the federal government. In reply to my previous question, you referred to 17 March. It was intended to break the stalemate at that time. There was then a meeting scheduled between you and the Regions. What is the outcome of this consultation? Are the federal government and the Regions sticking to their positions or has an agreement been reached? What are the consequences of not reaching an agreement? Does the contribution still fall under the responsibility of the federal government if no agreement is found? By when should the contribution be paid? What is the penalty if this country fails? Can this contribution be financed in different ways? Can you rule out a new federal tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u35	Mr Raskin, as I indicated in my answer to your question No. At the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Finance and Budget on 17 March 55026303C reviewed pending inter-federal dossiers with a significant budgetary impact. In this context, both the Federal Government and the Regions have explained their position on the plastic contribution. The Inter-Ministerial Conference took note of the views on the plastic contribution and the other inter-federal dossiers. No agreement was reached on the distribution of the budgetary impact of the plastic contribution. This agreement should be found within the framework of a balanced and fair overall agreement on all pending interfederal dossiers. Such an agreement will have to be discussed at the level of the Consultation Committee. The plastic contribution is pre-financed by the federal government, together with the other components of European own resources, pending the agreement. As always, the federal government will ensure that Belgian commitments and payments to the European Union are met in time and in full. No proposals are currently circulating within the federal government for a new tax to finance the plastic contribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u36	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. There is no agreement so far and you are evacuating it to a larger global agreement. So it's just a matter of waiting and seeing what that's gonna be. I have also noted that the Belgian State will prefinance payments to Europe in a timely and correct manner and that there are no plans for a new federal tax today. The word 'today' worries me a little because I know the difficult position you are in in the vivaldi club, but I will follow that up with colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u37	Madam Secretary of State, first of all, I would like to say a few words about your reply just now on the hierarchy of standards. Then I have a question about an opinion document by your party chairman, Mr Lachaert. Madam Secretary of State, I always find it strange to see when federal ministers and state secretarys give the impression that a federal hierarchy would solve the budget. I don't know if you've noticed, but you're not the best student in the class. I am actually very pleased that the federal culture is not being imposed on the Länder, because Flanders would be much more difficult. You say that you can only take note of the fact that others take note, but of course you can also do more. You could also set your own federal budget in order, so that you set a good example to the Länder. Then perhaps the federal government could also speak with a little more authority and authority. I am taking advantage of my speaking time, but I just wanted to say that. My question concerns an opinion document by your party chairman, Mr Lachaert, in Knack. I was wondering if Mr Lachaert had read your piece of opinion, which also appeared in Knack? After all, Mr Lachaert contradicts you in his opinion or at least gives the impression that he has not read what you have written correctly. In the debate on whether or not the government wins with rising energy prices, you say that the government wins. Mr Lachaert, on the other hand, sees it the other way round. I was wondering if you'd read each other's opinion papers, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u38	Madam President, Mr Loones, I assume that we are reading each other's opinions. I'm reading his. I'm assuming he's reading mine. We have already discussed the subject a number of times. My answer will be the same as any other time. There are additional revenues at micro level. That's right. However, at macro level, there is a wider range of budgetary impacts. In any case, a public debate on tax reductions is always possible. As a liberal politician, I would, of course, much rather discuss tax cuts than increases. However, in my capacity as Secretary of State for the Budget, it is not my role to speak here in committee about the exact way in which taxes should be reformed. However, the government has indeed included in its government agreement a reform of taxation, as I indicated earlier, in order to make it clearer, simpler and fairer. However, that is the responsibility of my colleague, Mr Van Peteghem. Questions about this reform are best addressed to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u39	We will certainly turn to Minister Van Peteghem. In the meantime, I assume that you will also turn to your party chairman to ensure that his communication is consistent with that of his Secretary of State for the Budget. I think that is an important point, because the budget debate is difficult enough without half-truths being said.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic769x.u40	I would also like to reply to Mr Vermeersch's question on the date of the next consultation. That would indeed be in June. However, the date has not yet been set. This one's still coming, of course. However, I cannot really approve the amount yet. There have been amounts in the press. Apparently, Minister for Budget Dolimont also came back to that. He did indeed talk about EUR 489 million for all Länder together. However, these are not amounts that come from us. So I can't confirm whether that's the right amount or not. From the moment the date is known, you can of course know it. I cannot, however, tell you at this stage. It will be followed even further.
