ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you have learned, Deputy Prime Minister Sophie Wilmès has announced that she is temporarily leaving her position as Minister of Foreign Affairs for personal reasons. I wanted to inform the House directly. I think we are all aware that this is very painful news for our colleague Sophie Wilmès, for her husband Christopher and for their children. With so many people in our country, I want to wish them great courage in a particularly painful period. Sophie told me that she and her family wanted to fight cancer together as a family. It is a choice that I very much hope this House unanimously respects. It is our duty, as colleagues in the government, to discharge it as much as possible. A provisional reorganisation of powers in the government will be notified to the Chamber via a KB. I myself will temporarily exercise my colleague's powers in the field of foreign affairs and European affairs. Minister Clarinval will do that for the powers of foreign trade. He will also replace Mrs Wilmès in the nuclear cabinet. Secretary of State Mathieu Michel will be responsible for the federal cultural institutions. Deputy Prime Minister Wilmès remains a formal member of the federal government. It has also explicitly stated that it does not wish to receive a wager during this short period. At such times, I think there is nothing more precious and essential than being able to spend time with the family. We all hope that Sophie and her family will find the strength to face this terrible ordeal. [[Applause from the European Democratic Group]] ) [[Applause]] [[)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u3	The words are in fact very little comfort in the face of the terrible announcement of a serious illness within a family. The House therefore also wishes Minister Wilmès, her husband and her children the strength and courage to go through this trial with determination, with great love and, above all, confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u4	Madam President, on behalf of my group, I would like to express our absolute understanding and admiration for the courageous step taken by Mrs Wilmès. We offer her all the support she deserves in this very difficult period.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u5	Mr Prime Minister, please do not misread my question. Your government is far from failing in terms of the budget record. You are incredibly strong in that regard. You score Europe-wide "better" than any other country. Should the opposition tell you that, you could wave it away, but the IMF, the National Bank, the Supreme Court of Finance have lit about all the red lights that can be cut. Before the recess, I asked you in committee how you looked at it and you replied that you were keeping an eye on the matter. That was not reassuring, because that was the minimum minimorum. Do you still keep an eye on evolution? In the meantime, have you done more than keep an eye on it? You are a little trapped in a government constellation that wants to give the impression that there is free. In view of the serious challenges of increased spending today, one should always be careful with that, but I think that quite a few of those expenses that need to be done outside your control are to be accounted for. However, one must also remember the old Flemish proverb one sows to the bag. At the moment and from a certain populism, you give the impression that you will be able to settle all kinds of accounts without the need for countermeasures. That is not a feature of a courageous policy. You can try to cover that up, but the reports to which I refer, from the IMF, from the National Bank, from the Supreme Finance Council, are steel and steel hard. You are now interning on the next generation, in addition to the tax increases you have already made. Hence my very simple question. Do you still keep an eye on the budgetary situation or have you in the meantime drawn up a policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u6	Prime Minister, according to the IMF, after Romania, Belgium has the largest deficit of all industrialised countries. Problem countries like France, Spain, Italy and even Greece are doing better than you and your government. We already knew that this lame Belgian country would be the slowest growth rate in all euro area countries this year, but the IMF is now also adjusting its growth prospects even further. The very weak growth rates presented by your government are very bad news for the budget, a budget which, with the help of the Liberals and of all the former government parties, has long shown deep red figures for corona. The National Bank recently warned against a Greek scenario. This is, of course, in stark contrast to the fact that you, as Prime Minister on the international stage, if you can stand there in the spotlight, are handing out a lot of money with your government, for development cooperation, or last but not least EUR 800 million for abroad. As Prime Minister of the second worst budget, you, on your own, guaranteed almost 10% of all global donations at the donor conference. An obvious question is therefore whether we should not use at least some of that money to help our own people and get our own accounts in order. According to the IMF, Belgium remains an absolute leader in public expenditure. One way to get things in order is to reform, but the government fails with 7 parties and 4 ideologies. The pensions, the fiscal reform, the reform of our energy bill, which is a second tax letter, the structural reform of the price at the pump, which is all being pushed forward and remains unresolved. When will your government cut into the absurd expenses of the far too fat government? When will you reform thoroughly?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the IMF projections cover a period of five years. The difficult thing is that economic projections that go so far in the future are an academic exercise. As I said earlier, we are following this closely. However, my priority is the budget for the years of the current government period and the impact it may have on it. Budgetary control was made in relation to a budget format drawn up at a time when conditions were very different from those prevailing today. Economic growth is more than 1% lower than estimated in the budget, due to the crisis in Ukraine. That was hard to predict. We have given EUR 1 billion additional corona support to support businesses and families. Would you have chosen not to do that and let them fall? We've taken measures to control the energy bill. Would you rather have said to these families that we would not take measures and abandon them? We've decided to spend an extra 450 million euros on Defense. I assume that if Theo Francken had said a few weeks ago that he thought that was a good decision, you would still think that was a good decision today. These are, of course, necessary expenditure. You come here to preach virginity, but many, including the opposition, said that these additional expenses were desirable. Mr Vermeersch, on this EUR 800 million, we have clearly said that this is a commission to cover additional costs of reception to help Ukrainian refugees in the right way. That was not foreseen during the budget presentation, unless you had a glass ball in the Kremlin with which you could have predicted this. A few weeks ago, your group spoke of full solidarity for our brothers and sisters in Ukraine. Are you still in favour of this ruling? Then you must say clearly that you support the Ukrainians. How would we do that financially? You support the fight against the Russian barbarians of Vladimir Putin and Russian soldiers. In what way would you support this struggle? Or is it still very difficult for you to translate your words into action and to distance yourself from a Russian regime that is committing the greatest wrongdoing? In words you distance yourself from that, in deeds and in financial choices it is apparently very difficult for you to make that distinction. It is quite right that the government has made choices. The government has chosen to help families and businesses at a particularly difficult time when we thought covid was over, which was not the case. The government has chosen to help families and companies at a time when the energy bills are exploding. Those are all things the government had no control over. You'll have one minute for a reply in a moment. Make it clear what choices you would have made and which people would not have helped you at a difficult time like today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u8	Mr Prime Minister, you had five minutes of your time, which you didn't use to explain that justified expenditure was incurred, which I didn't dispute. However, you have not spent a single second on the question of how to interpret the red lights, because do you have the courage to tell the next generation that they will have to pay the bill that caused your populist policy today? Do you have the courage to answer that? The last part of your most pathetic answer was to ask the opposition if it has any solutions. I have one: 1.7 million people are inactive today. When will something be done to activate the labour market, because in it your government will remain completely unemployed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u9	Prime Minister, there was a time when liberals attached their own credibility to the budget, but you lost that credibility when you stepped into this PS government with a Walloon way of budgeting. This country will become a Greece on the North Sea under your prime ministership. 100 million euros of corona material had to be destroyed. Many hundreds of millions of euros are distributed in Africa, the Middle East and abroad. Soon, money will probably have to be raised in the Sahel for Belgium. In handing out all that money, you said that Belgium does not abandon anyone. Your government is definitely abandoning our people. Our people are impoverished today, without your government taking strong measures. Those many hundreds of millions of euros of our taxpayers' money should not be thrown over or distributed somewhere abroad, but they should be returned to the hard-working Fleming. Our choice is very clear, first our people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u10	Madam President, Prime Minister, we are awaiting the final decision of the United Kingdom in an imminent manner. Unfortunately, it is almost certain that, within a few days, journalist Julian Assange will be subject to a decision to extradite him to the United States, where he faces up to 175 years in prison. Why? For revealing, in the name of public interest, a series of state secrets, including allegations of war crimes committed by the United States in Iraq. At a time when we rightly condemn the war crimes committed in Ukraine by the Russians, we must also keep our eyes open to the abuses that can be committed by democracies, including our allies. Prime Minister, this is not just a matter of freedom of expression. It is also a dossier on freedom of the press. Indeed, Mr. Julian Assange is a journalist, much more than a whistleblower. I cannot imagine that our country, in this climate of relative indifference which unfortunately reigns over this issue, remains silent. First of all, we must urgently call on the British Government to put an end to the extradition procedure, and we must raise with the United States Government our disapproval of the proceedings against Mr Assange. We must also lend our full support to Mr. Assange by contacting him to tell him that our country stands by him and is ready to welcome him and his family, if he so requests. Mr Prime Minister, my question is extremely simple: how does the Belgian government, at its level, support Julian Assange, his cause and the values he stands for, as well as all the whistleblowers from here and elsewhere who speak out to defend the general interest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u11	Mr. De Smet, the Wikileaks case and Mr. Assange's character have left no one indifferent. Let's be clear! Like you, this government is concerned about freedom of expression and freedom of the press - and you have made these two clear. We are fully committed to it. A free press is a guardian of a well-functioning democracy; we will continue to support this and do everything we can to ensure that the press can continue to play its role throughout the world. However, as much as we defend a free press, so much we defend the separation of powers. It is not for the Belgian Government to interfere in the judicial proceedings of a third State and certainly not to interfere in the decision of a court. We must trust the integrity and independence of the British judicial system, which is assessed in full transparency between different countries, as we often do. Like you, I believe that in a country like the United Kingdom we must respect a fair decision, a fair decision. These decisions must, of course, respect human rights. We also know that, if a decision were to be made at any given time, there would always be an opportunity for appeal and appeal. If extradition based on a decision taken in the United Kingdom were to take place, our country would be attentive to respect for all procedures and respect for the rights of one hundred per cent, such as Mr Assange.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u12	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I was hoping for a stronger conviction. I hear your argument on the separation of powers. But in Britain, the procedure shows us that the Executive has a say. It is a minister who will finally affix his signature on the extradition procedure. So, yes, we have, even politically, our say and I think that international support in these matters makes a difference. As far as whistleblowers are concerned, I would like to take this opportunity to say that our country must also set an example. Whatever Mr Assange's fate, we must be exemplary in protecting journalists and whistleblowers, their reputation and sometimes their lives. For the time being, however, this government has not had a very good record in this regard. I am thinking not only of the non-transposition of the European directive but also, of course, of the violent reprisals against two ODA whistleblowers whose warnings, by the way, have all proved true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u13	Madam President, Prime Minister, this Friday the workers will be on the street. Actions will be carried out in Liège, Antwerp, Charleroi and Brussels. Workers want to express their concern that they can no longer pay their bills and make ends meet, with one and sometimes two wages. This is already the case for many of them, but also for independents. We know that the covid crisis has exhausted the citizens. It is also known that rising energy prices are impoverishing them. In the face of these crises, the role of the State was emphasized and applauded by all. Your Government has indeed taken a great deal of positive action. To support household incomes, ecologists want measures to be taken to reduce energy consumption, but also to increase such incomes, which means automatic wage indexation and collective bargaining, as the 1996 law will soon be on the benches of Parliament. This law needs to be changed. As has already been said, wages must protect against poverty. We must also be creative by putting in place immediate measures that impact low wages. How about a tax credit targeted at them? That would be an adequate response. In any case, all responses to these crises must involve more solidarity and income. Prime Minister, what is your agenda? What proposals do you put on the table?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u14	Prime Minister, things are going well in our Belgian country. The economy is doing well and when I look at the news reports, I see that the Bel-20 companies made a profit of EUR 21 billion last year. 21 billion euros! There was already a small group who knew where to make it. The CEOs of these companies were immediately on the deal and imposed an average wage increase of 14% on themselves. The working class, on the other hand, got absolutely nothing. That's your government's fault. It has imposed the wage-blocking law and put the trade unions against the wall with its backs. That's why they're clearly saying tomorrow that it's enough. Have you been refueling recently, Mr. Prime Minister? 2 euros a litre! You may still be able to pay that with your wages, but the working class can't do that anymore and screams for justice. Clearly, the unions don't understand it anymore. They're meeting tomorrow in a common union front. They rightly have clear demands. They want to get rid of the wage-blocking law and negotiate it clearly. They no longer understand how companies can make usury profits and that they don't even have the freedom to negotiate wages. Mr Prime Minister, I have just one clear question for you: will you finally throw the wage freeze law in the garbage can?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u15	Prime Minister, today the prices are flying away. Gas, electricity, food, our citizens can't anymore. They're wondering how they're gonna close their end of the month. Tomorrow, they will find themselves again on the streets, alongside the unions, to demand a little more purchasing power. For us socialists, purchasing power is a top priority. And it is the government's duty to protect its fellow citizens, but also its economic fabric from this infernal spiral. It is not for the workers or the most fragile to pay for the broken pots. It must be acknowledged that this government has taken strong steps: the increase in the minimum pension, the increase in social benefits, the maintenance of automatic wage indexation. The PS also fought for a reduction in energy VAT. But we now realize that these measures are not enough. That is why my group has proposed measures for better control of energy prices by setting maximum margins for operators but also by fixing prices on foodstuffs, by giving the government the power to limit these prices by means of an observatory. My group is also calling for tax reform to make it more progressive. Prime Minister, what measures will the government take more structurally to maintain the purchasing power of our fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u16	Thank you for the questions. It is true that this sequence of crises is extremely painful. Painful for our citizens, painful for all the operators – especially the economic ones – of our country. I will be clear: this government fully shares all concerns about purchasing power, inflation and rising costs of living. In fact, the government had already, in its early days, taken a series of decisions that help those who have the most difficulty in coping with these price increases. I would point out, for example, that the welfare envelope, which is an increase beyond inflation, is an increase that we apply to 100% and that increases the purchasing power of pensioners. We are still talking about amounts that are around two billion euros a year. These are measures that we adopted at the beginning of the government; they are no longer being discussed, but the effects are clearly discernible today. I would also like to mention another existing element of the Belgian social model, which is generally not spoken of. Our country is one of the few in which that element works automatically. Mr Colebunders, if you say that the government, society, is not doing anything about the price increases, you are telling factual lies. Last year the central index was exceeded twice, this year there will be three, a total of five index overruns. In the area of wage mass, this means an increase of EUR 17 billion. That has to be paid, it doesn't just fall out of the sky. This 17 billion is paid by companies, some of which are indeed making profits, but also by companies that are struggling, as companies that do not make profits also have to pay the indexation. This government has also taken the necessary measures. When energy prices rose, we intervened with packages of more than EUR 3 billion in total, with which we carried out price reductions at the pump, among other things, through excise duties. Compared to the countries around us, we have done more. We see, for example, that Dutch people living in the border region come to refuel in our country, which shows that our country has done more than neighbouring countries. The indexation system also offers much better protection of purchasing power than in other countries. In total, it is an invoice of 25 billion euros, paid by the employers and the government in our country. So don't come in here and tell me there haven't been any raises. Don't tell me there's been zero margin. A total of EUR 25 billion is spent in addition. You wave that away, but that shows that you are intellectually completely unfair to reality. In reality, measures are being taken. The fact that you are throwing that away shows that your proposals are populist, because you are simply ignoring the automatic mechanisms in our country. Does that mean the government's gonna stick with that? No, absolutely not. As a government, we have made it very clear that we will see how further action is needed. Moreover, that is why we have asked the Governor of the National Bank, who will chair a panel of experts whose first meeting will be held shortly, to consider what additional measures we should take. Since, during the co-vid period, we listened to the experts and read the opinions on long-unforeseen circumstances, the present economic situation is complex and requires that we maintain the balance between purchasing power - which is a priority for this government - and competitiveness, to prevent it from slipping. This is the call that I would like to make: the Belgian social model has always succeeded when the employers' and trade unions' benches had come together and when they had understood that the challenges would not be solved by pulling on one side or the other. They must come together to find a balanced solution. That is what the government has done to every crisis and that is what it will do on its occasion. We can do this together with the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u17	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. I wanted to highlight two aspects. First, it is clear to ecologists that there can be no question of an index jump. There is no automatic indexing of wages with environmentalists in a government. Secondly, we want a society that offers jobs, where wealth is produced, but also a society in which we can speak of redistribution of wealth. I hear some calling for a gathering of all the actors, so that they can make efforts. Indeed, there is a need to reflect and restore a balance between the staggered increase in the wages of those struggling to make ends meet and the increase in the dividends and remuneration of listed companies. It is important that we can organize a democratic and taboo-free debate. We must be able to talk about citizens' incomes from the perspective of just redistribution and solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u18	Prime Minister, will you finally stop comparing an index increase with a wage increase? That's gotta stop at last, because that's just bullshit. Let me ask you something. When someone starts filling up, is that tanking going to be included in the index? That could be too intellectual a question for you. The answer is no, I tell you. I'll ask you another question. Will the CEOs, who have an average wage increase of 14%, also receive this index increase? Yeah, they're gonna get it, too. On top of that, however, they also receive a wage or salary increase of 14%. Do you think that's a normal situation while you're cutting the throat for most of the population? If you question my thinking, you will do the same for all the trade unions who return to the streets today, tomorrow and June. After all, they are in favour of the same demand on the streets.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u19	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. But I think people are tired, tired; they can't. They no longer see the end of this crisis, while some companies put their pockets on it. When I hear the FEB and the big boss question wage indexation, I find this really indecent in the current situation resulting from this crisis. Automatic wage indexation helps to protect the purchasing power of workers. I think today really needs more. We must dare to take measures to the height of the crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u20	Prime Minister, Minister, almost two months have passed since the war in Ukraine. For almost two months, neighborhoods are bombed and innocent victims are killed. Never before was the war so close, also by the social media, because videos full of hope and horror alternate. The question is whether war can still hit us and shock us. Unfortunately, the answer to that is yes, because the images from Boetsha abhor the world. Unfortunately, we have seen that the last few days new Boetsjas have been added. Every day we saw an image of a mass grave. Every day there are stories of executions. Every day, the question is where and when this stops. We are constantly being pushed back on the facts, because Russia is committing terrible war crimes in Ukraine. That becomes clear now that they're retreating. The question is, what will we find if they withdraw from Cherson? Who knows what we'll find in Marioepol in the future? For the record, these terrible war crimes must not go unpunished. That is why Belgium has in the past supported an international investigation by the International Criminal Court in Yugoslavia. That is why we will do it again today in Ukraine. Prime Minister, I believe we can do more, because Belgium has forensic experts that we can use. We can also provide financial support for the investigation of the International Criminal Court. Prime Minister, Minister, the people of Ukraine are digging up their neighbours today. They need to identify their friends using their clothes. If we want to punish the perpetrators, then we must assist them in this terrible task. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u21	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, every passing day new war crimes and new crimes against humanity are revealed in Ukraine, in Boutcha, in Borodyanka. We know Marioupol's agony. Yesterday, the mayor of Melitopol explained to us that a school had been moved to serve as a shield, because a military camp had been organized by the Russians in that city. Every day that passes, we don't know what to do. We're hesitant. The government does not make new decisions. However, in the face of these massacres, this barbarism, what the Russian army is doing in Ukraine, we know that every minute counts. So I ask you not to lose a minute. The decision that was supposed to be made yesterday should have been made yesterday, the day before yesterday or 15 days ago but not tomorrow or the day after tomorrow or perhaps never. You may consider going to Kiev. I can't imagine you getting there empty-handed. What I am asking you to do is to have a military aid which is up to the crimes committed there to finally stop this compressor roller, to finally stop the crimes that are committed. These are relevant weapons that are needed. They've been asking for them for a long time. We have to deliver them to the Ukrainians so that this barbarity stops. It's an insistent demand. In addition, crimes are actually committed. Some call them crimes of genocide. Others have shoulder creases. When one sees the nature of the crimes committed (systematic rapes, deportations, massacres) and the intentions behind them, when one sees that Mr Putin decorates the barbarians who committed these crimes and when Mr Medvedev tells what the denazification of Ukraine means, that is, the disappearance of that State as a State, we are probably there, perhaps in any case, in genocide crimes. We need to investigate him. I ask you not to have a shoulder lift in front of such a charge. That's the request I'm making today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u22	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, the Orthodox Easter period has almost arrived, but that seems to bring Putin little reflection. He is even bolder and three-star, and now especially in the east. Yesterday, together with a number of colleagues, I had the opportunity to meet a number of Ukrainian MEPs here in our house. Their message was heartbreaking and very clear. They want more military and more humanitarian aid. It's their damn right to defend themselves against aggression, child murder and rape, in short, against war crimes. We have a damn duty to assist them in this. They are on the front line in the European fight against a barbaric and inconspicuous dictator. Military aid must, of course, be considered according to the feasible possibilities for our country. In addition, more humanitarian aid is needed. Ukrainian MEPs had three clear requests: food, food, food. They say the sanctions work, but they can be even stricter. They ask that war criminals should not be allowed to go free and to investigate how we can bring them before the International Criminal Court. Will there at least be additional humanitarian aid? Shall we consider additional military aid? Will there be additional sanctions at European level? Will forensic expert be sent to investigate war crimes?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u23	When Ukraine wanted to become independent in 1994, it had to return its weapons from the European Union, from NATO, from the Western countries to Russia, including 1,800 nuclear warheads. If someone is disarmed, it's normal for that person to be helped when he's under attack. That happened for the first time in 2014. Crimea was annexed. Even a civil aviation aircraft, the MH17, was shot out of the sky. All we did was a pear boycott. We're now six years later. Ukraine is controlled and attacked by a Nazi, by a fascist regime that creates mass graves, rapes people and murders civilians. We stand by and look at it. The Western countries are too cowardly to set up a no-fly zone, but I do not want to have the debate on that right now. I can still understand the fear of some. We were supposed to deliver weapons. Belgium has delivered some helmets. We've delivered 500 machine guns. We also supplied anti-tank weapons. You have travelled around Europe and said that we would give 800 million. You have already apologized for that, which would have been misinterpreted. After coming home, it was 85 million. That's totally different. Today we discover that, according to Ukraine Support Tracker, we have already given a total of 20 million, including 19.7 million in military support and 230,000 euros in humanitarian aid. Can you explain that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u24	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, if I have asked for a last intervention, it is obviously not because I am not worried about the humanitarian situation for which, like my colleagues, I am waiting for strong signs from our country regarding additional assistance, but also about the prosecution that will be initiated tomorrow, following the grave violations of human rights by the Russian military. But I also wonder about the economic situation on our continent, which is greatly aggravated by the geopolitical situation in Ukraine. Indeed, if we refer to certain prognosises, we can reasonably expect difficulties in basic foodstuffs. Moreover, we can already see an increase of 15% in industrial raw materials, which will make economic activity on our continent difficult, with all the problems associated with it in terms of employment. We will also have to deal with wage inflation. All these aspects have been highlighted by the International Monetary Fund, which has already prognosised. But it would be nice to know, Prime Minister, how we are going to prepare to deal with the situation. For example, will the favourable borrowing rates of the European Central Bank be maintained? Do you already have any details to give us about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u25	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, three weeks ago we were all able to hear President Zelenski's speech live, and we could also hear his cry for help. I can only express once again, on behalf of our group, my horror at the horror that is taking place there, and I strongly condemn it once again. The brutality that we see every day is enormous, and affects us, every day. Since the beginning of the war, two months ago, there have been several requests for help and support addressed to the European Member States. Now there is the specific question of the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, a body that we are fortunate to have at present, and also of the Ukrainian government, to provide expertise to identify the current war crimes. Belgium could play a significant role in this, in conjunction with its European colleagues. My question is therefore specific, Minister. As everyone knows, we have the DVI team in the federal judicial police. This consists of forensic experts who can identify highly identifiable bodies in disaster areas and in hard-to-reach areas. They have already gained a lot of experience. They may identify different injuries in war crimes and then match them or check them against any other findings. In short, they can certainly play a role there. Last year they were active in Wallonia, together with the Missing Persons Cell, but they were also active in Kosovo and the like in the past. Prime Minister, Minister, is the question of the Ukrainian government being addressed in this connection? I ask this question because it is very important for our group that the impunity in this matter (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u26	Madam President, I will answer the question together with the Minister of Justice. The atrocities that we see every day seem to be coming to an end. Every day we hear news about new cities. Every day we see new war crimes and crimes against humanity taking place. The facts are there. The facts cannot be swept away. The fact that the actions have been committed by other people cannot be denied either. The responsibility for this cannot be denied either. The task now is to be able to properly document these facts. The Minister of Justice will respond to the support that our country has given to, for example, the International Criminal Court and also to what we intend to do, to document this properly and to ensure that it does not go unpunished. I'm going to arms deliveries. Mr Dallemagne and Mr Dedecker spoke about this. I would like to stress the facts. Mr Dedecker, you're talking about 500 machine guns. [[However, there were over 5,000.]] Everyone may be mistaken, but we often tend to put aside the effort we make and say that she is meaningless and not appreciated. In every interaction I had last week with our fellow Member States on the eastern border, they thanked our country for the fact that we were relatively early with the delivery of arms. We have not only provided protection, but also provided attack weapons. So we delivered over 5,000 machine guns, over 200 anti-tank weapons and protective equipment and fuel. The total amount of military supplies made is EUR 76.9 million. The figures quoted by the German research institute can only be dated. They are absolutely not a reflection of reality. We are many factors higher than the EUR 20 million they are putting forward. I'm not saying that here to knock on the chest. At a time like this, I don't think there's any country that can say it's done enough. At a time like this, I think everyone is looking at what is the most efficient way to give Ukrainians the means to protect themselves so that the atrocities can finally stop. There is indeed a view within the nuclear cabinet to make any additional deliveries. However, we must ensure that these are valid material which is usable and for which Ukrainians can, if necessary, receive the necessary training. We also need to look at how logistics can be put on the ground. In my view, the figure quoted for humanitarian aid is completely wrong. Minister Kitir and Foreign Affairs have invested a total of more than 13 million in humanitarian programmes, including more than 2.1 million specifically targeted on specific projects, which, for example, help Ukraine's neighbouring countries to better integrate the large number of Ukrainian refugees they host. We have sent out a press release to challenge the figures quoted in a particular newspaper based on that research office. In our view, these figures do not correspond at all to reality. Of course, they may just be dated. The economic impact in Europe and around the world is one of the consequences. At the end of the covid crisis, the economy was in the midst of a recovery, but this is a blow to the recovery. The National Bank has reduced the growth rate by about 1%, which is clearly bad news. In sanctions, we try to minimize these consequences. Sanctions must be taken together, lasting and proportionate. It must hurt on the other side but as little as possible on our side. Our country has proposed additional economic sanctions, such as the freezing of financial assets. We have also set up working groups to address value chain issues. In such a moment, we have to work together. European unity has helped us enormously. Belgium alone can do little but by working together, we can do much more to reduce the impact at home and to help our Ukrainian friends as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, every day horrible images and terrible testimonies come to us from Ukraine: a theatre that became the tomb of hundreds of hiding citizens, streets strewn with corpses of casual passers-by. It is increasingly clear that the Russian invasion is accompanied by horrific violence, war crimes and crimes against humanity. After Yugoslavia, we had thought and hoped that this would never happen again on our continent. Unfortunately, nothing less is true. Boetsja is the new Srebrenica of our time, Marioepol is the Guernica of this century. The horror that comes in is coming in hard on all of us. Abominable is human, but what the victims are asking for is justice. We can't look the other way. This can't go unpunished. That is why, Mr Dallemagne, directly after the invasion, our country and the European partners gave a direct mandate to the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court to open an investigation on the basis of article 14. The prosecutor went directly to Ukraine, as you know. The Chief Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, like the Ukrainian Attorney General, is asking for more people, more resources, more expertise. That is necessary, because Ukraine says that five thousand sites need to be explored at the moment. The questions asked are clear. The answers our government must give will also be clear. We will take four concrete actions. Mrs Reynaert, first of all, there was indeed a call for more resources to be made available to the International Criminal Court. Tomorrow we will provide a concrete answer to that question in the nuclear cabinet and the Council of Ministers. Secondly, our Federal Prosecutor's Office is actively involved in the Eurojust network on genocide. Investigations and the collection of evidence are coordinated within Eurojust. In particular, I brought together the Vendôme Group, seven Ministers of Justice and Commissioner Reynders, here in Brussels on 28 March, to give Eurojust a direct mandate to do so. Thirdly, the federal prosecutor has now put everything in place to launch an investigation if there is a concrete complaint or a report of war crimes or crimes against humanity in our country. Fourthly, Ukraine and the International Criminal Court requested that forensic experts be made available. Our country has a highly experienced international renowned team with a strong reputation, DVI or Disaster Victim Identification. They were involved, among other things, in the identification of the victims of the downed flight MH17, the identification of corpses in mass graves in Kosovo in the year 2000 and the identification of fellow citizens killed in the terrible floods last summer. DVI assistance is a delicate but crucial task. They are charged with identifying the exact cause of death and identifying persons, both ante and postmortem. This afternoon we met with the federal and local police and agreed to send people, provided that security can be guaranteed and that this is done on a voluntary basis. Mr Dallemagne, we spoke this Tuesday with our Dutch colleagues in the framework of the "Thalassa" consultation. Also know that our country chairs the European Network of ICD and that we could also cooperate with other European countries! The persecution and trial of war criminals is not an obvious issue, but the international community has learned a lot and done a lot over the past few decades. We have succeeded in prosecuting monsters such as Karadžić, Mladić and Milošević. Presidents such as Charles Taylor of Liberia and Omar al-Bashir of Sudan have also been unable to avoid their punishment. Let us therefore be determined and find, find and bring to justice the executioners of Boetsha and the monsters of Marioepol.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u28	Prime Minister, Minister, the villages in Ukraine that are digging up their inhabitants today have not opposed the Russian aggressor, they have surrendered. They have also shown no aggression towards the occupying forces, but nevertheless their inhabitants were slaughtered and their wives raped. We cannot tolerate that. That is why it is all the more painful that various parties in Parliament said at the start of the war that we should not resist. In their view, we were not allowed to say anything, to intervene in the conflict or to provide any support. It is very painful to see that. Let me be very clear, only resistance protects those who desire democracy and Western values.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u29	Prime Minister, you haven't announced anything new, you know that. Wind. Every minute counts. Yes, that is the point, it is here in Parliament and now that we have to make decisions. Every minute counts. I was counting on you to make a strong, clear announcement. To make sure that, indeed, this tragedy stops. To make the bloodbath stop. That will not be the case: we will continue to discuss. Finally, Prime Minister, we must live up to this tragedy that is taking place before our eyes! To be able to stop him in time, Prime Minister, that is what we are asked to do! It is our freedom and security that are at stake! In this regard, there are weapons, which the Ukrainians demand and which are in our hangars, which no longer serve. In particular, there are B-Hunter drones, which they have demanded, weapons which are in working order and which we no longer use. I ask you to deliver them to Ukraine so that they can observe the battlefield and better defend themselves. Mr. Minister of Justice, you have spoken the word "genocide". I'm asking for an investigation. I'm not saying there's genocide, I'm just asking that we don't close this door. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u30	Thank you for your both answers. I also heard yesterday from the Ukrainian Members of Parliament that they are very grateful for what Belgium is already doing, but it is clearly not enough. MEPs are literally and figuratively throwing themselves into battle. They're begging food packages. Men and women in Parliament are even fighting in the army. The help we give, it's working, but it's not enough. We must support them not only morally, but also humanitarianly and militaryly. I hope that a decision will be taken tomorrow, including with regard to the trial of war criminals. I heard yesterday that six countries are already providing bilateral aid. The Ukrainians defend our values. Let's not forget that. Let's give them that support.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u31	Colleagues, it's always dangerous to put the cart in front of the horse. To avoid more victims and more forensic research, one must first end the war. That still hasn't happened. Minister, I have learned from wars that a bad man with a gun can only be stopped by a good man with a gun. I'd like to hear you say that we've delivered more and done more. There's another meeting tomorrow. I hope you're not just delivering Houwitsers. Maybe I'm the only one, but for me, you can also send F-16s and F-35s, because I know which Nazi is currently besieging Ukraine. As far as humanitarian aid is concerned, our people are feeling sorry for themselves, and they are double-crossing to help and, for example, to take care of families. I am counting on the government to continue to provide the necessary humanitarian aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u32	Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, a word I hear in your answers that I share is "let us stay united!" Let us remain united on the strong economic sanctions that we call for in Russia so that they can also have their effects! Let us remain united on the aid that we can provide, whether humanitarian or military with military logistical assistance! Let us also stand united in the defence of our democratic values, in the defence of human rights, in the defence of the universal rights that we advocate and which make Europe proud! Let us remain united tomorrow again in relation to all the economic consequences that our country and also Europe will have to face! Here too, let us call for much more harmonized policies than we saw a few years ago! May this sad situation help us to integrate more and to have more coherent policies at European level! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u33	Thank you for your determination. The brutality is unseen. We really can't let that pass. There must be no impunity for the abomination. I am therefore pleased to hear that we will do everything in our power to share our expertise. We must prosecute and bring to justice those responsible for those war crimes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u34	Madam President, Minister, yesterday the press told us that in 2007, a sale of objects was carried out by the SPF Finances under the name of "African Lot" and, in this lot, there was a head, a statue that was bought for the modest sum of 200 euros, that is 240 euros with the costs. About five years ago, the buyer made an attempt to sell this head instead of London and the sales house blocked the process because it was found and also authenticated by the Nigerian authorities that it was a bronze head of Ife that had been stolen in 1987 during a rather violent burglary of a large museum in Nigeria. The buyer refuses to return the work estimated at a value of 5 million euros. In the meantime, negotiations have taken place and it appears that its financial claims are being reduced. Nevertheless, everything comes from this sale made by the FPS Finances at the request of the FPS Justice. Minister, this leads me to ask you the following questions. What is the process by which the SFP Justice decides to sell exhibits? Is there a cadastre of these exhibits? Is there a cadastre of the coins that the SFP Justice wishes to offer for sale? Are there any contacts between the parties to a proceeding in the context of exhibits? Aware that at the time Belgium had not yet ratified the UNESCO Convention on the Trafficking of Unlawful Works of Art (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u35	Colleagues, on the night of January 14, 1987, thieves seized this work of art by force in a museum in Nigeria. Thirty years later, in 2007, it appeared, after a seizure, at the Fin Shop in Brussels for a public sale. It was purchased there for the derisory sum of 240 euros whereas of course it should have been returned to its legitimate owner. It goes without saying that this is a regrettable case. On the question of how this could have happened at the time, it appears that no service so far has been able to give a conclusive answer. Meanwhile, the Ghent PJF opened an investigation. This case concerns facts that have occurred in the past. For me, the most important question now is this: are we now better equipped to avoid this kind of situation? The answer is clear: yes! Today we have a digital system that did not exist in time and through which all exhibits are monitored by the judiciary and the police. This system is called PacOs. It must also be possible for the finance to follow up. That's exactly what we're working on right now. But the problem of the theft of works of art is not limited to these unique cases. I know that, in recent times, worrying echoes have been heard concerning the strength of the "Arts and Antiquities" unit of the police. Mr Verlinden has been very clear on this point: the fight against the theft of works of art is included in the National Security Plan and the Minister wishes to make available the necessary staff for this purpose. In addition, other services such as customs and the Economy FPS continue to monitor the situation in this sector. I'll say another word about UNESCO. We are also working at international level, not only through UNESCO but also within Interpol and Europol.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased to see that you are taking up this issue with you and that with Minister Verlinden, you are going to do a real substantive job. In Belgium, we have a trade union of antique dealers. It is in their best interest that their profession be respected. I imagine you will also work with industry professionals to dispel this absolutely unfair image of our country as a hub of art trafficking.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u37	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, once again I am standing here for the umpteenth time. Once again, child labour has been established at PostNL. Once again, a packing center has been closed due to abuses. The question is how much such injustice still needs to be done and how much we will still have to make ourselves angry about it here. Honestly, as long as politics is stuck in slowness, looking away and myths, I fear it will take a long time. I'd like to take advantage of the moment today to disprove three myths. The first is that only more inspections will lead to solutions. Unfortunately, that's not true. The report in question has exposed child labour, but we have noticed that PostNL's stock market price has risen. That's because the shareholders are convinced that all the abuses just don't touch PostNL. Inspections are, of course, necessary and will protect children who happen to be found during inspections. However, strong legislation is needed to address such a business model. The second myth is that some people claim that these are mere incidents. They argue that the sector should not be blacked out and that it is only one company. However, they forget that depots have also been closed from GLS and from DPD. So when things don't come up, it doesn't seem to exist. Thirdly, joint and several liability would be the miracle solution. Colleagues, we are talking about people who get one euro per package, who earn five euro per hour and who are asking the police not to pee in a bottle when they are driving. Here we need strong employment protection and social security to solve this problem. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u38	Madam President, Madam Minister, history repeats itself, and in so doing, unfortunately, our debates too. Despite the ongoing procedures, despite the arrests of its leaders, PostNL persists and signs, and continues its practices of human exploitation, including children. It's unbearable! As you said, in a previous debate, these are 19th-century practices. This is already the fourth time since the beginning of the year that we have had to denounce them. There are solutions. On the one hand, the Labour Inspectorate is doing its job and detecting offences. On the other hand, serious regulation is needed in this sector. Strict and clear rules must be laid down and must be easily controllable. We must remove the precarious statutes. Undeclared work and, of course, child labour must be abolished. The employment contract must also be the general rule. We came to the end of the consultations. Now we have to move on to action. Minister, when will you come to Parliament to introduce a bill as the government has decided on principle? Do you think it is still useful to continue consultations on a sector that has lost its legitimacy? Minister, we are not waiting for an answer, we are waiting for solutions to put an end to this unacceptable practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u39	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, undeclared work, exploitation, fraud and child labour are daily expenses for PostNL and its subcontractors. Unfortunately, this is not about the scenario of a new Daens film, but about today's harsh reality. The fact that children under the age of 13 are employed at 5 euros doesn't even see these crooked entrepreneurs as a problem anymore. I quote: "I do not force children to work. They even like it and make talk about it." Even the term "world alienation" is lacking here. As a society, we owe it to ourselves to look beyond the indignation. These scandalous infringements are not new and have been around for a long time. We also know the reason, namely to make as much profit as possible. For e-commerce companies, this can only be done by delivering as many packages as possible at the lowest possible price. Apparently, the end justifies all means. This also means having to work with particularly low margins, creating a huge workload and no longer looking at an infringement more or less. We must dare to ask ourselves whether we still want to tolerate this model. CD&V says quite clearly no. Under no circumstances do we want to tolerate abuse, child labour and the exploitation of workers. It's not the first time I've asked the following questions. I've put them on the committee a few times. What do you and the government want to do about this? What steps have been taken to address this problem? How will you ensure that subcontractors and companies are no longer above the law and that they respect the rules? Will more thorough controls be ensured, including through cooperation in the field of social inspection, as Hilde Crevits said? How will you regulate e-commerce to ensure (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u40	Madam President, Madam Minister, as a human being, I am delighted to see you, but as a minister, you have unfortunately been flunked. After the debacle around the CEO of bpost and the sale of newspaper shops to a casino group, there are now persistent problems in the parcel sector. That is not a new problem, because we raised it here six months ago. In the meantime, you haven't done anything. You have written a preliminary draft law that goes against everything we stand for, because the free market economy is going on the shovel and free entrepreneurship is being restricted. On the banks of the Communist PVDA they are probably lyrical, you will soon hear that from Mrs Vindevoghel. In your own coalition, too, it is messing around, as we could read in the newspapers today. I quote: 'The impasse has already been found in the Inter-Kabinette Working Group. The Sutter only reaped negative reactions." Madam Secretary, you've been flunked. Fortunately, we do have ready-made answers. I have only one question for you today, how long has it taken you to get an invitation to join the PVDA?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u41	Madam Secretary, it's the third time I've been here about PostNL. We have been aware of PostNL's practices for six months. We know that there is fraud, social dumping, undeclared work and child labour. Children aged 13 work 9 hours a day for 5 euros. That is the reality in 2022. Mr Freilich, we must dare to ask ourselves why. Liberalisation and deregulation of the postal market have led to this situation. PostNL is a Dutch postal company. If we look at the situation at the post office today, we cannot take that as a good example. In our view, it is the whole deregulation that has led to this terrible situation. PostNL only works with drivers who are falsely self-employed. So the whole structure is wrong. No driver has a contract. PostNL squarely wipes its feet at their working conditions. PostNL lets these people work on 80 euro cents per mail package. However, if the package is not delivered, they get nothing. That's the situation for those people. Secondly, it is impossible for the trade unions to reach agreements there. I've been on the phone with a trade union secretary who says they've been discussing a collective agreement on night work for months. They won't even get that settled. This competition is therefore a race to the bottom and the bottom is reached, Mr Freilich. Madam Secretary, the PVDA wants the PostNL barn to be mucked out. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u42	Madam Minister, anyone who orders a package today must be able to assume that there will be no exploitation in delivery. What, however, are we seeing today? One disorder after another comes to light, up to and including allegations of child labour and trafficking in human beings. We must be honest, it is the business model, the profit model, which leads to those excesses. This business model works with subcontractors, often bogus self-employed, keeping the costs as low as possible and completely shifting the responsibility for working conditions and for the quality of work. Madam Minister, you are well aware that the sector is failing to regulate itself. The race to the bottom continues. However, as a competent minister, you have an important leverage, namely the Postal Act. That postal bill will allow you to regulate the sector. What you are proposing, Madam Secretary, is actually very simple. You want the large parcel companies, such as PostNL, to effectively employ parcel delivery companies themselves, so that these companies themselves are responsible for the conditions of employment. Your proposal receives a great deal of support, here in the hemisphere and also within the government. The Liberal Group is the only one who has some hesitation. Are we going to look away from the problems or will we at last regulate the package sector and make it fairer? Madam Secretary, you have recently conducted a survey in the sector. What's come out of that? When can we expect your bill in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u43	Dear Members of Parliament, Dieter is 13 years old and should actually play football on Wednesday afternoon instead of delivering packages, sometimes 9 hours a day, camionette in and out, for 5 euros an hour. Dieter himself says that that prepares him for a heavy job, which he will probably have to do for the rest of his life. Dieter lives and works in Flanders in 2022. When I hear stories like that, when I see images of children who have to do that kind of work after school hours or on weekends, it saddens me very much. I think you share that view. I hope that children can spend their childhood in a different way. If they are obliged to do that kind of thing because of poverty at home, it is poignant. Child labour anno 2022 in this form is an absolute disgrace and is, of course, totally illegal. The adults who are responsible for this are, if you ask me, not always the ones who take that child to work and who may live in poverty, but those who allow children to work in that model, purely for profit. If the facts that we have heard last Monday are confirmed, then child labour is at stake, and that is not only illegal, but a blame for the company in question and the street is negative for the whole sector and, in fact, for our society as a whole. A number of judicial investigations are already under way in the parcel sector. In view of the separation of powers, I will not, of course, comment on the basis of any facts, but it does mean that we urgently need to take political action. I want to take everything out of the closet to put an end to that kind of practice. Nothing is more important than protecting the Dieters of our country, the most vulnerable, our children. I am counting on the support of the whole spectrum, both politically and in the sector. Some might have preferred to see a guided minister standing here, Mr Freilich, looking the other way. It is not even my competence, but my colleague's, because it is about social legislation, working and wage conditions and working by minors. However, I do have a leverage, namely the Postal Act. It is not enough to say that everything is in order and that it is enough to check more and to act against these practices. I do not agree with the statement that my proposal to tighten up legislation would affect entrepreneurship. I am only in favour of the freedom of the entrepreneur who is at the expense of the well-being of the employees and even children. Furthermore, the provision of quality contracts and sound social protection, whether through subcontractors or not, will not interfere with this business model, but with the need to call on mature employees, which does not affect entrepreneurs or restrict the development of the sector. Anyone who believes that the only way to achieve growth in this sector is to exploit human resources and child labour should say so here; I am curious. I would like to emphasise very clearly that my draft postal law does not impose or restrict anything or anyone except the possibility of exploitation. The business model of e-commerce that requires practices such as those we identify today needs to change, and that is why my proposal is necessary. That's my point of view. I am working on an adaptation of the postal law with the aim of improving the working conditions of parcel delivery operators. This was decided by the whole government last October. That was decided by all coalition partners. The draft legislation was submitted for public consultation to collect concerns and suggestions. Some allude to the fact that this is not a good practice. We discussed the text in the Inter-Kabinette Working Group and asked for opinions. That is what we are going to do now, so it is not at an impasse, it does not fall silent or it does not get into any kind of trouble. The government has decided to amend the postal law; I would like to repeat that. The advice we have requested, for example, from the Social Information and Research Service and the National Labour Council is being analysed. It takes time. It takes time. After all, legislative work takes time. We want to work on the basis of the objective elements that emerge from the consultation. I would like to confirm that this is and remains a priority dossier for me. (...) (microphone is switched off)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u44	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I look forward to adjusting the postal bill. I do wonder, ladies and gentlemen, whether parents with peace of mind can order online a bucket and a shovel for this summer. Bol.com has already asked for text and explanation. Do they do that because there are minors working in the camionettes? Or because there are click systems to avoid inspections? Or because the drivers have to keep their eyes on their pee bottle more than on the road? No, Bol.com does this because the delivery times are at risk of slowing down. That is the market now, Mr Freilich, a market without any protection. We Socialists were always in favour of rights and protection. It's no different now. We're not gonna let anything else happen. These abuses must now be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u45	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. You have understood this, I believe, Parliament's message: "We must move forward!" As the government, moreover, has decided on principle. In Italian: "Advantage!" In Dutch: "Vooruit!"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u46	I think inaction rhymes with exploitation. I believe that it is our credibility, our political responsibility, all of us, and yours, of course, first and foremost, to bring regulatory solutions to this sector. We are waiting on a firm stand and with some impatience, I do not hide it, this bill, in order to be able to debate and support it. It's the end of words. We need action.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u47	Madam Secretary, it is clear to us. If the price for a free package is child labour, exploitation and fraud, then we fit in. It is up to you and your colleagues, including Mr Dermagne, to put an immediate stop to this. We are counting on a number of things for that. Firstly, we need to focus more on social inspection and on more checks, together with the colleagues from the regions, as Mrs Crevits asked yesterday. Secondly, there is chain liability. It already exists in construction. The main contractor is jointly responsible for the subcontractors and must ensure the correct application of the labour rules. Thirdly, e-commerce must be regularised. That's what we're counting on. We are counting on you and the entire government, including the other competent ministers, to limit these abuses, so that we do not have to stand here again next month with the same questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u48	Madam Secretary, I smell a perfume de crise. According to you, there is consensus and everyone agrees with it, but the colleague from Open Vld said in De Standaard that "De Sutter's draft law means a restriction on the freedom of enterprise." You said it wasn't just that. I quote: "Pakjesbedrijven must be responsible for their subcontractors. That principle also exists in construction." That's contrary to what you just said. However, those words of Open Vld are also my words. The N-VA has also submitted a solution to this problem, namely Bill 2475, to the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions. This bill will be discussed in a few weeks' time. Open Vld, take action, wake up that liberal fire and vote for our bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u49	Madam Minister, you have not answered the question whether you are going to do anything immediately to stop PostNL's practices. Now get this place stopped and pay the people. We need an arrangement now. I can make you a proposal. I told you before, DHL has a very good system. There 70% of the employees have a fixed contract, even a servant contract. That's where good profits are made. I therefore propose that we take immediate action and not wait another six months for the postal bill. Make sure you have a proper arrangement for the people who are in trouble right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u50	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answers. It is a good thing that you remain determined to tackle the abuses in the sector and that you do everything you can to do so within your competence. This contrasts with some parties. Mr Freilich referred to the freedom of enterprise to do nothing in the sector. Freedom of enterprise must never be an excuse to tolerate social abuses. I also hear some parties arguing for more control and more social inspection. Colleagues, it is too crazy for words, if we have a solution to a problem, let us tackle that problem at the root. Madam Secretary, that's what we have to do. I wish you every success and hope for broad support for your plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u51	Madam President, Secretary of State Mahdi, unless you want to end up in the Guinness Book of World Records, this month has been a very sad month. The number of asylum applications peaks again to record heights. There were 3,247 new asylum applications and asylum migrants in March 2022. This is an increase of as much as 42% in the number of asylum applications compared to the previous month of February. For those of you who may not know it right yet, I would say that the Ukrainian citizens who are now coming here massively, being the real war refugees, are not in that system. They have a separate system. They are not included in that huge increase. Mr. Secretary of State Mahdi, nevertheless, you are not doing anything to stop this massive influx. More than that, you are planning new asylum seekers' centres throughout this country and everywhere in Flanders. Yesterday I took action in Machelen, where you also set up a new asylum-seekers centre, in a municipality where 60% of the population is not from Belgium and has a non-Belgian origin and where less than one in five children are still growing up in a family where Dutch is the language of instruction. You believe that the alienation there is not enough and places a further 375 asylum migrants, illegal migrants, especially Afghans in the middle of Machelen, in that strange congregation. What should happen before you take action? The asylum applications are getting high. There's no room for real war refugees from Ukraine anymore. Nevertheless, you do nothing. There were 1,281 violent incidents in and around those asylum seekers' centres. Nevertheless, you do nothing. The protection rate has risen to an abominable 28%. Colleagues, that means that more than 70% of asylum migrants are not entitled to asylum at all. Those are disastrous figures. Mr Secretary of State, what should happen before you realise that you need to reduce the massive influx to this country and increase the outflow?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u52	Mr Van Langenhove, you are referring to the increasing number of asylum applications in our country and talking about world records. I think that with the support of Flemish Interest, the figures, especially last month, could have been much higher. You say that the Ukrainians are not included in the figures, but you are regularly present in the committee and you are aware that there were over 400 Ukrainians in last month's figures who initially applied for asylum in our country and whose procedure was suspended when automatic protection was not yet in place. Perhaps because of good relations with Russia some of your colleagues feel that we should look at the matter in a different way, but then perhaps we would have had many more Ukrainians fleeing the war. I am surprised to hear you say that there are many figures in those figures. As a member of the committee, you are aware that many of the people included in these figures come from Ukraine and receive automatic protection in a number of other European countries. If someone fleeing Ukraine has another country of origin, one must first examine whether that person is in need of protection or not. That is why the application for asylum is being dealt with, but perhaps you too believe that we should all give these people automatic protection. Well, you can say that. I like to learn. The views of the Flemish Interest are evolving in all areas, both in terms of protecting people and in terms of dealing with Russia or Ukraine. I notice that the party sometimes takes a few turns. Of course, that may be true, but in the meantime, we must take care that the right steps are taken if they need protection and apply for asylum. We are also doing everything we can to ensure that a different type of asylum and migration policy is put in place at European level as soon as possible, a policy with screening at the external borders, with better procedures and with compliance with international obligations by countries of origin. We're working on that, and you're certainly aware of that, but you obviously prefer to spread fake news.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u53	Mr Secretary of State, your statements are not only intellectually unfair, they are simply wrong. Even if we subtract the number of files from those who claim to come from Ukraine - we know that much is not Ukrainian - from the number of asylum applications, there are still 31.5% more asylum applications in March than in February. So what you are saying is wrong, the increase is not due to the Ukrainian influx into our country. If we establish record numbers in terms of influx, if record numbers of migrants do not appear to have a right to asylum, if there is no place for Ukrainian refugees in this country and if we record 1,281 violent incidents in and around the asylum centres, then the only conclusion, Mr Mahdi, is to stop illegal migration to our country, even if it is fraudulently masked as asylum migration, and now send all illegal migrants from within and outside our asylum centres back to their country of origin.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u54	Minister, travel costs are exploding, that is the reality for every Belgian citizen. At the same time, it is even more so for some people, and especially for those who work in the securities sector, since they have both small wages and particularly important travel. The accumulation of the two means that their wages are now bleak in the situation we are experiencing. This particularly difficult reality is even more so in rural areas, where displacement is greater. As you know, the competence of service titles has been regionalised in the context of the Sixth State Reform. Therefore, what was not my astonishment in hearing the Walloon Minister of Employment, Mrs Christie Morreale - whom you know well - position herself this week by referring responsibility to the federal level. It is up to him to find solutions to this reality of the workers of the securities services. Minister, there is a serious problem. First and foremost, I hope you will recognize it. A serious problem, first and foremost, for the workers concerned, but also - and not at all, as your Walloon colleague has said - for many employers in the service securities sector, who have difficulty maintaining the shop. This serious problem must be solved, and certainly not through a ping-pong between employment ministers, which I believe is totally unacceptable, pathetic and particularly disrespectful for the workers concerned. So, since your Walloon colleague is sending you back responsibility, what is your reaction to his statements? What are the urgent measures that it calls on us to put in place? What are the answers, above all, for the whole sector, and especially for the workers concerned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u55	Mrs Fonck, thank you for your questions on an important subject which I have already been able to address in committee the day before yesterday, since some of the questions have been addressed to me on this particular subject, and in particular on the negotiations of a new sectoral agreement within the service securities sector. So you're not mad at me, honourable Member, but I'm at risk of repeating myself today. As you mentioned, the main element of discord between the social partners in the sector is the reimbursement of transport costs. It was already a difficulty before the outbreak of the war in Ukraine, but it became even more topical because of the increase in energy prices and, in particular, fuel prices. Many workers have to use their own vehicles to get to the home of cheque users and are increasingly struggling to pay for these trips, given the high travel costs and low wages. At the federal level, we have a responsibility to ensure that social dialogue works well, which has not been the case in the last few weeks in the sector – the least we can say. Our role is to ensure, in particular, that the social mediator who depends on the federal and your servant is in regular contact and acts so that this negotiation can be concluded as soon as possible. I can tell you that the social mediator has regular contacts with both banks in order to allow these negotiations to resume and conclude as soon as possible. As you said, the matter is largely regionalized. Social dialogue remains at the federal level, either in general or in relation to this sector in particular. The federal government has taken a series of measures and measures in general to ensure that the cost of excise duties on gasoline and diesel is reduced, that the expected increase in SNCB's prices is not applied, and that in (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u56	Minister, thank you for your answers. Minister Morreale spoke the day before yesterday and on the specific points I asked you about, I did not hear anything in your answer. I know that there is a negotiation between the social partners, but the answer will obviously not be sufficient in the face of reality. I note that two ministers of employment – a federal and a Walloon – prefer to turn the ball, in part through the press, rather than stand together around a table to find the measures to be taken for each level of power. In the meantime, the workers concerned are experiencing particularly difficult times. Your responsibility is to avoid two things: the first is that we end up with workers who can no longer so much that they stop working, and the second is that service securities companies have to close down. We'll assess the situation, but I'll come back to you to put pressure on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u57	Minister, you know that I am also an entrepreneur as well as a Member of Parliament. Together with many other entrepreneurs, I now see many difficulties that we cannot solve by our own power. Inflation is sky-high, as is fuel prices and energy prices. We see the scarcity of goods, their difficult supply, and the prices that are very high. The people and the building materials are for us, traders, very expensive. My people are fighting the beers, not to do something better for the customers but just to save themselves and keep the economy going. After corona, this war is coming. It weighs heavily on the entrepreneurs, and especially on their employees. We must be aware of this. We cannot ignore that. The National Bank is aware of this, and has already adjusted its growth rates, downwards. As a government, we cannot really intervene in the economy. As a member of a liberal party, I also believe that we should allow the market to operate. After all, I believe that everyone must take care of themselves and that self-reliance must be strongly encouraged. But we must not ignore the fact that labour costs have increased by 10% over the last two years and will rise by 13% over the next two years. That means 20 billion extra labour costs. They place an enormous burden on the competitiveness of companies. There is also another problem. The companies want to be strong, but they don't find people. That's also very painful. I therefore come to my questions. The government cannot regulate everything, but let us do what we promised in our coalition agreement. Please make work of the flexibility of work, because we need it now, and perhaps not later. Minister, it is very important for our prosperity and for our economy. What will you do, as Minister of Economy, in general, in this delicate situation? What will you do, as Minister of Work? What is the situation with regard to social dialogue, and what is the situation with regard to cooperation with the regions in order to achieve real labour flexibility?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u58	Madam President, the war in Ukraine has important economic consequences for Belgium and the rest of the world. The IMF predicts that the growth of the world economy for 2022 will now be 3.6 % compared to 4.4 % in January. We are aware of the current economic difficulties caused by the war in Ukraine, in particular the problem of the very high inflation associated with the enormous increase in energy prices. In response, the government has already taken important purchasing power measures. However, high inflation remains a concern for citizens' purchasing power and the competitiveness of our exporting companies. That is why the government has asked the National Bank to keep it regularly informed of the social and economic consequences of the crisis. A high-level expert group was set up for this purpose. This group must carry out an analysis of the impact of the war in Ukraine on the Belgian economy. In parallel, a task force was set up at the FPS Economy to address the specific problems of the agri-food sector. Reducing prices is an important challenge to improve citizens' competitiveness and purchasing power. However, this must never be at the expense of the employee. It is impossible for me to question the automatic indexation of wages. In order to reduce prices, the Government has strengthened the Belgian Competition Authority. This will benefit both the competitiveness of businesses and the purchasing power of citizens. Other measures can also be taken to improve consumer mobility and thus reduce prices. This will promote competition and reduce prices if profit margins are excessive.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think it is very important that this is monitored, because this is a very delicate economic situation. We must prepare ourselves very well, because the companies are having a very difficult time. Not everyone, but still a lot. I am taking you to organise the flexibility of work more quickly, because we desperately need it. The economy is still running and we are trying to keep it running, and I hope that you, as Minister of Labour, will also keep an eye on foreign policy in this area. In their own country, the federal government must take responsibility for mobilising labour. Buying power goes hand in hand with competitiveness. We want to keep everyone self-reliant and resilient in our society, but that does not seem to be going to be easy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u60	This concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u61	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 1805: Koen Geens, Khalil Aouasti, Nathalie Gilson, Claire Hugon, Katja Gabriels, Ben Segers, Stefaan Van Hecke - 1806: Koen Geens, Khalil Aouasti, Nathalie Gilson, Claire Hugon, Katja Gabriels, Ben Segers, Stefaan Van Hecke. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two bills. I would suggest that a single discussion be devoted to these two legislative proposals. [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u62	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u63	Madam President, I would like to refer to the written report, which is very heavy and very well drafted, for which I would like to thank the services.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u64	Madam President, I would like to take the floor for this important legislative amendment, the reform that we are going to vote on today. These legislative proposals are the result of a long legislative process already launched during the Swedish Government in 2015, at the initiative of the then Minister of Justice, who is also the main proposer of this proposal today. We have been very thorough from the outset. An expert committee was appointed at the time and a public consultation was even carried out. After the start of the discussion in the committee the experts were invited and they were discussed extensively. Hearings were held, after which the experts were heard again to comment on the hearings. Amendments were then tabled. As you can hear, a thorough legislative investigation was carried out and a thorough discussion was held. The civil code has been in existence since 1804. This has been changed over and over again. A number of punctual changes were made, but it never came to a thorough reform. These punctual adjustments have led to a contract law that resembles a kind of common law, where the unwritten was also very important through case law and the doctrine of law. The reform was therefore necessary because it is not acceptable to adhere to the 1804 Code for nostalgic reasons alone. Such reforms have already been carried out in the Netherlands and France. This reform is important for lawyers, but also, of course, for ordinary citizens, for whom the law becomes much more accessible. Justice is very common in the news, but I think that most citizens come into contact with the justice system for civil law, in particular contract law. The hearing showed that this modernisation is supported by a large number of experts. I am not going to say that there are certain points where there is no room for improvement. We have also tabled amendments in committee which have not been stopped. However, we will retable them in committee and then in plenary in the discussion and discussion of a subsequent code of conduct. It is, of course, important that the experts also have a basis for these new codes of conduct, for implementation and interpretation in practice. In the ideal world, several reformed codes of conduct have already been adopted in the Justice Commission. In an ideal world, we could have dealt with this great reform at once. Of course, that's not so obvious. In future, therefore, we will carry out further reforms of other codes of conduct, such as the special agreements that will follow in the Committee on Justice. This is linked to the codes of conduct that are being voted on today. I would like to thank everyone for their good cooperation in the committee on these proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u65	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a brief statement on these texts which are not trivial. We are reviewing in depth the entire Civil Code inherited from Napoleon. It is a project of great scope and importance to society and to our daily lives. It will probably not generate as much attention to the general public as the reform of the Penal Code, for example, and such lengthy debates. It would surprise me if we could discuss this project for five hours. Nevertheless, these texts concern all of us. It is also a long-term project, as our colleague, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, has just pointed out. He started several years ago under the coordination of Professors Dirix and Wery, at the initiative of then Minister Geens. We have already adopted Book 8 on Evidence Law, Book 3 on Property Law, Part 2 on Couple Heritage Law and Book 4 on Estates, Donations and Wills. Today, the two aspects that are subject to our deliberation relate to the general principles contained in Book 1 and Book 5 on the law of obligations. The latter is present everywhere in our daily life, in practical life. When we make purchases, when we go to the doctor, when we sign a contract, the law of obligations applies. But as currently contained in Civil Code 2804, this no longer reflected the current state of law. There were significant discrepancies with the case law. Some parts of the matter, such as the contract conclusion process, are simply absent from the law at this time. The structure and legibility were also inadequate. With the exception of being very sophisticated specialists, this right had become difficult to handle or even risky. So it really needed to be modernized. What we're doing here is not a revolution. To a large extent, we have worked under constant law. But the reform, modernisation, simplification and integration of case law were more than necessary so that the lawyers of today and tomorrow, as well as the whole of society, had legible, understandable texts that reflected the state of practice, took charge of today's challenges and allowed for greater legal certainty. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this text enshrines concepts that will better protect the interests of the weak, but also the general interest, which was, of course, very important to us. In addition, the concept of public order is modernized. After mentioning these important issues, you will allow me to point out an aspect, no doubt, more anecdotal, but which has received a little attention and which pleases me. Indeed, we are going to rid the law of the obligations of the old patriarchal notion of "good father of family" since we will now have to behave as " prudent and diligent people". These texts are the result of an impressive work – essentially academic – for which we must thank the experts of the Commission for the Reform of the Law of Obligations, who have accomplished a remarkable and valuable task. We must also thank them for their ongoing support in this endeavour, including during committee meetings and discussions on texts and amendments, as they were present to inform us about the best choices to be made. They have not yet finished their work, since I see the passing of announcements of symposia that will be organized in the coming days, weeks or months, being dedicated to the presentation of the new texts, and in which these experts will obviously be invited. I would also like to congratulate Mr Geens, who, since his seat as a Member of Parliament, has been able to carry out the work he has undertaken as a minister. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be longer. We co-table this text, which we voted in committee with all the other colleagues. Of course, we will support him unreservedly at the time of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed reaching an important text. I will begin by thanking the energy and conviction of a man, Minister Geens and now my colleague on the benches, as well as the energy of those who have worked hard since 2015. I would like to quote them for the report. These are Prs Dirix, Wery, Stijns, Jafferali, Kohl, Samoy. I hope I don't forget it. For seven years, they have been working hard to land these Books 1 and 5 and I know that, for some, they may have already left for a round of carousel for the next books. I thank them for this and wish them courage. My colleague Geens tells me they're here. I didn't see them. I salute them. We can indeed be pleased with this extensive work, which ultimately aimed to modernize the Civil Code and primarily the law of obligations at first and, perhaps, in a few years' time, the law of special contracts. As my colleague said, our Code dates back to 1804 and no longer reflects the current state of law, since it is necessary to constantly refer to doctrine and jurisprudence in this field. It was therefore necessary to continue this work which began many years ago, long before I was on these benches, and which led to the adoption of Book 8, Book 3, Book 2, Partly, Book 4 and, on this day, I wish for my wishes, Book 1 and Book 5. As has been said, it is a codification mainly at constant law that enshrines the doctrine, the majority case law with the aim of promoting legal certainty, the accessibility of the law and offers the opportunity to bring together a number of rules that were applicable but that were scattered. The proposal therefore operates at the same time this modernisation and simplification. This proposal is reordered in some old titles that had become "illisible". It introduces provisions that were not written anywhere and yet applied everywhere. As general principles of law, I was thinking of representation, abuse of rights, waiver, to quote the best known. Some concepts and articles were outdated and were therefore redrafted or deleted. Gaps have been filled. For example, there was no provision for offer, acceptance, duties of information, conclusion of contracts between absent persons. That will now be the case. A legal basis is given to unjustified enrichment, to the performance of contracts in good faith, with the exception of non-performance for synallagmatic contracts. The judge may also, in some cases, more easily correct situations of contractual imbalance such as the theory of unforeseeability, the abuse of circumstances, etc. What is this simplification and accessibility? These are fundamental objectives. First of all, democratic, because it concerns us all. Law, despite its technicality and complexity, cannot be the reserved domain of a certain caste and some initiates. It must be readable and accessible to all. Secondly, from an economic point of view, because the clarity of the law makes it possible to facilitate the work of our economic fabric, our independents, our traders and our artisans, but also to make the conditions of establishment and investment in our territory legible. Finally, at the social level, as individuals, SMEs, TPEs and associations, they will now be able to have much easier access to the legislation applicable to them and to ensure greater legal certainty. It is not a Copernician revolution, but it is a great evolution. This is very good because it was precisely the demand of many legal practitioners to have a clear code without the whole substance of the law being broken down. This project achieves this difficult but necessary balance between the autonomy of the will and the role of the magistrate. It makes the text consistent. This is the outcome of a consistent, attentive, collaborative legislative process that has been conducted to improve the text. What is presented to you is not only the result of a broad public consultation, many external contributions, the hearing of experts, the opinion of the Council of State, etc. Amendments have been tabled to respond to this public consultation and to try to have a modernised and coherent civil law that is universally accepted. This was, for example, the thorny question of public order, its definition, as well as the sanction in case of transgression or the regularization of the contract in case of nullity - a subject that has brightened our work. The aim was to strike a balance between contractual freedom and the protection of the parties. Our group has been sensitive to all these issues. However, in the interests of legal certainty, it has been demonstrated several times, in particular by judgments of the Court of Cassation, that the penalty of nullity is not always the most justified or the most appropriate. Many examples have been given in this capacity during the hearings and have sufficiently demonstrated that, in practice, inflexibility is sometimes worse than anything and is capable of generating situations contrary to the objective of protection of the weaker party. However, in order to remove the doubt or controversy that an amendment to the provision might bring, the provision of article 2 as it stood was retained as it stood. Thus, we ensure that the law as applied today, with its jurisprudential interpretation, is preserved and remains unchanged. Other amendments have come to fill gaps and extend to those who are neither professional nor protected by the Code of Economic Law, certain protections in respect of, inter alia, unfair terms. Such a prohibition of unfair terms in the event of a manifest imbalance between the rights and obligations of the parties to the detriment of the consumer now has as general a scope as possible, because this prohibition is now provided for in the Civil Code and will apply where it does not apply in B2C contracts. I am thinking, for example, of the associations of co-owners which, to date, were not protected either by the Civil Code or by the Code of Economic Law. In short, a great job, many years, of patient and intelligent people, listening, and the concern for compromise, all in order to finally move forward, modernise, make readable and fulfil our objectives and imperatives of democracy, accessibility, legibility of the law and protection of all those who are considered weak in the future. With my group, we will subscribe and vote with great joy for Books 1 and 5 of the future Civil Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u67	Madam President, first of all I must express my regret that the Minister of Justice is not here. I know that the Minister's presence in a legislative proposal is not required, but this is not about the first best bill. This is a thorough reform with a great impact. Out of respect for the work that has been done, I would have greatly appreciated that Minister Van Quickenborne had been here. Today we are discussing an important reform that can and will have a major impact on the daily lives of citizens, businesses and society. This bill is not new. During the previous legislature, initiatives were also taken by the then Minister of Justice, Mr Geens, to recodify civil law. The drafting of this preliminary draft was then entrusted to the professors Dirix and Wéry. The preparation took place during the previous legislature. Mr Geens has retabled this as the main proposer of the two legislative proposals. Mr Geens, like the previous speaker, I would also like to express my thanks for the commitment and energy you have devoted to this. You have done so with a great deal of conviction. We have seen this in the various committee meetings. I appreciate that very much. Given the profound impact of both proposals, it was therefore particularly important to pay sufficient attention to them during the discussion in the Committee on Justice, and that has been done. We have been able to come to this final text in a very constructive way, which is widely supported. Ladies and gentlemen, it is particularly important that there was a thorough debate here with several experts in the field, and of course with the experts involved from the beginning, but also with other experts in the hearings. I think I can say that they were interesting, educational interventions, which led to several interesting and often exciting discussions. It may be said that these hearings have been very productive. Several written opinions were sought, which were taken into account. All this has undoubtedly led to the final text before us today. I would also like to thank the Legal Service of the Chamber, which made a number of interesting suggestions in preparation for the second reading. Most of them were taken into account, they were incorporated into the final text by amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not go into the concrete and full content of both proposals, for which we have had ample opportunity during the detailed discussion in committee. I'd just like to focus on a few things. Very important, and that may be said, is that this is not a revolution. That's a good thing. In recent years, Mr Geens, a lot of changes have been made in various areas of law. This is an evolution of law and adjustments to the existing reality as it has evolved within case law and legal doctrine. During the explanatory statement, you rightly stated that the core of the Civil Code is not affected here, because it was and is not necessary. The current Civil Code is, in a number of chapters, extremely outdated and no longer adapted to current case law. Many may not know, but some parts of the Civil Code have hardly been changed since 1804. This means, in concrete terms, that in practice the application of existing contract law by the case law no longer corresponds to the legal reality as laid down in the current Civil Code. In view of the current case law, modernisation was therefore essential. The present modernisation is therefore more than welcome. Compared to the current legal texts, what is before us will create more clarity. Moreover, the legal provisions are adapted to today's case law. I refer, for example, to the provisions relating to contract law, which had to be reformed. During the discussion in the Committee, Professor Wéry was right to point out that the gaps in the Civil Code have become increasingly flagrant. One of his theories was 'I quote -'. "While the legislator does regulate the terms of validity of the contract, he does not take into account the dynamic process of the contract. He does not mention important issues such as acceptance of offers, information obligations or the creation of contracts between absentees." You understand the need for modernisation. Ladies and gentlemen, a number of definitions are now being adapted to current case law. That too is a good decision. Fortunately, in the meantime, the case law has paid attention to some modernisation. For example, in the texts before us, a number of cases which may be regarded as achievements in the caselaw are now effectively included in the Civil Code. I repeat, this is very positive. I refer, for example, to the development of the concept of good faith and to the distinction between the commitment of resources and the commitment of results. It is also positive that attention should be paid to the recasting of the earlier provisions of the Civil Code under Title 3 Contracts or contractual obligations in general. The title could be addressed in order to achieve a clear distinction between the sources of commitments, such as legal acts, non-contractual liability and improper contracts, and the general regime of the commitment. There are a number of points where innovation has been achieved and it is not merely a codification of the case law or purely technical adjustments. For example, attention is paid to a new balance between the parties' will autonomy on the one hand and the role of the judge as guardian of the interests of the weak party and of the general interest on the other. This balance has now been found, which, on the one hand, strengthens will autonomy in a number of areas, but on the other hand, the courts can and may intervene in situations where contractual imbalances have grown. This can be important, especially if one of the parties is abused. What we have here today will protect the weakest party better. These are just a few examples that I would like to cite as an illustration of the great usefulness of the amendments. However, the texts before us go far beyond the examples mentioned. I would like to support the conclusions of the experts, and I quote: here is a modern contract law which is open to citizens, professionals and students, which is designed to protect the weakest party, which is aimed at the general interest and which is also aimed at imposing effective penalties in the event of contractual disputes. The Flemish Interest Group will therefore strongly support both proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the MR also welcomes these two bills which have been adopted in committee. They bring about the modernization of a part of the Civil Code, which is truly of great importance to the daily life of our citizens and businesses. At any time, we enter into contracts and obligations. The law of obligations certainly forms the basis of the legal links between the creditor and the debtor of an obligation. So, on a daily basis, we conclude contracts. It is essential that we have easy access to the rules applicable to the formation, performance or non-performance of the contract. It was therefore essential to codify the abundant jurisprudence that had developed since the advent of our Civil Code in 1804. I would like to thank our colleague Koen Geens, who has undertaken this work and helped us to carry it out. It is therefore primarily a question of codifying developments in our legal order through jurisprudence and doctrine. It was logical to want to bring together the additions of the first to fill the gaps in the Civil Code in areas such as the preparation of contracts between absent persons. Attention was paid to the autonomy of the parties' will, the role of the judge in combining the general interest with the interests of the weaker party. Instead of having to read the Civil Code and consult all the jurisprudence and doctrine, our approach has been to codify and go a little further than simply codifying the jurisprudence, with the aim of having a right of modern obligations, more accessible and comprehensible to everyone. This modernisation was also necessary in order to ensure the competitiveness on the international stage of our companies, which, after the entry into force of this text, will have, like our neighbouring countries which have already done this work, a safe and modern legal ground. This is an essential element in order for Belgian law to be chosen as the law applicable to contractual relations concluded with foreign companies by our Belgian companies. This puts Belgium on an equal footing with its neighbouring countries so that the freedom to undertake can be fully exercised. Here, too, I would like to thank the various professors of the Commission for the Reform of the Law of Obligations, who, since 2015, have been working to put this case law on paper, in a clear, precise and legible manner, and to fill the gaps in our Civil Code. If, in committee, the proposals were voted unanimously, it is certainly because the work was carried out very rigorously and seriously, but also because the professors who surrounded us took into account, to a large extent, the considerations relayed in the context of the public consultation and the hearings. The MR Group, unsurprisingly, will vote on both bills and look forward to their coming into force.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u69	Madam President, in a democracy it is essential to agree on what is essential. Contract law is one of the most essential elements of law. As boring as it seems, it's about how people relate to each other and how they treat each other. If we have been able to approve this bill in the Committee on Justice twice with unanimity and with applause from the jury, that proves that we know what it is still about in this democracy. Yes, we like to fight, although we never fight, we are polite in our disagreement about the less important things, but we agree on the important things, even by unanimity. You may be surprised, but if the second floor of the public gallery collapses (Mr None refers to the experts who are present) then the most intelligent piece of the legal faculties falls down. [[Applause]] There is only one branch in the law where every professor wants to end, namely contract law. This is similar to the stochastic mathematics in the mathematics faculty, similar to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in a government who wants to know where I want to end in ten years' time, so it is similar to the Committee on Justice and the Presidency of that committee, Mr Goffin and Mr Van Vaerenbergh, in Parliament. You are all welcome in that committee, the best of the committees, where we unanimously approve the essential things that guarantee your democracy. There was a time when one had to study Latin and even pass the middle jury before one could study law. That time is about thirty years behind us, forty even. The difficulty is that a lot of Latin is still spoken in law. As I said, contract law is the nec plus ultra of the law, even though it is boring. Today you will find a very long article on contract law in a quality newspaper. I wonder if some of you have read that this morning with their coffee rather than looking at certain parties that are at the moment at internal level. If you have read that article, you now know how important contract law is for your daily practice. That Latin was banned by this bill. You should no longer know what fraus omnia corrumpit, exception non adimpleti contractus, nemo auditor or in pari causalesat repetitio mean. From now on, all this is in French and Dutch in the law. In other words, we have kept great chastity, because even sensible students today believe that they no longer need to study Latin. Of course, that's not the most important thing. We have also cleaned up the historical antiquities. We used to be trained with the idea that a contract should not conflict with the morals. That made our imagination run wild: les bonnes mœurs, what could that be? We don't agree on what good morals are today. So that concept has been removed, and we are only talking about public order, but that concept has been filled in. We have finally made it clear that it is wider than just economic and moral public order. We have added social and ecological public order to this. So lawyers can be surprisingly modern, but they are always moderate, because that is a prerequisite for democracy to function. We have also clarified a number of concepts that have so far been only included in the course. I would like to introduce to you those Members who have really worn the text: Professors Dirix, Wéry, Stijns and Jafferali. They now have everything that is only in their course. Of course, that's fun, because it's not in the law book and a student who doesn't study their course can't pass the exam. The third accessory to breach of contract, for example, is now defined in the Code. That is, for example, when you recruit someone who has been kept by a non-compete clause and whether, when you recruit that person, you become an accessory to the breach of the contract of the person concerned. There's also politics in this bill, and that might surprise you. It is believed that this is for boring lawyers, and most of you, even if they have studied law, think that I am pleading for a lost cause, namely ending up in the Justice Committee. That is the last thing I would like as a Member of Parliament. I know you think all that, but there's politics in this. We protect the weaker party. There are a number of rules in our contract law that are clarified today to protect the weaker party. For example, there is a definition that makes clear when the general terms and conditions, which are usually on the reverse side of an invoice and are deemed to be accepted, are effectively part of the content of the contract. That is the protection of the weaker party, and that is only when it has or is deemed to have effectively knowledge of it, even if it may not in fact have. Then there are the rules of interpretation, how should we interpret a contract? For example, in the case of an accession contract, a contract in which one of the parties has not actually been able to negotiate, the weaker party will have the advantage if the contract is interpreted to his or her disadvantage. I'll get to the damages clause. If the contract is not fulfilled, compensation is due. When will those claims be valid? To what extent can the judge moderate or limit them? Here too, the weaker party is protected. Same for the unlawful terms. When can they be destroyed and under what conditions? In a contract, the most important thing is to respect will autonomy, to respect what the parties have wanted. It is not always so easy to know that, but we want to try in the right to do so as much as possible. I give three examples of cases where attempts have been made to achieve maximum respect for the will of the parties. First of all, the nullity. It is nice to go to court and say that this is contrary to, for example, this law or public order and so on. That mandatory right is a maximum attempt to give the judge the chance to regularise the contracts, so that nullity does not follow from his ruling. Secondly, a new concept, the temporary force majeure, is introduced. One may be temporarily in the inability to fulfil one's commitment. That does not apply definitively, because that results, of course, in the end of the contract, but temporarily, so that the contract must only be suspended. Thirdly, in general terms and not only in the case of hidden defects, the possibility of giving partial price reduction is created, rather than nullity or partial nullity. Ladies and gentlemen, if you think I am going much further, rest assured, I am almost done, at least with contract law. There are two more things I would like to say about this. My fellow Members in the gallery on the second floor have not only arranged the contract but also the pre-contract and the postal contract. Another Latin concept that we had to study when we were young was the culpa in contrahendo, which then coincided with the lack of will, the deceit, the error, the violence and so on. The culpa in contrahendo is pre-contractual liability. This draft law regulates the whole phase of the negotiation in detail. Another matter which is dealt with in detail and which you might be interested in is the refund after nullity. I have just mentioned a few Latin adagia, which I will not repeat because you have already understood them. However, the refund in the case of nullity is one of the most difficult problems. Imagine having built a house on an environmentally prohibited site and that it must be destroyed or returned because the contract is null and void. What are the rules that exist for that? You will find them in 15 articles. Contract law is still not regulation, it is still law. Right is above regulation. You know what I mean. It has become a bit more technical than in the Civil Code of 1804, but it is still very nicely arranged. One final point concerns post-contractual obligations. After all, you may still have commitments after the contract. For example, you may be held to confidentiality regarding the contract you have executed and in which certain matters were confidential. During a certain period of time, you may not communicate it to third parties or hang on to the big clock. The most important thing in this proposal is, of course, the imprevision. We all know what that means. That means everything could be done by tomorrow. Rest assured, that is not going to happen, Madam President, I do not have any information on this, but for the same reason, the government will fall tomorrow. This also applies to contracts. The imprevision means that a contract becomes impossible, either temporarily or permanently, because of the circumstances. How many contracts can be carried out temporarily or permanently by covid or by the inflation that arose afterwards, either because of the supply difficulties or because of the Ukrainian crisis? That improvisation doctrine which now existed, usually by reference to the Batavian or the Northern Dutch doctrine, has been laid down in the law and it has been ensured that contracts which by the circumstances cannot be carried out by the court can be adapted to the specific circumstances that exist at that time. This will sound like music to a number of suppliers and customers of products, at prices that have become scandalously high. Is this gonna start immediately? No, but the judge can be inspired by the coming law if he applies today the improvisation doctrine, which was based on the doctrine of law and the case law. Madam President, I will not finish without repeating my thanks to our experts, the best there are, because the right of commitment is the most difficult part of the law. I would also like to thank my colleagues from the majority and the opposition for their tremendous cooperation in this work of great patience. You may think that this passes comme une lettre à la poste, but that is not the case. This was the subject of extensive discussions. I am pleased to note that we have a Deputy Prime Minister who is clearly a lawyer. I thank him and all of you for your continued attention. I hope that we will see each other on several new books of the Civil Code, until you have all been on our Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u70	Madam President, taking the floor after a gifted speaker like Mr Geens is not a present at all, but I, like Mrs Jadin earlier, forgot to ask not to be the last person to speak on the subject. It's too bad, but so be it. I can only confirm that the Justice Commission is the best committee. However, I must say, Mr Geens, that I sometimes doubt it on days like yesterday. However, this is not for the report. My intervention on behalf of our group will be brief, but this does not mean that these proposals would not be important, on the contrary. All my fellow Members have pointed out to us the importance of this. To follow up on this, I would like to say that these drafts ensure that justice is modernised again. The terminology that dates at least from the last century is replaced by more contemporary vocabulary. In this way, both the legal practitioner and the citizen will find their way better in the basic principles of our civil law. However, as my fellow Members have said, it is not a question of modernisation or mere clarification of the concept framework. The new legal rules also incorporate fixed justice. It is about more than technical adjustments or mere codification. It is also about substantive innovations that Mr Geens has just explained. For example, the proposal on contract law seeks to create a new balance between the parties' will autonomy on the one hand and the role of the judge as guardian of the general interest of the weak parties on the other. The new Book 1 also has its merit. The provisions included are considered general, not only because they have a transversal effect, but also because they are not specifically linked to the other books of the Code. Since these provisions cannot be specifically tied to one of the previous books, they are merged into this book, confirming once again the common law nature of the civil code. There's been a lot of talk about this. I would like to join my colleagues in thanking our excellent colleague, Mr Geens. It's his legacy, although the choice of words is a bit unfortunate, because fortunately he's still among us. I'm actually talking about the legacy of his time as a minister, to be exact. You, together with the current Minister of Justice, have continued to support this proposal and other proposals on civil law. Thank you for that! As has been said, our group has always fought for a more modern justice system and for the use of clear language. That is what is happening in this proposal. I would also like to express a special thank you on behalf of our group and the cabinet for the experts who have written these texts. They have been able to convey this complex matter that not everyone is confronted with every day in an intelligible way. A big thank you is therefore in order. I would also like to thank the services of the Chamber and the Members who unanimously approved the proposals for good cooperation. I hope that this can continue to happen in the future. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are doing a great deal here today. Indeed, contract law is universally opposed and is about everything. It reflects the rules of how we deal with each other, as Professor Dierickx explained to us once again in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and as Mr Geens reminded us once again. These rules are one of the fundamental pillars of justice in our society. There were high expectations about the revision of the relevant section of the Civil Code by both academics, judges, lawyers and others, and those expectations were met by almost everyone. In itself, it's quite an achievement. The Vooruit Group is very pleased that the basic rules are being adapted to the 21st century, tailored to the citizen, to every Belgian and every resident, and that we have also managed to protect the weaker party better. After all, it is clear that the rules of the old Civil Code were the subject of a thorough review by the expert panel, which is now in the stands and which apparently wants to be there from start to finish, which is of course awesome. I would therefore like to thank the experts very much for not wanting to let go of the matter even now. All this is done under the leadership of then Minister and now very respected Member of Parliament, Mr Geens. We are all very grateful to them, Mr Geens and all the experts, for the thorough work they have done, to codify the current law and to get rid of a number of obsolete legal rules and concepts. For Vooruit two elements were especially important. Firstly, there had to be a thorough and contradictory debate on the texts in the Chamber with various experts, and that debate has been there. The hearings have allowed us to adapt the text to a very limited number of points and to adjust it where necessary. Secondly, contract law should be sufficiently forward-looking and clear to all those who need to make use of it, of course, first of all the citizens. That's what happened. Following a number of experts, Vooruit has advocated a more comprehensive definition of the concept of public order. For Vooruit, the definition of public order had to respond to reality and thus reflect the political choices of the legislator. The main objective of public policy rules is to protect the public interest. We are therefore very pleased that the definition of public order now includes the legal bases or basic rules for the protection of the environment and social policy. In this connection, we have also argued in favour of maintaining the message of Article 2 of the old Civil Code, namely that agreements should never prejudice the laws governing public order and good morals. With the sum of those two elements, the message for Vooruit is clear. The fundamental rules of environmental protection and social protection serve the general interest. There can be no deviation from that by contract. Finally, it was also crucial for Vooruit to protect individuals against so-called unlawful terms, terms that are unbalanced, and as it were forced on a contracting party. We are pleased that an article has now been inserted which has an additional effect compared to the existing specific regime in agreements between companies and consumers and agreements between companies. I would like to thank everyone for their good cooperation in committee, Mr Geens in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of these two texts, which are being put to the vote in this House today, is a revolution. Why? Because Books 1 and 5 of the Civil Code, dealing respectively with the general provisions and the law of obligations, which are now amended and dusted, had not been amended since 1804, or to a lesser extent. It was therefore essential to update these texts, as we have done for the other books of this Civil Code, those relating to persons, property or inheritance, in order to finally bring these aspects of our Civil Code into the twenty-first century. The Netherlands, France or Germany did it before us. The aim was to make our civil law clearer and more accessible, whether for citizens, civil servants, entrepreneurs, law students, but also for legal practitioners, in particular notaries, lawyers or magistrates. They may have to refer more to the judgments of the Court of Cassation than to the outdated and imprecise articles of the Civil Code, in order to properly prepare their conclusions or decisions. I remember that, during my legal studies, it was essential to know the case law relating to the articles of the Civil Code in order to understand its meaning and scope. One didn't go without the other. At the same time, we were taught the principles of legality, legal certainty or predictability of law. I was, therefore, already struck by the fact that one of the most important codes in our legislative arsenal did not respect these basic principles of law. The clarity provided by these two texts was therefore more than expected, particularly in the light of the many challenges facing our society today, which were necessarily non-existent in the Napoleonic era. First of all, I should like to pay tribute to the titanic work carried out by Mr Geens - since he was already carrying these texts under the previous legislature when he was then Minister of Justice - but also to the work carried out by the experts, who were then appointed by the Minister in the Civil Law Reform Committees: Mr Dirix, Mr Wery, Mrs Stijns, Mr Jafferali, Mr Kohl, their colleagues, but also the collaborators of the Minister of Justice. I also wanted to acknowledge the work done by civil society, associations of French-speaking and Dutch-speaking bar associations and the federation of notaries. It is thanks to their involvement with all of us that we have been able to reach a balanced text, which incorporates to a large extent their various comments and remarks, but also those of the Council of State. In substance, Book 1 containing general provisions enshrines for the first time in the law several essential foundations and concepts of our private law. This book therefore plays a structuring role and contributes to greater accessibility of the same Civil Code, and it is undoubtedly the greatest revolution that this first book brings. I am thinking in particular of the explicit inclusion of the autonomy of the will as a central element in private law, and the limits of which are further refined by integrating the protection of the environment and social order into the concept of public order. Book 5 on the law of obligations finally enshrines in the law certain dimensions of the process of conclusion of contracts, which have been abandoned so far, whereas they are essential for the parties to the contract, such as the concepts of offer or acceptance. This shows that the weak Contracting Party is now better protected. Finally, the old-fashioned, patriarchal, if not sexist, notion of a "good father of a family" is also removed. A notion of another time, since it was not inherited from Napoleonic law but from Roman law, and therefore, as Mr Geens from Latin rightly pointed out earlier. We were then talking about the bonus pater familias.. That is to say how much to dust this notion, in which single-parent families, in particular, but also and especially our contemporary society in general, did not find themselves at all. That is to say, to what extent should we finally refer to a prudent and reasonable person placed in the same circumstances, as we all learned during our legal studies. Not only are these new aspects codified, as well as the modernizations that have emanated from the jurisprudence, but we are also innovating. The law includes, for example, the impregnation or sanction of the risks of non-performance through the termination of the contract. As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons, it is with conviction that the Défi Group will support this much-anticipated modernization of our Civil Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u73	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u74	We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 1805. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1805/8) We begin by discussing the articles of the Bill No. 1805. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1805/8) The title has been amended by the Commission in "Proposal for a law on Book 1 of the Civil Code". The title was changed by the Committee to "Proposal for a Law amending Book 1... General provisions on the Civil Code." The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u75	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 1806. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1806/10) We begin by discussing the articles of the Bill No. 1806. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1806/10) The title has been amended by the commission in "Proposed law containing Book 5 "The obligations of the Civil Code". The title was changed by the Committee to "Proposal for a Law containing Book 5...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The bill has 65 articles. The bill has 65 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u76	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u77	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 10 February 2022, a call for candidates for the Dutch-speaking membership of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority was published in the Belgian Monitor of 23 February 2022. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 10 February 2022, a call for candidates for the mandate of Dutch-speaking member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 23 February 2022. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Ms. Magali Feys, lawyer; - M. Sheryar Malik, IT Security and business architect chez Colruyt; - Mr. Tom Ruysschaert, administrative assistant to the commune of Harelbeke; - Mr Bert van Buitenen, Director Dasprive asbl; - M. Bavo Van den Heuvel, managing partner chez Cranium; - Mr Eddy Van der Stock, Managing Director 'Vlaamse ICT Organisatie vzw'; - Mrs. Griet Verhenneman, data protection officer, University Hospital Leuven. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - mevrouw Magali Feys, advocate; - de heer Sheryar Malik, IT Security and business architect bij Colruyt; - Mr Tom Ruysschaert, administrative assistant at the municipality of Harelbeke; - Mr Bert van Buitenen, Director Dasprive vzw; - Mr Bavo Van den Heuvel, managing partner at Cranium; - Mr Eddy Van der Stock, Managing Director of Flemish ICT Organisation vzw; - Mrs. Griet Verhenneman, data protection officer, University Hospital Leuven. All candidates enjoy civil and political rights. All candidates have civil and political rights. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 April 2022, I propose that you forward the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups. The Justice Committee will proceed to the hearing of the candidates. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 April 2022, I propose to transfer the curriculum vitæ from the candidates to the political groups. The candidates will be heard by the Justice Committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u78	By e-mail dated March 29, 2022, Mr. Hughes Brulin withdrew his candidacy for the terms of effective and alternate Francophone members of the P Committee. By e-mail of 29 March 2022, Mr Hughes Brulin withdrew his candidacy for the mandates of French-speaking effective and alternate member of the P Committee. As a result, the number of candidates for second alternate French-speaking members is insufficient. As a result, there are insufficient candidates for the mandates of French-speaking second deputy. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 April 2022, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Moniteur a new call for candidates for the first and second French alternate members of the P Committee. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 April 2022, I propose to publish a new call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandates of French-speaking second alternate member of the P Committee. No objection? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u79	By letter of 23 March 2022 Mr Mario Van Essche and Ms Sylvie Lausberg, chairpersons of the Committee for the Evaluation of the Voluntary Discontinuation of Pregnancy, ask to initiate the procedure for the renewal of the terms of office of the members of the Evaluation Committee. By letter dated 23 March 2022, Mr Mario Van Essche and Ms Sylvie Lausberg, Chairs of the Evaluation Committee on Pregnancy, asked that the procedure for renewing the mandates of the members of the Evaluation Committee be initiated. The term of office of the current members was purchased on November 4, 2022. The term of office of current members shall expire on 4 November 2022. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 April 2022, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Moniteur a call for candidates for the terms of office of a member of the Committee for the Evaluation of the Voluntary Termination of Pregnancy. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 April 2022, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandates of member of the Evaluation Committee on Pregnancy. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u80	By letter of 21 March 2022, Mr. Michel Glorieux submitted his candidacy for the appointment of an effective member (physician) of the Central Prison Supervision Board (CCSP). By letter dated 21 March 2022, Mr Michel Glorieux submitted his candidacy for the mandate of an effective French-speaking member (doctor) of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Service (CTRG). According to the call for candidates, published in the Belgian Monitor on 9 February 2022, applications were to be submitted within 30 days of the publication of the call, at the latest by 11 March 2022. In accordance with the call for candidates published in the Belgian Official Journal of 9 February 2022, applications had to be submitted no later than 30 days after the publication of the call, i.e. no later than 11 March 2022. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 April 2022, I propose that you declare Mr Michel Glorieux's candidacy inadmissible. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 April 2022, I propose that Mr Michel Glorieux's candidacy be declared inadmissible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u81	The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the introduction of the bill to promote the integration of persons with temporary protection, No. 2637/1. The Government requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law on the promotion of the integration of beneficiaries of the temporary protection status, No. 2637/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to Mrs Fonck, who asked me the question, that this text is available. It has just been distributed and should normally appear in your mailboxes. The signature was obtained, as expected. Minister, you have the floor to elaborate on the request for an emergency.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill in question, for which the government is seeking an urgent review procedure, aims at granting a legal framework under Belgian law to public social action centres in view of the special temporary protection status recognised by the Council of the European Union for people fleeing the war in Ukraine. The Government's will is to be able to see this text processed and adopted as soon as possible so that the country's public social action centres have a solid legal basis for dealing with the demands of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u83	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I propose that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u84	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (art. 75, n° 5, Rgt) If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. (art. 75, nr. 5, Rgt) No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u85	Madam President, Mr Pivin has stated that he is ill, and Mr D'Haese will take this into account in his voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u86	Madam President, I would like to point out to you that today I will have the pleasure of pairing with Mr Tim Vandenput.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u87	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u88	Yes 116 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u89	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u90	Yes 119 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u91	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u92	Yes [[80]] Yes No. [[11]] No Abstentions 42 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u93	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u94	Yes 93 Yes No. [[20]] No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 133 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u95	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u96	Yes 112 Yes No. [[20]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 133 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u97	Vote on Amendment No 14 by Kathleen Depoorter cs to insert an article 42/1(n).(2526/8) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Kathleen Depoorter cs to insert an Article 42/1(n).(2526/8) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u98	Yes [[47]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u99	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u100	Yes 93 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 41 Abstensions Total 134 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u101	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u102	Yes 124 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u103	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u104	Yes 121 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip175x.u105	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, April 28, 2022 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 28 April 2022 at 2.15 p.m.
