ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u1	Madam Minister, some of the questions date from almost five months ago. Meanwhile, there has been an action by the public sector. I have also listened to the concerns of the officials. They too have played an important role in the covid crisis, just think of the temporary unemployment issues, but there is much more. Those people have made a huge effort. So our officials deserve all the support they can get. However, they have not received a wage premium for 20 years, despite all the price increases. That was also apparent from the story of a guard I just got off the phone with. It is important that these people are appreciated. Another story is the lack of material. In prisons, for example, there is no means of decent work. It's often about essential things: toilets are broken, cameras aren't working, and that's still in prison... I also heard many complaints about a shortage of staff. For example, on average 60 days of leave must be taken from the guards. The workload is therefore enormous and there is insufficient consultation with the syndicates. I thought that was a priority for you, too. What did you think of the trade union actions you took a while back? In the meantime, you have launched a number of proposals. How much budget is foreseen for this? Will more resources be allocated to operating costs? The trade unions had asked for a tax package of 300 million euros. Do you have that amount in mind? What package do you provide? In what way will you appreciate the officials more in our society?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u2	I am sorry that there are so few colleagues here, but I am doing my best, Madam Minister. A few weeks ago, we heard that you reached a new sectoral agreement with the civil servants and with the trade unions. The deal provides for a raise of about 3 to 7 percent, on top of the index, which has been adjusted several times. In addition, this preliminary agreement also includes faster recruitment, actions on well-being and sustainability, a better feedback culture and a war on talent for bottleneck professions. How do you account for this wage premium, on top of the recent index jumps and at a time when inflation is sky high? Do you consider the benefits for civil servants and the signal you give to the private sector? Is the private sector supposed to follow? Will they feel obligated? That's a little hard. Did you consult with the Secretary of State for the Budget prior to the agreement, because the money has to come from somewhere? Will the award of meal cheques be accompanied by the closure of company restaurants? What evolution do you see in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u3	I will explain systematically a number of elements relating to the sectoral preliminary agreement for staff of the federal administrative public office that we were able to conclude with the trade unions and on which you are asking similar questions but from different concerns. I shall refer first to the trade union actions, then to the content of the agreement, then to the relationship with other savings agreements and finally to the next steps. The sectoral agreement at the Ministry of Defence and the trade-union negotiations on wage increases in the integrated police are not the subject of the debate here, but they did take place before the sectoral agreement we concluded for federal officials. The two agreements for the defence and police forces have also enabled the staff of the federal administrative public office to highlight their wage demands with a number of actions. I have therefore shown understanding and I will explain to you why, Mrs Goethals. Although all kinds of promises have been made in the past, no social agreement has been reached in federal public office for more than ten years. It is also 20 years since the wage was actually increased. You are talking about indexation, but that is compensation for loss of purchasing power, which is mainly in the higher betting scales. A real real wage increase dates back to that sector 20 years ago. Mrs Vindevoghel, you say that we have not negotiated enough. We have negotiated for over a year and at some point even once a week. I don't know how many negotiations are going on like this. So we have been together with the trade unions for a very long time and in detail. I was also regularly present at those meetings, while my cabinet staff took part almost every Wednesday morning. So it is not correct that there would have been too few contacts. The atmosphere was always constructive. We have shown understanding from the beginning and there was also respect from a syndical point of view for the efforts we wanted to make. I was just talking about 10 and 20 years from now, so you understand that there was also an appreciation on the trade union side for the fact that we entered into the conversation. I am therefore very pleased that we have been able to reach a preliminary agreement which the trade unions have also been able to support. Indeed, it is less than EUR 300 million, and I will explain in a moment what that amount will be spent on. You understand that negotiation is giving and taking, trying to come up with a package that is acceptable to both sides, a package that I will present to the government. I will, of course, also explain that last step. As you know, it concerns 65,000 federal officials. I assume that as a government we are an employer in a competitive labour market, in which we too are watching the war on talent strike. We too must ensure that we can attract and retain the right people in the government. On the other hand, there is a loss of purchasing power in all sectors, as well as in the private sector as in the public sector. I'm not competent for the private sector, as you know. If we were to implement the preliminary agreement, it would not be the first years, but it would be at cruising speed over EUR 180 million a year. That's less than the 300 million people asked for before. However, I am convinced that we have enough room with EUR 180 million to meet the commitments made. Mrs Vindevoghel, you also referred to the fact that the government agreement made an agreement to save 150 million per year on public administration. This effort continues and amounts to EUR 600 million per year. I would like to put that in perspective, because you will refer to EUR 180 million a year which we would like to give back, that is correct. I do not dispute the savings from the coalition agreement, I am the one who has to do this, as I happen to be competent for this domain. Of course, this means that we are in a long cycle of savings in terms of staff credit and operation, which has indeed caused problems on the ground. I can see Mrs Goethals thinking that we should think about efficiency gains. One can reorganise in other ways. I think the truth is always somewhere in the middle and that it's a one-and-one story. Of course, the government must organise its work as efficiently as possible, but a lemon cannot be squeezed out: at some point it has been squeezed out. What's in the proposal now? Two things. I attach as much importance to the non-pecuinary, non-pecuinary part as to the monetary part. You have already referred to the non-monetary aspect, Mrs Goethals. I really want to say something about that. Three parts can be distinguished in the financial sector. A rise of 2%, phased, starting at the lowest levels, which suffer the most purchasing power loss because the index does not compensate enough for the loss of purchasing power. If you compare that with the private sector in terms of remuneration, they are up to 20% below the remuneration for a similar job in the private sector, mainly in the total wage package, not in the basic salary. We want to do something about that. We want to do something about that. So there is a rise of 2%, the first in 20 years, as I said. You say that indexation does make a lot of difference, but of course it also exists in the private sector, and over the past 20 years, wages for comparable jobs in the private sector have increased on average by 12%, regardless of the index, which is also playing there. The compensation of 12% of the public sector deficit, by 2%, does not therefore seem to me to be an unreasonable question on behalf of the syndicated organisations. In addition, we will also give meal cheques. I am absolutely not in favour of meal cheques; I am honest with you. These payment systems escape tax and parafiscal contributions, so I don't think it's a good idea. However, the private sector receives meal cheques and in the public sector, the police and the Defense Department receive them as of November 2022. So I understand the federal officials want them, too. I will be very happy if we can one day abolish that system, but at the moment it is justified to award meal cheques to federal officials. As far as purchasing power is concerned, meal cheques again benefit the lowest betting. The people with the lowest incomes thus make the greatest profit proportionally. Our proposal is not redistributing; we are not taking anything from anyone; we are focusing on the C and D grades, the officials with the lowest betting. If indeed meal cheques are issued, we will examine the impact on the company's restaurants, so that we can adjust. One can do that in different ways. Mrs Goethals says that business restaurants should be abolished, but we can also raise prices in business restaurants and open them to more groups than just the officials themselves. In some corporate restaurants, that has already happened. It is therefore not necessary to abolish them. There are ways of resolving this in a fair way, without introducing meal cheques being the closure of business restaurants. People also work there, who otherwise have to be taken care of in a different way. It could open up business restaurants to the public and apply normal prices. That would be an option. I am not saying that we have already made that decision; it is certainly a possible way of adjusting it. As far as the end-of-year allowance is concerned, we will propose a full thirteenth month for the lowest levels in particular and an increase of EUR 500 for the higher levels. So it's been cut off. This again means a little more for the lower degrees, so that the loss of purchasing power, which is greatest for those degrees despite the index, can be compensated a little more. By the way, I am simply implementing what a former government had already committed itself to in the most recent sectoral agreement, which was never implemented. A full thirteenth month has also been established in many private sectors. I indicated that I wouldn't just talk about the pecuniaire. We have also negotiated and worked with the syndicates on an agreement on efforts on competence development, better feedback culture, sustainability, well-being and faster recruitment and have been able to agree on packages acceptable to all, which is certainly a good thing. The federal government also wants to make efforts to make bottleneck professions more attractive. Think of IT professionals through training courses, and doctors. We also want to focus on diversity and inclusion. The discussions we had on this subject with the trade unions were very fruitful. Why am I defending the preliminary agreement? Indeed, it is not yet an agreement, because it must first be approved by the government. I am defending it because, as I have already said, it will increase the purchasing power of civil servants, especially in the low betting scales. These include the guards, reception staff and logistics staff. It is also those who held society right during the covid crisis, as Mrs Vindevoghel rightly pointed out. That group certainly has a purchasing power effect. We also want to make working for the government more attractive, by slightly valorising the work of the federal government, which will make it easier to fill vacancies with the private sector in the light of the lack of talent and ultimately improve services. The agreement, which cannot be underestimated as a signal to civil servants, recognises and appreciates their commitment in particular, all the more so with regard to pay delays in relation to the private sector. That also puts the government in the spotlight as an employer. After all, we also want to remain competitive in the labour market. In this respect, we must be able to offer federal officials a good and competitive wage package. Where are we now? The preliminary agreement will be discussed in the government. Of course, the Secretary of State for the Budget, the Minister for Finance and, in fact, all the members of the government in the current budget discussions will have to take the decision. That's not unique. There is also a social agreement for the police, and this has yet to be ratified by the government. Let me remind you of the government's commitment. Allow me to remind you of the government's commitment. In budgetary control, which is behind us, we have formally committed ourselves to providing the necessary resources for this social agreement by 2023. That's what we'll be negotiating in the government. If all goes well, it will be possible to enter into force on 1 January 2023. Do I have any guarantees for that amount of 180 million? That's the perimeter. There's a preliminary agreement. That must be included in the budget debate. I do not need to draw your attention to the fact that the times are difficult and that the budget is under pressure from all kinds of external crises. But if, like last year, we again invoke the argument of the corona crisis and more recently in the budgetary control of the war in Ukraine, then we leave the officials concerned in the cold again, while they have not been getting a raise for 20 years. It is always claimed that wages have already risen by 10%. But indexing must not be defined as a wage increase, a wage increase which must be a real wage premium for the purpose of valorising the job. Over the last 20 years, private sector wages have increased by 12%, all in summary and on average. We shall therefore be defending that 2%. Finally, when we invest in the government, we all reap the benefits. I really want to draw attention to that once again, because it is often thought differently. Public personnel gain, citizens gain, businesses gain and society as a whole. The service provided by a well-functioning government is essential for the prosperity of our country. A strong government benefits us. The great public debt is independent of the resources we allocate to our federal government; I do not need to explain to you what unfortunately drives the government's seizure in our complicated country. We have a real interest in taking good care of our government staff and bringing the greatest talents to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u4	Madam Minister, it is thanks to the fight of the policemen, who have been able to secure a substantial wage increase, that it is now also up to the officials. In fact, they are entitled to this, all the more in view of the fact that their wages have not been increased in 20 years. Indeed, indexation is not the same as a wage increase, let that be clear to the colleagues of the N-VA. For 20 years they have not received a wage increase, while thousands of civil servants are working every day for our society. We have to take care of them. Twenty years of savings in the public sector really must be undone. There must be much more investment in the civil servants, because they take care of all of us. And they're bringing in too. That's what I'd like to say. Good officials at the FPS Finance and the FPS Justice bring society up. Enough resources for those groups is a return for all of us. We must therefore invest in our officials. We must ensure good wages and working conditions. Madam Secretary, yesterday the pension reform was still in the news. I would like to take this opportunity to urge that soldiers and SNCB staff should no longer work, because these are difficult jobs, with very flexible hours. I hope that the pension reform will not address the acquired rights of officials.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u5	I have never said that an index adjustment is the same as a wage increase, Mrs Vindevoghel, so you should not put those words in my mouth, in order to prove my point that there will be a wage premium after indexation. Madam Secretary, I understand that you are trying to get out of the impasse and admit something for that, and I have every respect for that. I sometimes find it difficult to compare public service with the private sector, but sometimes forgets it. It is not just about wages but also about the number of holiday days, which are much lower in the private sector. Pensions are also much lower, with the exception of the banking and insurance sectors. So let's not compare apples with pears. I'm glad you don't think meal cheques are a good solution. Meal vouchers were once created for workers who could not eat at work. It has sometimes been pulled from the hair who receives which meal cheques. Business restaurants should not be closed but evaluated. Maybe opening those restaurants to others isn't a bad idea. My main concern is that the government's current spending is causing tomorrow's debt. For every decision that's being made now, our kids will have to take the fall. Unfortunately, we notice that this often results in tax increases. I'm afraid of the long-term cost. We're gonna have to think about everything. Everyone is entitled to a good wage, there is no discussion about it, but everything has to be calculated in the long term. If everyone stops working in 50 years, the bag won't be filled and we won't be able to get anything out of it. So everyone will have to work longer. Work will also have to be made more attractive, but in the long term. We must not confine ourselves to a legislative policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u6	Dear Madam Secretary,
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u7	Mrs Goethals, your questions also partly refer to the previous debate we had. Thank you for your question on the continuity of services during covid and the key tasks debate, which you are opening. Through the recent review of the KB on the designation of management and staff functions, I stressed the importance of the core tasks of the FPS and the PPS when they draw up their strategic plans. It should also include transversal objectives, such as the development of a future proof HR workforce. Moreover, these transversal objectives have recently been approved by the Council of Ministers. In other words, the study of current and future key tasks needs is ongoing through the preparation of these strategic plans. So we're really working on that. We've asked all the FODs and PODs to make that exercise. Since continuity of service during covid has not been compromised, we can assume that current needs have been met. Whether this will be the case in the future will have to be investigated. I cannot confirm that the FPS currently have sufficient resources to continue to perform all commands properly. As I said, federal government organisations have had to save money for years. So they had to be very creative to catch that. Of course, digitisation has been one of the ways to work more efficiently and cost-effectively. This allowed more tasks to be completed in a simpler and faster way. That process is, of course, continuing. Digitisation, however, also means investing, in people and resources. I would also like to highlight administrative simplification. You know that on 28 January 2022 the Secretary of State for Administrative Simplification approved a federal action plan in the Council of Ministers. From my powers, I am also involved in that plan. We all contribute to it, each in his own way. You also asked a question about service exemptions during covid. This was mainly about administrations with their own staff and, above all, about logistical and technical functions. That might be a little out of date right now...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u8	I did have a question about that, but if you answer it now, it is also perfect. No problem. Take them with you in your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u9	These were mainly C and D levels, and they have used the service exemptions, for example because a federal building was left empty because widespread telework had been introduced. The post-covid workload measurement is a responsibility of the administrations. If, after more detailed analysis, it appears that structuralally insufficient workload is identified, the staff concerned can be used in a flexible manner elsewhere with support measures, such as training and guidance. That makes sense to me, too. I consider the employability of all these talents and the solidarity between the various administrations to be very important. In order to further promote mobility in itself, in accordance with one of the key points of my policy paper, the legal levers need to be examined. One of the first steps in this was the Royal Decree of 16 December 2021 on various measures relating to selection, mobility, language certification and financial career in the federal public administrative office. With regard to external mobility, we are also examining the legal possibilities. Under our authority, there will also be an evaluation of the Talent on the move project, which is actually studying and implementing mobility. At this moment there are already about 45 people reoriented from me that there may be many more, but well, each beginning is modest........................................................................................................................................................................................................ What we learned from that project, we are going to use to map the competences of that group and to frame professional reorientation pathways. We are also working on the capacity of the career centre and on a framework to anchor reorientation. We really want to bet on that. I would like to say one more word about the savings. I mentioned it a moment ago, but you also asked a question about it. The government has proposed a dynamic fiscal policy from the outset, with federal services making their own share of the firm effort, as well as a variable effort of EUR 150 million per year, which will be EUR 600 million at the end of the legislative term, which is a major effort. In my opinion, questions for further savings are not raised in this context, as we do not want to compromise the continuity of services. Of course, there can be exercises for my part where possible reductions are mapped out. Within the overall envelope, I am absolutely in favour of cutting down unnecessary issues, so that perhaps we can focus on issues that create new needs. You know that we also perform spending reviews for this. I think that is a very good thing, because it is a kind of evaluation, a basis for the budgetary discussions when it comes to spending within the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u10	Madam Minister, I am extremely pleased that you are taking the core task debate seriously and really taking it on board, also cross-cuttingly. Efficiency does not necessarily mean savings. Those are two different exercises. I asked the same question to the Prime Minister, who replied to me that this was a very complex and difficult exercise, which he did not know would succeed. I was a little surprised at his answer. That is why I am extremely pleased that you are taking this debate to heart and following it well. The N-VA will follow this and see where we come from.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u11	My question is also a little dated, partly because I could not be present in committee the last time. Of course, the problems are not over yet. We're still at war in Ukraine. We all hoped it would be done sooner, but it isn't. In order to take care of the flow of refugees as well as possible, you wanted to explore, among other things, how federal officials could respond to this, in order to help solve the crisis. You also announced that it would be examined whether they would be entitled to a number of days of duty exemption if they chose to receive refugees. I suppose you've already investigated it. What are the results of that investigation? Are there any people who have made effective use of this? You have already said that mainly people at levels C and D have used that system. Does it apply to all civil servants, including the federal ones? COVID-19 has taught us that a lot of buildings are empty. These buildings could be set up as reception facilities. Has that been investigated? Will further steps be taken, if necessary? We have noticed that there is no need for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u12	Mr President, Mrs Goethals, the previous question referred to service exemptions at Corona, which is a completely different framework. We have examined it and we have not done it in the end. That is the short answer, but let me explain. Looking into something doesn't mean that people already have the intention of doing it. I want to be honest with you about that. I announced that, I thought it might be a good idea, but in the end it turned out that maybe it wasn't a good idea. Yes, we have looked at all the possibilities to provide acute shelter for the war refugees. I remain convinced that the government has the task of helping where it can. After all, this is a terrible war. It had only begun when you submitted the question and when we made that proposal, but in the meantime we are many months ahead and it remains equally terrible. We have decided not to take any further steps for the time being with regard to the granting of exemption to federal officials for the reception of war refugees. Of course, we are following this very closely. We have been able to do a number of things, which fit within existing frameworks. For example, we offer acute support to unaccompanied minors placed in the family of federal staff. Those staff will then have the opportunity to take foster care leave. That is an existing system and it seemed logical to us to offer it. Officials who are able to take care of families may also use their ordinary leave arrangements, leave, recovery leave, etc., and may take unpaid leave for compelling reasons. We have made that possible, of course. We also have a system which is based on solidarity and which we have addressed, for example in the case of the floods last year, namely the special federal forces. I assume that term is familiar to you. There people can sign up to work at Fedasil or the Foreign Office. We can allow that. In this way we want to keep the workload manageable and on the other hand we also guarantee access to assistance for Ukrainians arriving in our country. I also asked the administrations with top public procurement experts to help Fedasil's Public Procurement Service to ensure that the necessary materials could be purchased quickly. We have therefore provided assistance on a number of other points. That is a good thing. Finally, you asked a question about the vacant government buildings for the shelter of war refugees. Moreover, this issue has recently become more topical in the context of the general reception crisis we are dealing with. However, I cannot say much about this, as it falls within the competence of Mr Michel. He is competent for the Government of the Buildings. I take your valuable suggestion with me in consultation with Mr Michel.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u13	I can only thank you for your honest answer. It is not, indeed, because something is being investigated, that it must also be carried out. I really wanted to suggest that we talk to Mr Michel about the government buildings. You take the words out of my mouth.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u14	Mr. President, I apologize. I also had to be present in another committee for a vote. Thank you for your kindness. Minister, the increased risk of a cyber attack since the beginning of the Russian-Ukrainian armed conflict has prompted our experts and the government to announce defensive measures and preventive advice to protect our computer systems. At the same time, while the Prime Minister's office has indicated that all services are in a state of high alert, the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB) has recently indicated that a cyber attack against our country cannot be ruled out in the current context and advises on enhanced measures to deal with the threat. Experts in this area therefore advise on strengthening cybersecurity, including through the recognition of phishing, the use of strong passwords and two-step verification, and highlight the application of patches and the timely updating of systems. They also recommend that companies and organizations develop, update and test a contingency plan on a regular basis to address the dangers of a cyber incident. Training and awareness-raising for members of the public service therefore appear to be essential. Minister, in this area, has a definition of structural and comprehensive measures taken for our CPS, for departmental firms or for public enterprises? If so, what are the details? What is the result of the identification of preventive cyber defence capabilities and measures within our CPS and vis-à-vis the public service of the Prime Minister's office?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u15	Mr Senesael, thank you for your questions about the cybersecurity of our public services. My answer concerns your first question on the structural and comprehensive measures we have taken. You know that the second question does not fall within my jurisdiction, which is why it was forwarded to the Prime Minister, who is responsible for the matter. I will begin by addressing some of the general measures that we have taken, and then I will go back to a number of initiatives that we are currently working on. In accordance with the European Directive, Belgium has decided to establish a national cybersecurity certification authority, the National Cybersecurity Certification Authority (NCCA). It coordinates, in consultation with the competent authorities and the National Crisis Centre, the expertise required for the certification of cybersecurity of products, services and processes in our country, and in particular those used by our public institutions. This is in addition to the Guide to Information Security, which was developed by SPF BOSA for all federal public organizations. Federal public services (FPS) are kept informed of potential threats through an early warning system set up by the Belgian Cybersecurity Centre (CCB). The CWB, which has established the early warning system, also publishes a quarterly threat report and alerts. To date, federal public institutions have followed the CWB's recommendations, which seems to me quite logical. End users are regularly sensitized to cyber threats and phishing threats. Since the beginning of the crisis in Ukraine, the various competent departments within the federal organisations have also been called upon to exercise greater vigilance. We are also working within my firm on a number of concrete initiatives to increase the cybersecurity of our public institutions. I'll mention three of them. Firstly, under the French Presidency of the Council, the Council and the European Parliament reached agreement on the revision of the Directive, as well as on the security of networks and information systems. Within the framework of SRI 2 (NIS 2), central public services will be included in the scope. That is why I have organized a workshop for the presidents of federal public institutions to raise awareness of the importance of adequate network and information system security, as well as the future implementation of the NIS 2 Directive. Secondly, within the framework of the Belgian Recovery and Transition Plan, I plan to be part of a project - Telecom to the next level, for which we received funds - €500,000 for the development of an anti-DDoS measure - Distributed Denial of Service, a well-known cyber-attack technique - through European cooperation in order to better protect public services from DDoS attacks. Indeed, in this type of cyberattack, many computers simultaneously send internet traffic to a target – but without having access to secure data – but it blocks everything. The abundance of traffic causes the target to collapse and makes it inaccessible to legitimate users. Thirdly, as part of the Stop Phishing project, I will invest EUR 9 million in systems that enable operators to detect and combat fraud. A first project in this framework aims to significantly reduce the number of fraudulent text messages.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u16	Minister, thank you very much for your clear and detailed response, as well as for the interesting initiatives that were taken and mentioned in your response. This contributes to coherent monitoring, which has a growing impact on our new technologies. The importance you attach to awareness-raising is also to be stressed, in order to better protect the public services to which we are very attached and, finally, to detect the part of this fraud and better combat it. I can only thank you for the work done and the work that remains to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u17	I recently learned in the media that you want to employ more people with disabilities in the government by recruiting them with an accelerated application procedure. Of course, it is no surprise that you are working on initiatives to increase the employment opportunities of people with disabilities in the government. We have discussed this on several occasions in this committee, and you have already indicated that you are going to deal with this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u18	Mrs Lanjri, thank you for your question on the initiatives we are taking to recruit people with disabilities from the federal government. You are absolutely right, if you ask in your question that the current situation is inadequate. I am particularly dissatisfied that, despite the ambitions we expressed at the beginning of the policy period to see the percentage of people with disabilities in the federal government go up, on the contrary, that percentage is falling. Thank you for bringing this to the attention of the House, we absolutely need to do better. As indicated, the Scientific Committee will review the tests within Selor. The composition of this committee was revised and the powers extended. The experts will assess the test battery so that we can see clearly where any discrimination against persons with disabilities should be eliminated if they are present. Our aim is also to speed up the selection procedures for people with disabilities. For this we are working on a KB to ease contractual recruitment of people with disabilities. Of course, we want to give the federal employers additional levers to achieve the 3% target and offer the disabled applicants more concrete opportunities to work with the federal government. Through this accelerated procedure, people with disabilities can also be directly reached and we can use short selection procedures, but the same competences are identified. I would just like to stress that the bar is not lowered in terms of competences, that is in no way the reality. I want KB to publish in 2022. We are also taking a number of concrete actions to reduce our backlog in the recruitment of people with disabilities and to find suitable profiles. We will invest in targeted employee branding. It should also be made clear to the target group that they are welcome. It is not enough to open the door to see that no one comes in, one really has to scout. That is why we have also participated in the REVA grant, which you are probably aware of, and also to promote the DUODAY initiative. This is a kind of short observation stage, in which candidates on the workplace can come and taste how things are going. That way we break the ice between employers and applicants. We further adapt the regulations to make recruitment as broad and inclusive as possible. To this end, we will certainly review the Royal Decree of 6 October 2005 in detail this year. We keep monitoring, because without numbers, we don't know what we're doing. We will also step up cooperation with tailor-made companies. You know that these can be included in the 3 % target. This is an indirect way of giving people with disabilities access to the federal government. Finally, we are constantly raising awareness of the organisations in the area of reasonable adjustments, in which we provide for people with disabilities to have access to the selection procedures. This is a measure of equity, not of equality, which gives people with disabilities the same opportunities as the others. For example, Braille rules and all kinds of equipment are covered by what is called reasonable adjustments.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u19	Madam Secretary, can you clarify what you mean by the accelerated application procedures? How do you see that in concrete terms? Is that just a gear in time? You say the bar is not lowered, but what will you do? Or is it an en-en-story after all, and shortening the time at what time is that? Do you want to change the test?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u20	It is indeed an en-en-story. It is not by making reasonable adjustments that we speed things up. We need to change the royal decree to allow those people to flow in faster. It's really about shortening. However, I cannot tell you what the time limit is or how we will do it before the trial. I don't have an answer to that right away and I don't think I'll get it right away either. The point is that the classic procedures take too long, are far too cumbersome and deter many people. We want to offer these reasonable adjustments to remove the barriers faced by people with disabilities. By speeding up the procedures, the federal government can attract and keep them faster, but I can't tell you how short that period will be at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u21	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I was hoping to hear more of your views on that. I have read in the newspaper what you have said, but that does not make it clear to the sector and to myself at the moment what will change in practice. It is clear that there must be and will be simultaneous work on all fronts. I am convinced of that, but we will not get there just by shortening the procedures. By the way, that's something that's gonna benefit everyone. People without disabilities are also pulling out today because they have already started somewhere else, before they get a first answer. If you have to wait months to go through a procedure with the government, you often start somewhere else. I have also said a number of times that we actually have to work in two ways. No one says that for certain functions one should lower the bar. One has to test the competences one needs. The problem with the Selor tests is that far too generic, too large, is being tested. People with disabilities who can handle a particular task perfectly and who will really perform as the best, are therefore not suitable for any function within the government for which generic, general, broad Selor tests are used today. That's not always necessary. Hopefully one of your most important adjustments is to test what is needed, and not everything. It may be necessary to abandon what has been introduced, but in this way people with disabilities who have a certain profile will be able to be recruited. People in wheelchairs may be able to participate in a generic test and flow into different functions, but it's an en-en-story. I myself was present at the REVA fair and I debated it there. In the Chamber we will also walk those two slopes. With the functions that remain open to everyone, we will possibly provide tools for testing, such as Braille or a enlarged screen. This remains a fairly wide generic test, but after that one gets access to all functions. In addition, an administration can determine which functions can initially, in a first phase, only be reserved for people with disabilities. Only when no one is found in that group can the function be opened to others. This is another approach, which focuses on those functions. I hope you're willing to do something about that. I would like to share my experience with you, but there are certainly experts who can advise you on this. Hopefully we can take some steps forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u22	Mr President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u23	Mr President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u24	Mr President, Mrs Lanjri, Mrs Goethals, well-being at work is an important issue. Work pressure has an impact on outage, stress and possibly burn-out. Personally, I am very interested in this subject, of course because of my medical background, but also as a human being. It's really a phenomenon of our time in all sectors and all domains, but now we're talking about the public sector. The mental well-being of our officials is one of my absolute priorities. We have to establish, in response to what has been said in previous oral questions, that there has been considerable savings in the public sector in recent years. If the workload does not go down proportionally, but on the contrary increases, you can understand that we end up in situations where things such as workload, stress and downtime increase. The corona pandemic has certainly played a role in this. I refer again to the sectoral agreement, because these are things to take into account: the upgrading of remuneration, which can attract new people, making the public sector attractive and a sustainable career policy. Attracting new staff is not easy in the current tight labour market. We need to get more talent to the government. For me, better distribution and reduction of workload are a step towards solving mental well-being problems. This can be done, for example, by adapting diploma requirements, especially for bottleneck functions such as IT, and for example by recruiting for competences. That's an important element to think about. In addition, we must ensure a market-based remuneration and also attract side-instromers, for example by granting additional seniority. We also need to look at the selection procedures. We have just talked about people with disabilities, but I think it is correct to say that it is a general element on which we have to work. We also need to speed up selection procedures, for example by enabling continuous selection, especially for critical and high volume functions, and by testing initiatives on the combination of work and training on the job. You know that we are also working on employee branding to attract people to the government. That is why we will be announcing further measures in the autumn. My second major concern is the development of a sustainable career policy. We have already taken various initiatives. Existing initiatives will be strengthened. I will give you a few elements in that. Since 2018, the Federal Career Centre of the FOD BOSA has been steering a pool of internal career supervisors. In 2021, 378 people made use of it. If we look at who's asking for career guidance, it's mainly about higher profiles. We have seen that 40% of the participants in the project are figures from 2021, because of more self-confidence and less stress in the workplace. Coaching around career prospects for people improves their well-being at work. I absolutely want to make more efforts on that. I would like to communicate further on that point. After all, I am convinced that this can create more opportunities for everyone. The pool of internal career supervisors needs to be strengthened. The right to career guidance should be enshrined in the Staff Regulations of federal officials so that everyone can make use of them. It strikes me that, above all, higher-skilled people make use of it. I believe that everyone should be able to use it, including people in administrative or operational functions. We need to see how we can achieve that. In addition to guidance at the career path, there is another element, namely that there should no longer be taboos around mental health in the workplace. At the beginning of this year we introduced the right to let go of the work after working hours. In order to avoid any misunderstandings once again, this is about the conversation with the supervisor and making good appointments. In this way we come to a culture in which we can talk openly about these elements. This includes the right to deconnection, with all the exceptions necessary for operational continuity. That makes sense to me. We have also expanded the network of stress and burn-out coaches. There were 24, meanwhile there are 50, which is a doubling. They spend up to 10 % of their working time, they are not full-time jobs, half a day a week, on their role as stress and burn-out coach. Since 2021, 108 federal staff have applied for a job. That figure may well be higher for me. Remember that it is a preventive measure to ensure that people do not burn out and do not fall out. The coaches, those who have followed the course, have all said in their evaluation that this process has definitely brought added value and that it has taught their tips and techniques to deal with stress and emotions, to distance themselves from things that are beyond their control, to rediscover what they are good at and what they like to do. All these things contribute to mental well-being at work. Of course career guidance or coaching is absolutely insufficient in itself. These measures can help, but they are not enough. Since last year, we have freed up budgets for training on resilience, deconnection and mental health at work, for staff and also for executives. We have already organized 90 training days, all of which were full. They were very successful. I believe that this is a sign that the taboo on psychological well-being at work is gradually being broken. It can be talked about. The interest is there, that's obvious. The managers clearly give the employees the time and space to participate in these training courses. The government is preparing to discuss other structural measures, but we will have to work within the regulations on additional training, guidance and awareness-raising. Mental well-being is an absolute spearhead. As you know, there are other initiatives in this area, including in the private sector. I am, of course, concerned with the public sector. Medex figures are parallel to the private sector trend, for example in the study carried out by Securex. I would also like to correct a misunderstanding here. We have read strange things in the press, namely that 40% of officials are under stress. That's not true. The figure quoted was that 40% of the disease reports were caused by stress. For officials staying at home because of illness, who are absent for one day or more, the absence in 40% of cases is stressful. For really long absences, the percentage is a bit lower, namely 13 %. It is not true that 40% of all civil servants suffer from stress. However, 40% of the absences are related to this. That percentage is rising, by the way. You remember that. Unfortunately, the percentage has risen in recent years. This means that we are taking accompanying measures for healthy careers, but we also want to strengthen the actors that should contribute to this. For example, we will continue to develop Empreva as a kind of common internal service for prevention and protection at work. For this purpose, we will provide additional staff, occupational doctors, nurses and prevention advisers, as well as a centre of expertise that will provide broader support for HR policy at the federal level and federal government organisations. From 1 October 2022 we will give Medex a new, more activating role in the supervision of long-term ill officials. That is a competence that we, together with Minister Vandenbroucke, exercise with regard to Empreva. We are also increasing the chances of reintegration, by allowing training activities during a period of illness and by refining the system of reduced benefits for medical reasons. It will also apply to trainees and staff with disabilities. With this package of measures, we really want to make a full commitment to a sustainable and healthy career in the government, focusing on employability during the full career, both in terms of prevention and rehabilitation. Together with all initiatives on career guidance, training, hybrid work and the search for a better balance between work and private life, we hope that these measures will lead to more workability for staff and more manoeuvrability for the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u25	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The figures you have mentioned, and your reference to the 40%, are in line with the figures for employees in the private sector. There are not many differences in this respect. What I will come back to later is the reactivation of long-term ill civil servants. In this respect, there are still considerable differences between what has been done so far in the private sector for long-term ill workers who are being reactivated and, especially with the plans that are now under way, the opportunities for civil servants to get back to work after they have been ill for a long time. In this respect, I hear complaints from the sector that there is far too little or almost no commitment to reactivation, although the potential in this area is enormous and although it contains the answer to ensure that other officials who have to take over the work of sick colleagues do not overwork. So make sure that anyone who wants to get back to work can do so and is accompanied by it, so that the remaining officials do not have to take over all the work and in this way also succumb to too high a workload. Another interesting figure that you may know and which emerged in a monitoring of the SERV in Flanders, is that 49.6 % of Flemish employees think that his job is not workable. That's an incredibly high grade. It is a phenomenon that is everywhere and that really needs to be addressed and addressed. I welcome your explanation of the many measures you are taking or intending to take, but I have also expressly emphasised the need to ensure that managers are supported in them. They should be able to detect and remove too high a workload in a timely manner by providing good, sustainable guidance. That is what is called peer management, in dialogue with the workers, and not constantly filling the bucket drop by drop until it overflows. I look forward to seeing the results of the measures you are proposing. They are good measures in themselves, but they need to be implemented in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u26	Indeed, Madam Minister, the measures you want or will take look good. They need to be monitored and evaluated. I think we're back to the first question. Here too, at all levels, we must proceed to the key tasks debate. What should be carried out by whom? Often, tasks are not required. This way, the workload can be lowered for a piece. During the covid period, a lot of people started working at home. I don't know if that's been investigated yet. I suppose so, but it's something that comes to mind spontaneously right now. I feel that because of homework many people have missed colleagues and social life so much that their burn-out might have arisen because of it. Not just because of that, but maybe that's the straw. I can imagine that I would feel bad as a single person if I sat on my apartment all week long, didn't see my colleagues anymore and couldn't take a pint in a manner of speaking. Or people with young children who have to hear jingle all the time while at work, that is not obvious either. So if that had not happened, I think it would be interesting to look into it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u27	Debates of the European Parliament Mr D'Amico's 55028848C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u28	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u29	Mrs Lanjri, in your question you refer to the answer given by Minister Dermagne, who is responsible for work and the RVA, but I will have to adapt it here and there, with good intentions, of course. In the 2022 budget format, the amounts mentioned by you were included as a saving as a result of the harmonisation of the time credit and the career break. During this spring's budgetary control, the Council of Ministers noted that aligning the career break system of the public sector with the time-credit system of the private sector in terms of inflow, motives, conditions and level of benefits will not lead to any budgetary increase in 2022. However, that was in the budgetary objectives. After analysis, however, it has been clear that this harmonisation will not lead to savings. Following this, the Council of Ministers instructed the Minister of Labour to submit to the Council of Ministers alternative proposals within the same perimeter by June, perhaps with some delay, with a view to achieving the budgetary objective for 2022, 2023 and 2024. In other words, the original budget line has been replaced and the Minister for Employment has been asked to propose another measure with the same budgetary objective. The harmonization of both systems will therefore not take place. That is the conclusion of what has been decided. Of course, from my point of view, I will make a constructive assessment of the proposals that will be made by the Minister of Work and, if necessary, will also, of course, consult with colleagues responsible for civil service matters in the sub-governments of our country. So at the moment we are waiting for a proposal to amend the budget line.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u30	Madam Secretary, your answer is clear but surprising. I had asked Minister Dermagne what was behind it, because he is competent for the benefits provided by the RVA when a career break is made. He said that there would be harmonisation and that you were responsible for that. You are now saying that there will be no harmonisation. Then my question is, why isn't there going to be one? It seems to me to be a good idea to see where we can harmonise in the systems of workers, self-employed workers and civil servants, especially as this is also in the coalition agreement. Why don't you harmonise, Madam Secretary? Mr Dermagne is also counting on the savings you would make in terms of harmonisation. If it doesn't, he'll have to look for another saving. I don't understand that very well. Can you explain that, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u31	I would certainly like to explain that. The budget agreement stated that this harmonisation should generate a certain budgetary return, rising by 2022, 2023 and 2024. We didn't realize that in 2022. Why is that? That's been investigated. This has shown that harmonization is impossible to achieve. Then it was agreed in the Council of Ministers that this yield had to be realised in another way, within the competence of Minister Dermagne, regardless of my competence. I have not been asked to continue working on this harmonisation, which would not save the budget, but rather the opposite. At the moment this is not an object of further execution. Of course, we are looking for harmonisation between the systems in other areas. This remains a guiding principle in the coalition agreement, but not in the context of the savings operation that needs to be carried out in the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u32	Apart from the fact that harmonisation entails savings or costs, do you intend to seek greater coordination and harmonisation of career breaks in the workers' system?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u33	That's not on my agenda right now. That was taken away by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u35	Minister, mental health first aid was born in Australia in 2000 and has proven its worth in more than 26 countries. This training educates first aid workers who are then better able to identify mental health disorders, to adopt appropriate behaviour, to inform about available resources, to encourage an adequate professional and, in case of crisis, to act to relay to the most suitable service. It is not a matter of providing care or replacing mental health professionals (physicians or psychiatrists, psychologists, nurses) but of applying first aid actions, just as physical assistance is provided to an injured person or a person who is sick. This program entitled First Aids in Mental Health (PSSM) was deployed in France in 2019, in the wake of the covid crisis, initially in universities with the objective of training more than 5,000 first aid workers. Other institutions, such as prison administrations, followed. Public employers were invited to encourage staff under their responsibility to take this training in mental health. Since February 2022, this training has been extended to the public service for voluntary agents because it is not mandatory. The aim is to contribute to the development of a culture of mental health prevention and to combat the stigmatization of mental disorders. Switzerland and Luxembourg joined the effort. In Belgium, the Red Cross and Mensura also offer the training in question. When we see that more than half of Belgians indicate that their mental health has been negatively affected by the covid pandemic and that, as you said, Madam Minister, we see the number of burns out increase dangerously, what is your analysis of this initiative and, above all, of its transposition into the federal public service?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u36	Mrs. Hmente, thank you for your question about mental health care in the public service. As I have already announced on several occasions, today too, well-being at work is indeed one of the priorities of my policy and of all of us, I think. The BOSA FPS has been supporting the mental health of federal public servants since 2008. At present, there is already a whole range of training on well-being, both for employees and for managers. They cover both regulation and practical aspects, and thanks to them, participants actually acquire new skills through interactive methods. In this context, the first aid training in case of detection of a psychic problem gives rise to our absolute interest. This free training of the Flemish Red Cross seems to us to be particularly useful. That is why I asked SPF BOSA to do a market study on the provision of training in this field. Regardless of this initiative, the federal government is working in greater depth on mental well-being at work. In 2021 and 2022, I released a budget for a first package of measures. These are initiatives that I have already mentioned in previous responses today. For example, there is additional training for managers and staff on resilience, the right to disconnect, and related training, the reform of the reintegration system, investment in sustainable careers and clear information on health, reintegration and awareness. We are currently preparing the following package of measures. Without being exhaustive and just as an example, I already share some lines of action. First, we will identify groups of collaborators for whom mental well-being must be integrated as an element in risk profiles. We will also include mental well-being as a mandatory skill in the function description of each manager. An extension of training is also planned for both individual staff members and well-targeted groups such as managers, prevention advisers, human resources, etc. Finally, as already mentioned in a previous question, the strengthening of Empreva remains our relevant ambition. These actions aim to identify signs of risk of burnout, depression or anxiety disorders, and to respond adequately to workers' mental problems and possibly direct them to professional assistance. Your suggestion today is certainly going to be part of this, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u37	Minister, thank you for your encouraging answers. We conducted numerous hearings on mental health and, each time, the experts stressed the importance of early detection and the importance of de-stigmatizing mental health problems. In community health, one cannot put a psychologist next to each person. It is therefore everyone's responsibility to better detect these problems and realize that it is a health problem in general. The development of a dynamic that fosters the development of this culture of mental health is important. The federal public service has often played a pioneering role in terms of well-being, and it is its role to lead by example. Public enterprises, especially those in contact with a broad public, should also be pioneers. Thank you for the action plan you are going to put in place and I wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u38	Madam Minister, in your policy paper you stress the need for a correct reflection of society within the staff of the federal public office. Diversity and gender dimension receive your full attention, and I understand that. At the beginning of the legislature, you took steps to make at least one third of the judges for the recruitment of persons for management positions a woman. You've gone beyond that objective, and now you want half of the judges to be a woman. What effect do you think this will have? Do you really think that a modified jury composition will affect the recruitment process? How can this play a role in the development of gender equality? Would you like to take further steps on the feminisation of top officials? You said that in the selection process there are often unconscious processes, which often means choosing someone who looks like a member of the Examination Board. You are scientifically educated, Madam Secretary. What scientific study did you base yourself on?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u39	I will answer the questions according to the order in which they were asked. The last question triggers my scientific background. Mrs Goethals, as regards the feminisation of the top officials' corps, I would firstly like to say that limiting the number of terms of office in the same top position is primarily intended to increase mobility within the top managers' group and to prevent certain top officials from holding the same post for more than 20 years, which has happened in the past. This leads to more flow, so that everyone, including more women, will have more opportunities to occupy these posts, because today, mostly men are in those posts. That is not the only purpose of this limitation. It will have an indirect positive effect, but I believe that mobility will eventually lead to greater dissemination of knowledge, higher influx of top candidates from the private sector and innovative ideas. That's a good principle. It remains my ambition to achieve a better and more representative influx of top managers during the current legislature. I mean not only women, but also people from the private sector, people of foreign origin, people with disabilities. They should all be able to find their way to a top position in the federal government more easily. We are taking concrete initiatives in this regard. Through measurements and monitoring of the selections, the candidates and the laureates, we can evaluate and adjust the situation through an evidence-based approach and try to achieve our goals in function. By improving the branding of this function, we can also make the position known to the different target groups and appeal to more candidates from the different segments. So what we will not do is to introduce quotas. I want to be clear about this from the outset. I have clearly chosen to get more women into that position without quotas. Many other measures can be taken to this end. We'll bet on that, too. We will also try to better prepare internal candidates with the potential for management functions, so that they are interested. We will do that through trajectories like Gold, which you may know. It is an intensive 20-day training programme, spread over ten months, which is dedicated to public leadership and governance, so that they can be caught up in these functions and flow faster. I am aware that the current population of federal top managers is not sufficiently representative of the entire population. As you know, together with Vlerick, we have conducted a study to investigate why there is a lack of gender diversity at the highest levels of management in federal government. No big surprises came out of that. It was certainly not the case that the lack of women is due to a lack of ambition or motivation, which is sometimes claimed. That's not right at all. However, a number of challenges were identified and a number of structural and psychological barriers that could play a role, such as experienced inclusion in organisations, a higher risk of women's leadership image and a greater threat to women's social identity. There are many barriers that are present in women themselves. In order to tackle them, we need to go much further and start addressing them in education and change our society. That would lead us a little too far. However, it is important to identify these barriers. That is why we have succeeded, and that is why we want to continue it in a better approach to gender balance in the jury's, but of course we prefer to go to parity. That is a response to some of the challenges we have identified. We must, of course, continue to do so. We will also continue to invest in initiatives such as Top Skills and will set up campaigns to encourage candidates from the Top Skills target group for a top manager job. You are asking about the scientific studies in this regard. I have to check that and I would like to give you the references, but when it comes to discrimination, there is always something like unconscious bias, unconscious bias. We are full of all kinds of unconscious prejudices, which lead us to unwittingly discriminate. We do so unconsciously, because we do not want to do so. One of the elements that illustrates the unconscious bias is the fact that one will unconsciously choose the person who is most like yourself, when one has to select a candidate from a group of people. That is a basic psychological effect that plays in all domains, whether it is about the selection of candidates or about completely different things. The phenomenon of unconscious bias is really well known by people who do research on this. We need to make people executives and judges aware that that is happening so that they can take that into account. One can eliminate that for a piece by making a jury as inclusive and diverse as possible. For example, people with a migration background or women, because that is what this is about, with equal competences... If there is a purely male jury, the chance of equal competences increases that jury is for the male candidate and not for the female candidate. There are studies that show that. If you'd like, I can have you send in that research. That has really been scientifically proven. It's not a fantasy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-12-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic854x.u40	I would never suspect you of that. I'm glad you mentioned the quotas yourself. I was a little afraid that this was the first step towards the introduction of quotas. The perfect man or woman must come into the perfect place, whether this happens to be five men or five women. If those people belong there, that's where they belong. Quotas are always very difficult to fill in. That's very dangerous. This kind of triggers me, too. I will certainly not contradict you.
