ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic820x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Caluwé's 55026583C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic820x.u2	Mr De Caluwe is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic820x.u3	Minister, the first meeting of the Agriculture Task Force took place on 29 March 2022. The task force should allow for short-term play in the event of a negative impact on the agri-food sector, for example as a result of the war in Ukraine, is based on action plans. How's the meeting going in the task force? You indicated that a working method was also agreed during a first consultation. Can you explain that method? What problems are currently being addressed by action plans? Can you also explain the action plans on a problem-by-problem basis? What financial support do you attach to the action plans? Are further problems expected in the future? If so, what would they be? On June 3, the National Bank published an analysis of the economic impact of the war in Ukraine. Can you explain it to me? When will the analysis be discussed at the task force? Do you also see whether in Belgium, in the agri-food sector, bankruptcies are due to the consequences of the war? If so, how many? Do you also foresee an analysis of the Price Observatory to get a clear picture of the impact on consumer prices? You mentioned earlier that the Price Observatory is working on an update of the study of prices and margins in the pig sector. I have asked a lot of questions, and if it is easier, you can also give some answers in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic820x.u4	Since the beginning of the Ukraine crisis, I have been in constant contact with the representatives of the operators active in the agri-food sector, namely the Agrofront, which represents the primary front actors, Fevia and other associations representing the agri-food industry, and the main players in the retail sector. In these many conversations I was directly informed about the difficult situation faced by all the players in the agri-food chain and the problems were more specific. Together with Minister Dermagne and State Secretary De Bleeker, I took the initiative to set up a Task Force for Ukraine specifically for the agri-food sector. The various sectors of the food industry were invited to participate. The Task Force for Ukraine Agrofood has already met three times. The main stakeholders, the competent administrations and the regional authorities were also invited. During the first meeting of the Task Force, everyone was given the opportunity to share their concerns and problems. The main concerns identified by the agri-food sector concern, on the one hand, the supply of specific products and, on the other hand, the cost increases and price fluctuations of the basic and processing materials of packaging and wages, which are also faced by the sectors. Based on these concerns and on the survey carried out by Fevia, the situation requires vigilance. The industry's first priority had to do with the difficulties of replacing sunflower oil and derived products with alternative products. Because there is no harmonised position on the labelling of substitute products at European level, we have allowed the affected sectors to use alternative products. Detailed rules were drawn up on labelling by the relevant administrations in cooperation with the sectors. We want to guarantee the supply of our people at all times, with respect, of course, for the safety of the food chain and for the rights of consumers. In the meantime, a framework has also been established for the marketing of other substitutes. On labelling, a solution was found for foreign manufacturers. At present, no figures are available to capture any bankruptcies. It is clear that the current situation confronts a number of companies with new liquidity challenges. Following the consultations with the sectors of 29 March, the FPS Economy identifies its concerns in order to identify with all policy levels the appropriate measures to ensure the long-term continuity and activity of the agri-food sector. I will continue to listen to the sectors affected to see what other measures can be taken to give firm concrete support in the longer term and to keep up with any new problems. We can count on the work of the FPS Economy and the NBB to update those questions. The core consultation, in which representatives of the whole chain participate, can play an important role in developing a balanced approach to the problems arising from the war in Ukraine and a fair distribution of profits to keep all the links in the chain viable. The chain dialogue is taking place on its own initiative, but I have already stressed the importance of this consultation and called on all sectors concerned to participate constructively. In addition to the information coming directly from the sectors through the chain consultation, and the information provided by the Price Observatory, the FPS Economy also uses certain macroeconomic elements from the study of the National Bank of Belgium, published in May 2022. This study was commissioned by the Prime Minister to carry out his analysis. The Price Observatory closely follows the situation, both the price development throughout the chain and the evolution of the margins in the agro-food column. In this way, we can rely on objective data. On 28 April 2022, I attended the information session on the recent development of the legislation on unfair commercial practices of the FPS Economy. The new law transposing the UTP Directive as well as any measures taken in the event of force majeure and unforeseenness should make it possible to rebalance the B2B relationships.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic820x.u5	It is indeed important that the situation is monitored closely. The creation of a task force was also a very good initiative. I am pleased that several meetings have already taken place and that the sectors affected are being kept on track. I believe that we must remain vigilant so that our food supplies are not compromised and food safety guaranteed. So there is definitely a need for vigilance. Thanks for the initiative. We'll keep following it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic820x.u6	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanbesien's 55027654C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic820x.u7	Minister, we have already had an opportunity to discuss this in the context of your draft law which will be voted on in plenary tomorrow. It is about the KB that is in the process of allowing local anesthesia for livestock farmers in the castration of piglets. On the one hand, therefore, there is a legalisation of the practice of castration actually prohibited by livestock farmers, but on the other hand, there is the authorisation of anesthesia by livestock farmers. So far, this has not been regulated by law. It would be up to the resident veterinarian to deliver the anaesthetics. Do you think it would be desirable for farmers to be able to practice veterinary practices and to legalise the actually illegal castration of piglets in this way? Will training also be provided in this context? Do you think it would be desirable for persons without veterinary training to be able to administer local anaesthetics? How is this monitored? Will training be provided before authorisation is granted to handle, dose and administer such products? Will needle injuries be monitored? How will castration be controlled only under local anaesthesia? How do you frame this in the concept of the one health principle? What do you think of the principle of an accredited veterinary assistant trained to carry out certain veterinary activities under delegation? Do you think it is a valid piste to organise activities such as the administration of anesthesia but also of vaccines and castration of pigs in livestock farmers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic820x.u8	There is indeed a proposal from KB in preparation. The aim is to develop a regulation that complies with the animal welfare provisions and sets out clearly who can carry out which action and under what conditions. In order to achieve a result which is shared by all, at the beginning of this month I organised a consultation with the sectors concerned, in particular with representatives of the agricultural sector and veterinary surgeons. This consultation was very constructive and, as it is in everyone's interest to reach an agreement in the short term, I planned a follow-up meeting later this month where, after consultation with their supporters, representatives could continue working on a joint proposal. It is not the right time for me to go into your specific questions and hypotheses. I will be happy to return to it in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic820x.u9	I understand you don't want to go any further. I fully agree that something needs to be done in the context of animal welfare. Castration without anaesthesia is not acceptable. Today, however, there are a number of alternatives to piglets castration, such as leaving the bears intact and thus not carrying out the castration. Adjusted food would also reduce the disturbing boar smell a lot. Immunological castration also exists now. These are matters that are becoming more and more apparent. Do we have to go on such a far-reaching slope as having livestock farmers carry out anesthesia and have livestock farmers carry out castrations, if alternatives are available? This can create quite a precedent. This is in conflict with the skills and long-term training of veterinary surgeons, who are now being given out of their hands to people who have not received the training to probably carry it out properly. Also to avoid complications, I do not think this is appropriate. I am afraid that there will be an increase in antibiotic use, for example. Nor is that appropriate under the One Health principle. I understand that this is also a European problem and that we cannot play cavalier seul. This has to be discussed. I do not think we should extort ourselves from the market either. Our livestock farmers must be given every opportunity to carry out livestock farming in a viable way. I would nevertheless ask you to take this with you to Europe, when you are in consultation with your colleagues, and to call for an extinguishment policy for surgical castration.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic820x.u10	Mr President, Minister, last month Belgium asked the European Commission to be able to derogate from the requirements of the common agricultural policy in terms of greening. You announced it through a press release that you signed with your colleagues, Jo Bruns and Willy Borsus. The reason for this request for derogation is that we are at risk of a historic drought this summer, according to the Royal Meteorological Institute. You say, minister, that "the drought that we are experiencing is causing a deterioration both in the state of crops but above all in the availability of feed for livestock, with widespread declines in productivity. Farmers could face serious financial and technical difficulties." However, the greening of agriculture serves precisely as a prevention of drought. Of course, we support farmers and we believe that they should not be abandoned in the face of today's exceptional weather conditions. However, allow me to have doubts about this request for derogation. In fact, last year it was floods and weather that caused the derogations from greening. Minister, do you agree with the rationale for this greening of agriculture policy included in the new CAP and with the preventive aspect that it constitutes? What other measures are you planning to support farmers in the face of the historic drought that we are facing this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic820x.u11	Mr President, my colleague, Belgium supports the objectives of the Green Deal and the farm to fork strategy. These two approaches to greening agriculture are closely interconnected to ensure the well-being of citizens and future generations. The succession of events, the covid crisis, the war in Ukraine and the weather conditions affecting Belgium and more generally Europe lead to deregulation of agricultural markets. Currently, rising input and energy costs continue to reduce producer profit margins. In response to this situation, the European Commission (EC) has proposed measures to support farmers and to maintain the necessary agricultural production. There is no question for us of abandoning the greening policy established in the CAP, but of asking the EC for the possibility of taking certain freedoms in the face of critical situations in relation to the conditions imposed in order to preserve the food sovereignty of the European Union. The federated entities and the federal government are well aware that after last year's floods, we are likely to experience a historic drought that will have a strong impact on our farmers. Nevertheless, the development of strategic plans, the management of direct aid to farmers and natural disasters fall within the competence of my regional colleagues. You'll have to ask them the questions you asked me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic820x.u12	Mr Minister, I understand that we need to act quickly for our farmers, but first of all, I note that it is possible to derogate from European rules since Belgium has asked for it - we will see if it will be accepted. I think that in the long run, making a cross over greening standards is not necessarily the best solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic820x.u13	Mr President, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic820x.u14	Mrs Houtmeyers, in the course of 2021, together with my colleague from Economy, I launched an evaluation of the Code of Conduct for Good Relationships between Brewers, Drink Traders and Restaurants, the three federations of the country organised at regional level and recognised by the High Council for Self-employed Persons and the SME or HRZKMO. An evaluation report was prepared by the FPS Economy on the basis of bilateral consultations with the signatories of the Code of Conduct. This report was sent to all participants on 1 December. The HRZKMO also issued an opinion on the Code of Conduct on 20 July. This opinion is public and can be consulted on the HRZKMO website. On the basis of the above-mentioned opinion, we invited the signatories to the Code of Conduct to agree on an addendum to the Code of Conduct, the purpose of which is to regulate the legal and contractual consequences of non-compliance by catering operators in the context of the health crisis. At the end of November 2021, the signatories announced that they were close to an agreement but that the flare-up of the health crisis required much from the country's Catering Federation. I would remind you that at the end of last year the sector was still subject to closure hours and that the number of guests per table was limited. Moreover, I do not receive complaints from catering operators in this respect. A first working meeting to discuss the evaluation report of the FPS Economy was scheduled on 9 May with my cabinet, that of the Minister of Economy and the signatories of the code of conduct. Other meetings have taken place since this reply was drawn up and work is being done on this dossier. At this stage I can tell you that we want to bring the signatories of the code of conduct to the table in particular, in order to assist them if an update would appear necessary. I'm very optimistic about reaching an agreement in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic820x.u15	Thank you, Minister. The question has been dated for a while, it was filed a while ago. So the answer was also a bit dated. It would have been interesting if we could have heard what was being discussed in May, as it is now mid-June. To be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic820x.u16	I do not have all the information, but I know that the work is in progress. An agreement is possible, we have to wait. However, we are on the right track.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic820x.u17	Mr President, I will ask this question because it is very topical and important for me and for many SMEs and other companies. We recently read that investors and economists saw economic growth falling silent after the summer. Those are very disturbing signals, aren't they? It was alarming words that we read in the newspaper early this week. However, the words did not surprise me. Indeed, SMEs and self-employed people have been living in fear of what is coming. First there was the corona crisis and now there's the war in Ukraine. The end isn't in sight there either. During the corona pandemic, the hope was that the money, which was saved massively during the crisis, would be spent smoothly afterwards. At first that happened, but from the second half of this year a change is expected. We're actually seeing this turn of events right now. Oil prices are reaching record levels and inflation is increasing, so consumers will be put on hold. A lot of self-employed people and entrepreneurs are feeling that right now. They also see that their additional costs increase and can no longer pass them on to the customer and postpone their own investments. In short, the impact on our SMEs is huge. The combination of higher costs and falling demand weighs heavily on their business performance and morality. Mr Minister, do you understand the concerns of SMEs and self-employed people in our country and what solutions are you thinking of supporting them at this difficult time?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic820x.u18	Mr President, according to the report of the National Bank, the purchasing power of households does not fall immediately, since wages are indexed, albeit with some delay. The energy problems appear to be a sour apple for the public authorities and entrepreneurs in particular. It does not therefore make it easier to enter into business. Some entrepreneurs are able to compensate for the increased energy prices with the profit margins already in place, but others face major difficulties. Can you explain the report of the National Bank and your views on this? The government cannot provide a solution to every problem through measures with budgetary impact. The National Bank agrees with this and also identifies the government as one of the biggest victims. Are you planning budget-neutral policies or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic820x.u19	Mr President, I will answer the questions put together. Your questions relate to my analysis of the NBB's report and the measures that may need to be taken at federal level to support SMEs, affected by the particular economic situation in Belgium and, more broadly, Europe. You can be sure that I am aware of the concerns and fears of the country's SMEs in terms of the current situation and future. I am in close contact with the various economic sectors. Together with the entire government, we have taken note of the NBB's response. That includes several elements. In the first instance, the latest macroeconomic forecasts show that Belgian companies are failing to fully convert the increase in their production costs into their sales prices, thus reducing their gross operating margin. These have reached an historic height in 2011 according to the National Institute of Accounts. However, they will not fall below the average observed over the 20 years preceding the covid crisis. Moreover, the increase in production costs can also affect the external competitiveness of Belgian companies, but rather limited, insofar as the crisis affects all European countries. The NBB expects a decrease in inflation below the following assumptions. Firstly, energy prices are expected to fall according to future prices on international markets. At the same time, current bottlenecks in supply chains are expected to gradually disappear by the end of 2023. An increase in geopolitical tensions could, of course, be a disaster. Thirdly, the assessment that there will be no long-term price spiral also depends on the fact that the profit margins of the companies will absorb part of the price shock, as observed in previous periods of high wage costs, and on the fact that the 1996 Act on Competitiveness and Employment will be complied with with with the restrictions on conventional wage increases. Inflation may be higher or more persistent if external price pressures remain higher than is currently assumed, if profit margins do not decrease or if conventional wages increase more rapidly, although the most recent high-frequency indicators indicate that the short-term outlook is not so unfavourable. Entrepreneurship confidence is holding up fairly well, while other recent data on payments also seem to indicate a slight slowdown rather than a deeper crisis. However, the forecast of growth in the second quarter is low, but annual GDP growth is still estimated at 2.4 % in 2022. A micro-economic analysis has allowed the NBB to refine further according to a differentiated approach by sector. This shows that the stronger increase in energy prices will affect all enterprises in all sectors of activity of the economy, but to varying degrees because the share of energy in the purchases of inputs may vary from less than 1% to more than 50% depending on the sector. The most energy intensive sectors are most exposed such as industry, petrochemicals, fisheries, forestry, transport centres and data centres. Not all companies are able to charge an increase in their costs in their sales prices. According to the NBB, the companies are able to pass on on on average 60% of that increase to their customers, which allows them to mitigate the impact of the energy shock a little. The energy-intensive industry is generally able to pass the price increase on to the final consumer more than on average. The same definition applies to large companies. As a result, small businesses are at greater risk of being affected by the energy crisis. Due to the indexation mechanisms, the price increase also has an impact on wages in Belgium. In general, labour-intensive sectors have low energy intensity and vice versa. There are few sectors facing pronounced energy shock linked to significant wage shock. For example, the impact of wage shock on companies will weigh more heavily in labour-intensive sectors, such as services. Some sectors that were already struggling in 2021 are now under even more pressure: air transport and inland waterway transport, fruit and vegetables, building support. Therefore, the analysis of the NBB shows that the situation was broadly favourable in 2021 and that there are many sectors that have a certain ability to cope with the price increases. The micro-economic analysis nuances this finding by highlighting the sectoral imbalances in the expected impact of the increase in energy costs and wages, in particular in those sectors where the situation was not so favourable in 2021. Any aid granted to undertakings must therefore be differentiated in order to take account of the different situations of each sector. Just as during the COVID-19 pandemic, the government does not drop the SMEs. On the contrary, we are again taking measures to support the self-employed and SMEs and to help them cope with the current market disruption. I am thinking here of the right to bridge the crisis, which is directly justified by the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, and of temporary unemployment, which was extended until the end of June 2022. The government has only just taken note of this analysis. That is why it is too early for me to share with you the measures envisaged, even in design form.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic820x.u20	You said, Minister, that the prospects would not be so unfavourable. There would be a slight delay. Well, I also saw the figures in Mrs Reuter's question. According to the UCM, 40% think its turnover will fall and 62 % see costs rise significantly. Those numbers date from April. If we had the same round question today, we would already have completely different answers. I'm afraid it's going very fast. Our entrepreneurs and the self-employed are extremely concerned. In recent years they have often had to invest extra private capital in their company to keep their heads above water. They don't see any new sales coming in, let alone margin. So they are particularly concerned that all that money will disappear into a pit. Automatic wage indexation is also very problematic for many companies. There are serious amounts of money involved. I am not at all comfortable with it myself, when I see around me how much panic there is among entrepreneurs and self-employed people. I fear there may be a domino effect in the short term. In the short term, the job market would also be able to turn over short-term debt securities within one or two years. Where there are now plenty of jobs, it is possible that people will no longer find work within two years if the situation continues to develop in this way. I think, no, I am convinced that we should continue to follow this matter very closely and remain alert. I do not estimate the situation at all if slightly delayed. It could be very rapid and very unfavourable for many companies, and therefore for the jobs in those companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic820x.u21	Minister, we know a lot of facts and we know that the sector is dependent. I myself am an entrepreneur in construction and see clearly that in the very energetic market of the bricks there is a great scarcity. This is perhaps also due to the production that is being shut down, because the energy costs can no longer be calculated, which can create a domino effect. Yesterday I happened to be present at an event of VOKA. I heard from all sides that SMEs are completely on the hold in their own investments. They therefore have no confidence at present in continuing their own investments that are ready. These investments are cancelled because the companies think their turnover will fall. This could speed up two areas: investment and consumers. However, we must wait and see. Nor can we intervene too quickly, but we must be very aware that it can happen very quickly. We are therefore counting on your vigilance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic820x.u22	Mr President, Mrs Houtmeyers, the European Court of Auditors' report focuses exclusively on ERDF support for the competitiveness of SMEs. As the name suggests, the regions are responsible for defining the priorities and strategies for the use of the European Regional Development Fund. It is therefore not for me to answer this question. Given the limited time taken to answer an oral question, I do not have the data and results on the use of the various European funds. Nevertheless, the SME strategy as a whole, including the part concerning the financing of SMEs, is one of my priorities. That is why I intend, in the framework of the Belgian Presidency, to consider this issue in depth and to address it in 2024.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic820x.u23	Minister, we must indeed ensure that our SMEs are effectively supported and that these subsidies are effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic820x.u24	The cyberscan was introduced more than six months ago. Has there been an evaluation of this tool? How was the tool received? How many entrepreneurs use it? In which sectors are they mainly active? What are your next planned policy interventions that match that context?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic820x.u25	The cyberscan was put online during March 2022, so just under three months ago. It is certainly too early to evaluate the instrument. The cyberscan is part of my measures to support SMEs in their digitisation process, very specifically to improve their cyber security. The function of this instrument is to provide the SME that consults the instrument with an overall picture of the level of its cyber security, and to give it appropriate advice to improve that security. Cyberscan focuses on all small SMEs from less than 50 full-time equivalents to self-employed people with low cyber security knowledge, who are the vast majority of our economic landscape. The instrument was designed to be as accessible and user-friendly as possible, through simple vocabulary, animation videos, templates to be filled in, etc. The General Directorate for SME Policy is currently launching the first evaluation of the implementation of the instrument, its use by SMEs and the success of the communication campaign on the cyber scan. I should be able to answer your questions in the next few weeks. The cyberscan is an instrument that will remain available on the FPS Economy website and will be improved on the basis of the periodic review. A version of the instrument should be available in English and German by the end of the year. Finally, under the Belgian Plan for Recovery and Resilience, five calls for projects will soon be launched by the FPS Economy to improve the cyber-weability of SMEs and sectors with lower levels of maturity in cybersecurity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic820x.u26	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. I understand it might be a little early for an evaluation. I hope that you will start doing so soon and that you will then return to us for the results. Can't you also give us the number of entrepreneurs? That's important. A translation into French or Dutch makes no sense if one of these languages is not used.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic820x.u27	Debates of the European Parliament 55028649C by Mrs Creemers will be converted into a written question.
