ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic860x.u1	Minister, you have just returned from a week-long mission to the DRC during which you accompanied the King on a first royal mission in 12 years. This mission was an opportunity for the King to express his most "deep regret" for the "injury of the past", evoking the Belgian colonial regime, based on "exploitation and domination", "discrimination and racism". He was the first Belgian king to condemn the colonial regime clearly. However, I regret, as Vice-President of the Committee on the colonial past, that he did not make excuses. Moreover, in order to facilitate the return of works to the DRC, Secretary of State Thomas Dermine has proposed a bill – which was recently discussed in the plenary session of the Parliament – which recognizes the alienability of property linked to the colonial past of the Belgian state and which establishes a legal framework for restitution. The text was approved in plenary. Belgium took advantage of the royal visit to return a work of great symbolic value to the DRC as part of the signing of a memorandum of understanding for cultural and museum cooperation. I would therefore like to ask you what this memorandum of understanding contains and how will Belgium support the reception and/or preservation of works that will be returned to their countries of origin?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic860x.u2	Thank you, Mr. Lacroix, for your question. The King's visit was historic to me. The King made a very explicit statement on issues such as racism, colonialism and paternalism. This has created an openness to better collaboration. As you know, Belgium and the DRC have started discussions about museum collections in Belgium being linked to a colonial past. As you say, my colleague Secretary of State Dermine has taken the initiative to develop a legal framework for the restitution of this property. The memorandum I signed with our Congolese partner during the recent visit to the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) is broader than the question of restitution. It is an agreement that will allow young Congolese people to participate in the debate and activities related to the reconstruction, conservation and promotion of Congolese cultural heritage. We will also build the capacity of young Congolese people to work in occupations related to the reconstruction, preservation and promotion of cultural heritage. The idea is not to limit itself to historical heritage but to make the connection with Congolese contemporary art. With this memorandum, I highlight the Congolese youth and value its enormous potential and creativity, which represents a force for the country's development.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic860x.u3	Minister, it is always a pleasure to see you again. Beyond this more personal word, I find your answer very interesting because it is built on a bilateral policy that we have on external relations and development cooperation, but you go much further than that. You are inspired somewhere by the work of the special commission Past Colonial in Congo, Burundi, Rwanda, which is far from over. I thank you for having, in the memorandum you signed with the Congolese authorities, made sure to reserve a very important place for young Congolese for the work of restitution and promotion of the cultural heritage past, but also to speak of contemporary art. You're planning on the relationship now and in the future. This is very interesting because it is a way of dealing with reparations other than in the financial aspect, which some want to make believe through the work of the Special Commission Past Colonial, since they claim that the Belgian people will have to hand over the portfolio to repay the Congo, Burundi and Rwanda. However, you show that it is not at all in this way that we can envisage repairs. Therefore, it is not just a question of money which is derogable in itself to the peoples concerned but also to the Belgian people. Beyond the question of money, there are capacities to implement. I am thinking of scientific research, the promotion of archives, the continuum of universities and the acquisition of knowledge and knowledge about colonial past: important things can be done in favour of the Congo, but also Burundi and Rwanda.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic860x.u4	Question No 55029561C by Mr Simon Moutquin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic860x.u5	Minister, Yemen is experiencing the worst humanitarian crisis in its recent history. NGOs do not have the capacity to respond to this crisis, which has had many cumulative effects over the past seven years. These effects are particularly visible for persons with disabilities, estimated at 4.8 million in Yemen. These handicaps are mostly not related to war injuries but are caused by the lack of care and the disastrous living conditions in conflict zones. These people lack assistance and protection and, in addition, their very low representation in the discourse on conflict prevention. In particular, this was denounced by Handicap International in its report Unshielded, Unseen. These persons are neither protected nor visible. The current situation in Yemen, however, is a source of hope, as since April a temporary truce has been under way. The current period therefore opens up possible political and diplomatic opportunities. Minister, will Belgium make Yemen one of its diplomatic and humanitarian priorities? Will you strengthen the debate at the international level, particularly in the context of the meeting of the United Nations Human Rights Council scheduled for 8-13 July? What is your vision for addressing persons with disabilities in conflict zones? Will Belgium commit itself to more inclusive humanitarian action in conflict zones? If so, in what areas? Will Belgium increase its annual contribution by €5 million in view of the deteriorating humanitarian situation in Yemen? In addition, from 20 to 23 June, the annual intersessional meeting of the Convention on the Prohibition of Anti-Personnel Mines was held, in which Belgium chaired the Article 5 Committee. In March 2022, Yemen requested an extension of the deadline until 2028, a request made during that session. This is perfectly audible since the conflict is ongoing and Yemen lacks funds and technical means. However, these requests for extension appear to be systematically accepted and the extension process lacks transparency. Belgium therefore has an important role to play in deciding on the follow-up to this request at the next Conference of States Parties in November 2022. Yemen's request for additional time was due, inter alia, to the lack of sufficient resources to ensure mine clearance. In this regard, Belgium also has a role to play in mine action, in the integrated approach to victim assistance. Under the Ottawa Treaty, Belgium has real competence and expertise. The truce that has been under way since April provides a small window of opportunity to address the issue of the protection of persons with disabilities in conflict zones and to propose a comprehensive approach to humanitarian action against mines, integrating the support of civilian populations (demining, prevention, psychological support, socio-economic inclusion, risk training). Minister, what is your approach to this question? Shouldn't we improve the transparency of this extension process that I was talking about? How could Belgium respond to Yemen's request? Will Belgium strengthen its commitment to humanitarian action against mines in Yemen? Will you participate or support demining operations in Yemen? If so, how? Will you play a role in advocating or implementing a comprehensive approach to humanitarian action against mines? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic860x.u6	Mr Dallemagne, thank you for your questions. The humanitarian consequences of the conflict in Yemen are enormous: 23.4 million people, or more than three quarters of the population, are in need of some form of humanitarian assistance. It was also for this reason that I participated in the High-Level Pledging Event for Yemen in March 2022. My message was very clear: we cannot forget the people of Yemen. For humanitarian assistance to reach those most in need, Belgium will continue its diplomatic efforts to ensure unimpeded access to humanitarian aid and respect for international humanitarian law. Belgium will continue to raise the Yemeni issue both bilaterally and in multilateral forums in order to keep this conflict at the top of the agenda. Belgium has ratified and signed the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and its Additional Protocol. It is also a signatory to the Charter for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities in Humanitarian Action. Through this Charter, Belgium is committed to ensuring the non-discrimination of persons with disabilities in humanitarian action, their participation in the development of inclusive policies and encourages cooperation and coordination on disability issues. Belgium has therefore supported projects and programmes specifically targeting persons with disabilities, in particular through the funding of the NGO Handicap International Belgium or through the support of the Special Appeal of the International Committee of the Red Cross on Disability. The Country-based Pooled Funds (CBPF) for Yemen, which Belgium finances, focuses on inclusion and gives priority to people with disabilities. In 2021, the Fund funded activities to improve living conditions and access to assistance for persons with disabilities. The same Fund also financed mine-action projects. Our financial support for the crisis in Yemen amounts to €5.75 million in 2022. More specifically, this is our contribution of €5 million to the Flexible Fund for Yemen, managed by OCHA, and part of a humanitarian programme that Oxfam is implementing in Yemen. To date, an additional contribution to the ongoing crisis in Yemen is not envisaged. With regard to your other questions on the Belgian political position and on demining, I invite you to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic860x.u7	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I note the importance and priority that you attach to this crisis. I think that is indeed one of the unfortunately forgotten conflicts. This conflict has been going on for many years and particularly affects the most vulnerable. Thank you for all the attention you can give to people with disabilities in these conflicts. I note Belgium's contribution to this crisis. For the time being, there is no additional contribution. I encourage you to consider the possibility of an additional contribution in the future, given the particularly dramatic situation of these populations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic860x.u8	Mr President, Madam Minister, this question is complementary to the one I had asked the Prime Minister, a question to which Mr Mathieu Michel answered yesterday. This question dealt with a much more political aspect. Today, my question relates to the shortage of medicines in Sri Lanka. For several months now, Sri Lanka has been facing the worst economic crisis since its independence in 1948. The government has announced that it will not be able to meet its international debt repayment deadlines. Since then, negotiations are under way with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), which is concerned about the impact of the ongoing crisis, particularly at the humanitarian level. As we know, this economic crisis has evolved into an extremely deep political and social crisis. The large-scale economic and financial crisis has led to a lack of payment of external debt. It results in an acute shortage of essential items such as food, medicines, cooking gas and other fuels. The population is forced to queue for hours in front of shops most of the time empty to buy, if possible, essential goods. The medical shortage is particularly worrying as it also concerns vital drugs. As the country has virtually no foreign currency reserves, the import of essential medicines is extremely difficult. Minister, what humanitarian aid can Belgium provide to Sri Lanka to overcome this crisis? What tools, financial resources and human resources can Belgium mobilise? As far as the shortage of medicines is concerned, what aid can Belgium provide in the face of the shortage of essential medicines? What tools, financial resources and human resources can Belgium mobilise? Madam Minister, I would like to conclude my speech by saying that I have addressed this question to you in particular in response to the alarms that have come to me from this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic860x.u9	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, as you stress, the current situation in Sri Lanka is worrying the international community. This situation is of particular concern to me in view of the humanitarian consequences of this crisis. According to the World Food Programme (WFP), three out of ten households are food insecure and 65,600 households are in a situation of severe food insecurity. Sri Lanka is not a priority country in the Belgian humanitarian strategy. Belgium, however, favours the financing of flexible humanitarian funds that allow rapid response anywhere in the world, including Sri Lanka. Among these funds, we support the Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) of the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) with 17 million euros in 2022. In early July, the Fund released $3.75 million for humanitarian projects in Sri Lanka, led by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the World Food Programme (WFP) and UNICEF. The Emergency Disaster Relief Fund (DREF) of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies received €2.5 million in 2022 from Belgium. DREF released 691,000 Swiss francs to support the Federation's emergency appeal. With this emergency appeal, the Federation and the Red Cross of Sri Lanka are estimated to be able to assist 500,000 people. On the issue of drug shortages, it should be noted that Belgium is providing core funding to its multilateral partners; this approach enables United Nations organizations such as UNICEF, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and health partners such as the Global Fund to Fight HIV, Tuberculosis and Malaria to mobilize resources quickly in the event of a crisis. For example, the Global Fund ensures continued access to treatment for HIV, tuberculosis and malaria. Belgium also finances the World Health Organization (WHO) for €8 million between 2021 and 2024, specifically for normative and operational work on global access to quality medicines. This work particularly supports low- and middle-income countries such as Sri Lanka.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic860x.u10	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that it is not a country of concentration and that Belgium works through instruments, such as the Global Fund and certain types of core funding. However, I would like to see an examination of how these funds are now being mobilized on the crisis in Sri Lanka, and to pay attention to this mobilization, particularly on the more urgent and particular aspect of these essential medicines. Once again, it is an alarm cry that was launched, in particular, by people and organisations that we met on the spot during a mission of the Inter-Parliamentary Union, a little over two years ago, with whom we kept contact. They spoke specifically to us. I would like us to be very attentive to this question and not to be left unanswered.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic860x.u11	As far as the last questions are concerned, since the members are absent, we can therefore close the work of our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic860x.u12	Mr President, what does that mean in concrete terms? Are the questions withdrawn or postponed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic860x.u13	Some questions are transformed into written questions and questions of unannounced members become moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic860x.u14	Mr President, this is not the first time we have seen this. Recently, questions have become more frequent but are not being dealt with. It would be good if the cabinet were informed of the questions being postponed or converted into written questions.
