ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u1	For my first question, I refer to the written text. "Mr. Secretary of State, on 9 November last, you had the opportunity to come to committee to present your assessment of the privacy law. You drew some 20 observations, which will be the first milestones of your reform, and which I think are already a good basis on which to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u2	•If the amendments to this bill are indeed part of your reform, can you let us know what the specific role of this advisory body will be? How will it influence the knowledge centre? Can you confirm that Frank Robben will be one of his members?" Secretary of State, on March 8, the Data Protection Authority (DPA) gave you an opinion on the proposed amendments to its organic law. While ODA welcomes your intention to strengthen ODA and its steering committee, it nevertheless concludes that the text, as it stands, seriously undermines both the effective functioning of ODA and its independence. In this way, ODA calls for the essential shortcomings of the text to be rectified in order, I quote, "to avoid exposing the organisation to structural problems which could undermine the performance of its tasks or even possible infringement procedures" since, as the opinion in question states, the project would violate the GDPR as it stands. Mr Secretary of State, do you recognize that your draft bill, as denounced in the opinion, will strengthen Parliament's control over ODA? If so, are you aware that the legislator's interference with the organisation and internal functioning of ODA would constitute a violation of the GDPR and the jurisprudence of the Court of Justice of the European Union? What follow-up do you intend to reserve to the comments of ODA? Do you think his concerns are well-founded? What advice have you sought in addition to ODA? Have data protection experts or experts from the European Union been consulted? What were their conclusions? Are you also considering seeking the opinion of the European Commission? Finally, when do you plan to table the bill in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u3	Secretary of State, you announced the arrival of a bill to strengthen the independence of ODA. On 25 February, the Autorité delivered an opinion on your preliminary draft and the least we can say is that it is far from being positive. ODA states that the preliminary draft "threats its independence and functioning". In particular, it denounces the introduction of parliamentary interference in the internal organisation of ODA, the conditioning of the renewal of the mandates of its directors to a positive assessment by the House of Representatives and the risk of creating an "early obedience" phenomenon within the Authority. One notable problem, which we have already denounced, is the abolition of the mandate of the members of the APD Knowledge Centre without following the legal procedure for doing so. The Court of Justice of the European Union has already had the opportunity to find that ending the mandates of members of an Authority by changing the rules of the game along the way was contrary to European law. This has led to a condemnation of Hungary. Secretary of State, what is the status of the bill and when will it be tabled? Can you give me the broad outlines of the reform that you are considering? How do you respond to the objections of the Data Protection Authority and in particular to the violation of European law consisting of the early revocation of members of the APD Knowledge Centre, without using the legal procedures provided for that purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u4	Mr Minister, when is the preliminary draft approved by the Council of Ministers to comply with the recommendations of the privacy law evaluation report submitted to the relevant committee? Were the observations of the Court of Auditors taken into account? What deadline do you and your fellow minister want solved at the GBA?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u5	Madam Chair, following the Privacy Assessment Report that I introduced to you in November 2021, you will have noticed that we have begun discussions on a draft bill to amend the Act of December 3, 2017, establishing the Data Protection Authority (DPA). The evaluation had stressed the need to strengthen, as a matter of priority, the governance of ODA and the independent exercise of its mandates and powers. However, this preliminary draft law is intended to respond to the recommendations of this report and is based on three main areas: strengthening the functioning of ODA, strengthening its independence and strengthening its pragmatic approach and sectoral expertise. Should I remind you that these recommendations come out of an evaluation of more than 40 diverse and varied opinions on the evaluation of the Privacy Act? I have taken note of the bill to which you refer in your first question. My approach is more global, based on the three axes mentioned above. The draft bill goes beyond the bill that only dealt with the role of external experts. In particular, a general guarantee was introduced with regard to the independence of ODA, in that experts would no longer be able to participate in any decision-making process in the exercise of their mandate. In other words, they will not have a deliberative channel and are not allowed to co-edit draft opinions or recommendations. The preliminary draft law was discussed in the Council of Ministers at first reading and was the subject of a number of comments from ODA, as you said, but the Council of State has been slowing down. In particular, the ODA opinions indicate the elements that require some attention, which I agree with you, and in particular the role of Parliament with regard to the strategic plan for ODA: should Parliament, in essence, take note of it or go further by endorsing it? Another aspect concerns the amendment of the Act, which should apply during the term of office. Indeed, the European Court of Justice has already held that it is not appropriate to change the law during the term of office. However, the objectives and context of this legislative amendment must be taken into account and, in this case, considering that we are amending the law in order to guarantee the independence of ODA, the strengthening covered by the draft law corresponds to the wishes of the European Commission itself. In order to ensure this, I have taken the initiative of consulting the European Commission to ensure that this bill will be in line with the desired improvements. In terms of timing, work is continuing and the text should be submitted to the Council of Ministers very soon at second reading before arriving on Parliament's table, which, I am sure, will continue the work in a relevant and transparent manner, in collaboration with all stakeholders. A question by Mrs Goethals concerned fines. I'm sending it back to my written answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for these answers. We see a little clearer about the arrangement between the majority's bill and your bill, which seems to be meant to make it obsolete. Good! We will pay close attention to strengthening the independence and functioning of the Data Protection Authority (DPA). We will pay attention to the fact that the experts have no decision-making power. We saw elsewhere how advisory roles could eventually occupy more space than expected. We will also see in the new architecture where Mr Robben will find himself, whose place has become our barometer in this area. We will be delighted to see what legislation the government will eventually give birth to. I welcome the idea of consulting the European Commission. This may save us some bad surprises, as we have had before.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, you say you have consulted the European Commission, which is a very good thing. Could you give us his answer? As far as your approach and the purpose of this bill are concerned, European case law prevents us from changing the law along the way, especially to dismiss or relieve certain members of their mandate. Given that the main objective of this project was to meet the European Commission's requirements for conflicts of interest or legal incompatibilities, I believe that, since Mr Robben's resignation, which was the main target of the Commission, it has lost some of its relevance. In addition, a procedure is under way in accordance with Article 45 of the 2017 Law, which also aims to respond to this request from the European Commission. The question arises as to the very existence of this bill, especially with all the criticisms that have been made about the independence of ODA. When an organ such as ODA knows that Parliament or the Executive has the opportunity to change the rules during the match, what independence can be guaranteed? There will always be this sword of Damocles above the ODA, that if they do not function as expected of them, they will be exposed to a change of law or to a change of legislation to punish them for their wrong decision. In terms of guaranteeing the independence of ODA, I believe that this is not the right way to proceed, especially since under the current law, different approaches are necessary if someone is to lift their mandate. There are Article 45 and other means. So I always ask myself the question of the relevance of this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, I can only endorse the remarks made by my colleagues. Everything is also followed with argus eyes, as you can see here. I did not get an answer to my specific question which dates back to 31 January. When will we finally get to see that design so we can study it? When will it be discussed in committee? It's now the end of March and we're told it's coming. Then there will be a second reading. You understand that this answer does not satisfy us, the situation is pressing and I do not understand why this is not being done more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, I refer to the questions that have been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u10	Mr. Secretary of State, Le Monde has published an article which states that the National Commission for Information Technology & Freedoms (CNIL) finds that the data of French Internet users are transferred to the United States in violation of articles 44 et seq. of the European GDPR. The CNIL, a French data protection association, has called on a French website manager to use Google Analytics. The reason is that the U.S. multinational transfers our personal data to the U.S. without sufficient supervision. There is still a risk that U.S. intelligence services will have access to our data! Mr Secretary of State, given that ODA must enforce the same European regulation and that Google Analytics is also operating in Belgium, is it possible for such notices to be applied to Belgian website managers? What have you planned to enforce the protection of our data by the US multinational?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, the Data Protection Authority informs me that it cannot provide detailed information on specific investigations that may be ongoing against certain bodies. However, she has informed me that her inspection service is in fact seized of several files dealing with this broad issue. After the inspection phase, the Litigation Chamber of ODA will still have to take a decision, which will be published on its website and will therefore be able to be consulted. With regard to Google Analytics in particular, ODA has not yet taken a public position. Mr Boukili, a formal notice such as that implemented by CNIL would nevertheless, according to ODA, be theoretically possible. Whether small, medium or large, all companies are subject to compliance with the GDPR. All of them may be sanctioned by ODA in the event of a violation found. Mr Gilissen, like any other data controller, Meta must comply with the GDPR. At the beginning of February, Meta announced that it may no longer be able to offer its services in Europe because the European Court has annulled the US-Europe Data Exchange Agreement, the so-called Privacy Shield. So far, this threat has not been implemented. Moreover, in terms of the awareness and accountability of these companies, Belgian ODA provides advice to data processors when they wish to launch a new high-risk processing operation. ODA has also made significant efforts in support of data controllers, for example through specific awareness-raising projects for small and medium-sized enterprises or data protection delegates in cooperation with academic partners and/or stakeholders. The creation of a European cloud would certainly be why I am in favour of enabling data protection authorities to directly monitor the use of European data, thus avoiding the need to negotiate international data protection agreements with third countries with very different legal and political regimes. If the processing takes place entirely within the European Union, it will in any case have the advantage of avoiding difficulties in international transfers. Moreover, since the Court of Justice of the European Union requires third countries to ensure a substantially equivalent level of data protection at European level, it is not easy to reach an agreement with these third countries. In conclusion, I believe that the consequences of the Schrems II judgment should be drawn up and that the case-law of the Court of Justice should be applied. Until an agreement has been reached between the European Union and the United States, I call for an alternative solution. It is the responsibility of each user of the programme concerned to take responsibility for continuing to use it or not and to take responsibility for its consequences in the event of an investigation or complaint lodged with the Data Protection Authority by a data subject. Finally, it should be noted that if ODA receives a complaint about the use of the software, it is not excluded that it may impose a sanction on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u12	Mr Secretary of State, Belgium has not yet taken a position on Google Analytics. In other countries, it seems that this can be done much faster. However, I would call for urgent work to be carried out so that this can be done much faster and more efficiently in Belgium too. As far as Meta is concerned, it is clear that we need to ensure that our data stays in Europe as much as possible and that we are much less dependent on the big tech from the US. Above all, we must not let those big tech companies put pressure on us. Here we determine the rules and not the big tech companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I hear you're open to a formal challenge if ODA gives the same opinion as that of CNIL. I hope that ODA will take up this matter without a complaint being filed. Indeed, ODA can take initiatives; it would be a good thing for it to do so in the light of this issue. If there has been a formal notice in France, it is that there is a matter. It would therefore be interesting to investigate this matter especially when we know that the Schrems II judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union invalidated the Privacy Shield which existed vis-à-vis the United States and which allowed the transfer of data from that country. The Court considers that data protection in the United States is not as secure as that guaranteed by the GDPR. The requirements are not identical. Such data can be found in intelligence services illegally and without respect for the right to privacy. It would be interesting to look at this issue. I hope that ODA will take this into account and that you will take the necessary action once this opinion is delivered.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u14	Madam President, I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u15	Firstly, it should be noted that IAB Europe has announced that it will appeal against the decision of the Data Protection Authority. In its decision, the Data Protection Authority found that the current version of the TCF does not provide a valid basis for the collection and processing of user preferences. This means that the underlying processing of debt instruments, which is therefore dependent on these preferences, cannot, in principle, take place anymore. The GBA Disputes Chamber has imposed comprehensive remedies on IAB Europe which the organisation will have to submit to the GBA in the form of an action plan. Once these measures have been adopted, IAB Europe will have six months to implement them. Until then, the GDPR principles will continue to apply to the website owner. If the GBA receives a complaint about TCF-related aspects in which publishers of websites and apps play a role, it is not excluded that the GBA imposes a sanction on these publishers. As far as the number of Belgian websites currently using a TCF is concerned, I do not have exact figures. According to some NGOs, this would amount to 80% of European websites. Finally, organisations and companies currently using the TCF on their websites or in their applications can already take steps to align the associated processing of personal data with the GDPR. On the other hand, following the adoption of its Action Plan, IAB Europe has had six months to implement the corrective measures imposed by the GBA. After this period there will in principle no longer be time to switch to a new system.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u16	If companies use IAB's framework, they are more of a disadvantaged party to this story. It is also important that they should not be fined when using such a framework. I also understand that IAB Europe has appealed against the ruling of the Data Protection Authority. So the whole story will still get a tail.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u17	Madam Chair, Secretary of State, the work of the special commission on the colonial past has been going on and on the issue of archives in recent days. The question of access to these archives comes up several times during our work and comes up against the rules of the GDPR, particularly with regard to the search for Métis children born during the period of Belgian colonization in the Congo and sent to Belgium against the views of mothers, because the existence of the Métis would undermine the policy of apartheid led by the Belgian administration in the Congo. The experts we heard mentioned that it would be possible to make an exception to the rules of the GDPR on humanitarian grounds and pleaded in this regard. I'm not a lawyer. Mr Secretary of State, do you intend to amend the law of 30 July 2018 on the protection of personal data in order to include a specific derogation allowing the processing of data for archival, genealogical or historical purposes, as provided for in Article 89 of the GDPR, in order to facilitate research into the Belgian colonial past, including the search for Métis children born during the period of colonization? Or should this first involve a change at European level? What are the obstacles to this change today? Do you know whether this type of derogation already exists in other European countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u18	Madam Chair, Secretary of State, the commission on the colonial past is conducting a great deal of hearings. We had sessions on the hearing of Métis people's associations and also various organizations of our state in charge of archives management. It was explained to us that since Métis people often did not have records of their filiation, there was a problem in providing them with access to records that would allow them to establish their filiation or to find out who their parents were, often their mother remained in the Congo at the time of colonization. It has been explained to us that the European Regulation refers in its recitals, although it would not be in the operative part of the text, to the possibility for Member States to provide in the law for derogations from privacy and the protection of personal data, justified on humanitarian grounds. In the case before us, the first question is whether there are really cases of refusal by our administrations, of access to archives by Métis people or of Métis files. If so, do you have any figures on this? Are these refusals caused by a problem of misinterpretation of the privacy law or the European Regulation? In other words, would it not be necessary to amend the Privacy Act to include this possibility of derogation on humanitarian grounds? Furthermore, since the European Regulation seems to be more focused on war-related issues related to Nazism, etc., is there any reflection in your administration to extend it to this whole part of the colonial past relating to Métis people? Indeed, I know that an evaluation, a reflection on this matter is under way. It would therefore be interesting to see whether, in considering this issue of access to archives, changes were needed to extend privacy exemptions. In my view, the question of proportionality will also be raised.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all, Mr President, thank you for reminding me of the need to speak slowly to facilitate the work of translators because I am used to talking very quickly, which I ask them to apologize for. So I'm going to try to slow down my speech rhythm. The question of the mestizos torn from their mothers by the Belgian administration is an important and painful one. On 4 April 2019, the then Prime Minister presented to the House the apologies of the Belgian government by recognizing, I quote, "the targeted segregation of the Métis under the colonial administration of the Belgian Congo and the Ruanda-Urundi and the policy of forced abduction." Now, every effort must be made to enable the Métis to re-establish their roots and access the archives for this purpose, as foreseen in the "Metis Resolution" adopted on March 29, 2018. Although the Privacy Act of July 30, 2018 already contains Title IV on processing for archival, scientific, historical and statistical purposes, which was taken to implement section 89 of the GDPR, there appears to be an obstacle to privacy regulation. The purpose of this provision is only to limit the rights of the data subject in certain cases, e.g. to have access to his own data or to be able to delete his data. The current law does not take into account the issue of access to archives to reconstruct families dislodged by colonial policies relating to Métis children. The question here is clearly one of consent. To process information about a person and thus, for example, transmit data about parents, a sister, a half-sister, a brother, the GDPR requires that the person whose data are transmitted consents to it. However, how to obtain such consent for applicants when they are unaware of the existence of other family members. Today, in order to transmit data without the consent of the data subject, the GDPR requires a new law. As part of the evaluation of the Privacy Act, one of the conclusions was the lack of a legal framework to respond to exceptional situations that involve or require the processing of personal data. It is clear that the situation of the Métis snatched from their families demonstrates the need to complement the Privacy Act. As you know, I began the review of the Privacy Act earlier this year. I will therefore pay particular attention to this issue of derogation on humanitarian grounds. There is a strong need to address this gap, particularly in the case of Métis children abducted from their families. Secondly, with regard to the question on the number of refusals to consult archives of Métis records, the research team that was responsible for the research project following the "resolution-metis" has, since September 2019, processed 82 requests for research. Of the 82 requests for research, 3 people were unable to consult a half-sister's file, one brother's file because of current privacy laws. These are persons for whom a sister or brother was identified during the investigation and the applicant was unaware of their existence. This obviously leads to a heartbreaking situation where it was not possible to inform the applicant that he had a brother or sister. Despite this low number of refusals, the human impact is extremely high, given the fact that the mapping team is being transferred more and more archive files and that more and more archive files from the FPS archives in Africa Foreign Affairs are being transferred, allowing the team to identify more files. It is therefore not inconceivable that this number will only increase. I am not aware of the laws of other countries on this subject, but the GDPR allows Member States to provide for further processing of personal data for archival purposes, for example: "in order to provide precise information on political behaviour under the regimes of the former States". I am therefore confident that we can find a solution for all those children who, 60 years ago, were torn from their mothers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u20	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. This issue is really important because it has a terrible impact on the victims today, like these colonial Métis who are being denied access to their own lives, to their own history. It is really urgent to put an end to this institutional violence. You have to admit it! I mean that this must go through a new law and that you will pay particular attention to this specific need. This is excellent news and I will obviously be very attentive to it. We can't wait any longer, for 60 years after the facts, time is our enemy. Soon there will be no more fathers or mothers to find their children, so we must not hang out.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u21	Mr Secretary of State, you were right to recall that it was Prime Minister Charles Michel who apologized on behalf of the Belgian Government for the Métis people who had been abducted, mainly to their mothers, and brought to Belgium. It was very important to continue to follow up on the "metis resolution", which had been adopted unanimously. We will support you in the search for solutions to the privacy law, in order to allow everyone to have access to their roots and genealogy and to be able to find their parents.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u22	Mr. Secretary of State, we learn from the press that Proximus transfers international call data to its American subsidiary TeleSign via another subsidiary, BICS. According to the company, the aim would be to profile the telephone numbers in order to detect fraud. Internal and external experts at Proximus protest against this situation, which is not in line with the GDPR. Indeed, this data is transmitted to the United States without any customer consent or information. This practice is also contrary to the Schrems II case law, which prohibits data transfers from Europe to the United States. Many questions arise. Why is not client consent requested? On what legal basis do these treatments take place? Are the data sold to TeleSign? What is the nature and manner of the trade agreement between these companies? I would like to know your reaction to this situation. What is your position on these different issues? Will you remind Proximus to order and invite him to fully respect the GDPR and Schrems II jurisprudence? Can you give us more details about these data processing processes?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u23	Mr President, my position is clear. Everyone must respect the GDPR and Schrems II case law. I would remind you that the GDPR states that, in principle, a cross-border flow can only take place to a third State if that third State is recognised by the European Commission as offering a substantially equivalent level of protection to the European level of protection. However, following the annulment of the Privacy Shield by the Court of Justice of the European Union, the United States is no longer recognized as offering a substantially equivalent level of protection. Therefore, the GDPR only allows a data controller to export data to the United States if it provides specific safeguards to ensure compliance with EU data protection rules. Such guarantees may, for example, be the use of standard contractual clauses decided by the European Commission. One of the guarantees included in these standard contractual clauses is, for example, the obligation of the controller to check flow-by-flow that the legislation of the third State does not allow the authorities of the third State to access the transferred data. Proximus can therefore transfer data to its subsidiaries in the United States only if it offers these specific guarantees. Finally, I will not teach you anything by telling you that the law gives the Data Protection Authority the power to control, or even punish, those responsible for the processing of personal data. It is therefore up to ODA to verify whether Proximus has met the above conditions. As you well know, I do not have the legal competence to interfere with the competence of ODA or even to call Proximus to order.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u24	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I understand that ODA can take the case and that you are not here to replace ODA, but you are Secretary of State for Privacy Data Protection. There is a danger here. So I wonder what you're putting in place to react to this situation. We are facing a violation of the GDPR. Since the third state you are talking about is not recognized as a protector of privacy in the same way as the GDPR, we fall, as you say, into Schrems II case law. So, if you don't, I'm going to grab the ODA on this file myself. Maybe I'll file a complaint for this matter to be dealt with. We're still talking about a serious situation. Our personal data – telephones – are transferred to a company of which nothing is known. I wonder why the people concerned are not at least informed, why their consent is not requested. These are the basic rules of the GDPR that are not respected by a company whose state is the largest shareholder and whose you are here, as Secretary of State, the representative. I therefore think that there is more to be done on your part than leaving all the expertise to ODA. I hope ODA will do its job, but everyone has to do its own – we as parliamentarians, you on behalf of the government and ODA as the supervisory authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u25	We will end our questioning session and resume with questions for the Minister of Justice shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u26	Minister, an investigation by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists published in Le Soir reveals that the Swedish company Ericsson paid the Islamic State (EI) to be able to transport its equipment to the territory of the terrorist group. The telecom giant has been active in this country since the 1960s. Its activity really took off after the war, thanks to the public investments of the new Iraqi government. Then the multinational had to face the arrival of Daesh. It could have been believed that the rise of the terrorist group would put an end to the affairs of the Swedish multinational. Several executives of the company proposed, moreover, to stop the ongoing projects in Mosul, the territory in the hands of the EI. However, Ericsson's management decided otherwise. No moral principle stops the thirst for profit. Thus, the company sent an engineer to meet with Daesh to ask the terrorist group for permission to continue the construction. The investigators who conducted the multinational's internal audit report that it is "a potential illicit financing of terrorism to carry out transport operations for Ericsson". In addition, they also reveal practices of corruption or embezzlement in 14 countries, including Iraq, by Ericsson. The company offered works of art, iPads, Montblanc watches or pens, as well as trips to Spain and Sweden to some of its customers to obtain markets. Minister, Ericsson is working with Telenet to deploy the 5G network in Belgium. Are there any sanctions against the multinational?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u27	Mr President, as your colleague D'Amico rightly felt, this question falls within the competence of Minister De Sutter, who already answered on this subject two weeks ago. My colleague referred to me in her answer to the question of possible sanctions against the multinational. If you are referring here to criminal sanctions that our country would impose, I can tell you that, for the time being, no criminal investigation is under way at the federal prosecutor's office. Given the rules of extraterritoriality, we can ask ourselves whether we are ultimately competent in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answer. We are talking about a company suspected or accused of financing terrorism that we fought against, which we went to bomb on the spot, against which our soldiers fought and which this multinational has financed. Today, it operates on our territory. I do not understand the relevance of the principle of extraterritoriality. I heard you more assertive when it came to other companies that seemed tedious. Here, is there a demonstration of Ericsson's involvement in the financing of terrorism and we're still holding our arms crossed? That still seems very limited to me as a reaction, Mr. Minister of Justice. We are here to ensure justice in our country, to ensure respect for the principles and values we uphold. We have heard for the last few days and in recent weeks all the emphasis on these values and the need to defend them at all costs and, when it comes to a multinational, these values stop. Your answer, minister, surprises me a little bit. I expected a little more virulence from you. I hope that in the future you will take up the matter in a more relevant way and not only by referring to a principle that I do not see as relevant today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u29	Minister, last week there was very good news in the press: after a pilot project involving a stalking alert in Ghent, that stalking alert was introduced in East and West Flanders. When's the rest gonna follow?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u30	We first tested the stalking alarm in Ghent and have now decided to extend it to the provinces of East and West Flanders. The stalking alarms are now distributed to the different police zones. In order for such alarm systems to be put in place throughout the country, we must first set up an advisory committee. This will be done under the coordination of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. The Committee will consist of representatives of the Institute, Justice and Home Affairs, Equal Opportunities and people of the College of Attorney General, the Executive Board of the Administrative Police, the Permanent Commission of Local Police, representatives of the services of the Communities and of the administrations of the respective provinces. The Institute will act as a national project coordinator. It is the ideal partner for this, given their expertise in partner violence and stalking as well as their experience in the national implementation of care centres following sexual violence. In concrete terms, the monitoring committee will prepare the national implementation of the stalking alarms in 2022 and prepare a policy plan. The Committee will also identify the managers responsible and develop training programmes for the actors concerned. The goal is to activate the stalking alarm at other locations of the country in 2023.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u31	That was a very clear answer. Then why wasn't the guidance committee necessary for East and West Flanders? That's a big part of the country and not just Ghent, isn't it? For those provinces it can be started, but not for the other provinces?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u32	Mrs Bury, in East and West Flanders, after the start of the test in Ghent, we found immediately engaged policemen to vouch for the stalking alert. The risk was a little too great if we immediately roll out the project nationally. One can announce such an alarm, but we must ensure that it works. That is why we have considered it necessary to work through an advisory committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u33	Madam Chair, Minister, the RTF's investigation on the issue of property administrators' control has been very strong on me, and I guess I'm not the only one. This competence attributed entirely to justices of the peace is of crucial importance in ensuring the safety of the most vulnerable people in our society. This control is not efficient in some cases. This is an alarming finding. The situation is all the more worrying in the judicial cantons, which have numerous nursing and nursing homes and psychiatric institutions. The number of administrative files is growing and, of course, the coming years will see these requests increase further. In these cantons, it is clear that the justice of the peace does not have the means in terms of personnel and computer tools to ensure that control in a strict and operational manner. It is scandalous that lawyers can, with impunity, for many years benefit from the vulnerability of individuals and divert funds to their benefit. It is therefore necessary to find solutions to secure these people and prevent crooks from giving free rein to their activities. Mr Minister, should we not grant additional means to justices of the peace? Should it not be possible for the latter to have additional clerks specialized in these matters? What is your reaction to this reality? What measures do you intend to take to address this impossibility of dealing with this large and growing number of cases? What computer software could be made available to justices of the peace to improve the effectiveness of their controls? How can justices of the peace be required to verify the number of appointments and take over by an administrator?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u34	Dear colleague, the Act of 17 March 2013 provided for control mechanisms for directors to avoid certain abuses on their part. In particular, the law provides for the transmission of information to the person of trust and in case of abuse, another administrator attached to the protected person. The Act creates a clear separation between the property of the protected person and the property of the administrator. Similarly, it increases reporting obligations. In the event of suspicion of misconduct, the judge may replace the judge or change his powers. A number of acts that it poses in violation of the legal obligation are automatically void. Finally, the Civil Code recalls that liability may be incurred in the event of mismanagement. Records management has been computerized since 1 June 2021. From now on, all professional administrators and magistrates must use the Central Register of Personal Protection. The Register shall contain all documents or information which enable the management, monitoring and processing of judicial proceedings. This computerized database is designed to ease the workload of justices of the peace, speed up the process and, above all, improve the quality of administration through a centralized data collection mechanism. As established by the Supreme Council of Justice, as demonstrated by regular letters addressed to me and the issue to which you refer, the administration can give rise to abuses. However, these criticisms cannot be generalized. Sometimes some acts are misunderstood by family members, who do not always have access to information because they are not trusted persons. It should not be forgotten that judicial protection is in the interests of the protected person, who is no longer able to manage his or her assets alone. It is with the objective of representing or assisting the person in this management that the administrator is appointed. But it is not tolerable that some administrators abuse their position of trust. What is missing is a clear legal framework for directors. An administrator must have certain qualities that will contribute to more effective, more integrated and humane management. I therefore appointed a group of experts last December to set out the main directions for a reform that will govern the function of administrator. Here's the outline. Professional administrators will be subject to a number of conditions before they can practise, through an accreditation system. They will have to be trained before they can be designated, particularly in non-legal matters, in order to make their intervention more humane and to ensure their availability to the target audience. They will have to demonstrate that they have the integrity to perform this function. For lawyers, who make up more than 95 per cent of professional administrators, advice from the stick will be required. They will have to follow an accreditation procedure in which justices of the peace will have their say. Once approved, administrators will be required to undergo ongoing training in order to continue to be appointed. They will also have to demonstrate that they are sufficiently available for protected persons. Finally, administrators will be subject to a strict and centralized disciplinary regime. One of the sanctions will be the abolition of approval. This will ensure that administrators who do not properly perform their duties in one file are dismissed and cannot continue their duties in other files. As soon as I have received the conclusions of this working group, my administration will be in charge of drafting a draft legislation that I hope will be able to submit to the government this summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u35	Minister, thank you for the completeness of your answer, and above all for the actions you have taken, which you are putting forward and which you will pose. With regard to case management, the system has been computerized since the summer of 2021. As for the status of administrator and all the conditions that are imposed, it seems to me that there is one point missing in your reform, in order to ensure better control. Nor is the idea, as you said, to say that they are all crooks. But you have to be able to spot the crooks among these administrators. There may be a lack of, or in any case the means of, more extensive oversight of judges. You introduced control via computer. Should not the monitoring be carried out by personnel specifically responsible for those missions? I was referring to the trail of clerks specializing in these matters. Indeed, there is less risk that an administrator will derail with the conditions you impose in terms of integrity, approvals to be received, etc. However, a more regular check must be carried out. I am not throwing stones at justices of the peace, but the many tasks that are theirs and the numbers that we know in the judiciary make them not know how to do it optimally. I therefore think that there is a small part missing from your reform, and that is the additional help to the judges. I'm talking about human resources. I thank you for your interest in this matter; this was already the case before the issue, although it must surely put a little pressure on the issues that need to be moved forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u36	There is no miracle solution to this problem, especially in view of the many unfilled vacancies in the private and public sector. In 2020 201 vacancies were published in the Belgian Official Journal; 125 were filled. 267 vacancies were published in 2021. At that time 172 persons were appointed by the Supreme Court of Justice (HRJ). This means that in 2021 we have appointed 47 magistrates more than in 2020. Candidates for these places are either magistrates who wish to change jobs within the magistrate; or judicial trainees who have completed their internship; or graduates of the HRJ exams. All legal trainees start training at the same time, on 1 October each time. Two years later, also on 1 October, they meet the conditions. Almost all trainees who completed their training in October 2021 have already been designated by the HRJ, or are postulating. At the same time, candidates who have passed the professional examination also fulfil the conditions for postulating at the same time. The laureates of that 2021 exam were able to postulate from June 2021; many of them have been nominated in the meantime. As a result, the recruitment reserve is currently almost exhausted. This also explains why the latest publications have not been completed. There are examinations currently in progress. Soon there will be new candidates. I can already say that the number of candidates has increased: from 253 in 2020 to 294 in 2021 and 345 in 2022. The latter is crucial, as we want to attract more candidates. Those numbers prove that's coming along.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u37	Miracle solutions are never there. It is a good thing that there were 47 magistrates in 2021. That is a small step forward and hopefully that evolution will continue. Sooner or later, the vacancies will be filled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u38	Minister, I refer again to my question. I ask this question because it concerns my region. In our local newspapers and also in the national press, it was pointed out that it is not so easy to find a basis for acquiring the hotel Falco. In the majority of local government, including your own party, there are still discussions about this and there is little support for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u39	Madam President, the hotel Falco has not yet been purchased. We look at different options. Meanwhile, another building was offered in Meise. We're investigating that piste, too. That's why we're in consultation with the mayor. Of course, we prefer good cooperation with the local government. We prefer a 'go' of the municipality concerned, but we must remain realistic. Everyone is in favour of implementing the short sentences and the concept of detention homes, as long as that is not in their own city or municipality. We are always taking a path of dialogue to see what the needs are, but at some point we will make a decision. Hotel Falco is almost ready for boarding and could be put into service quickly. We understand that there is concern, but a detention home is a positive project and increases the safety of society, by effectively implementing sanctions and reducing repeated crime. As far as your last question is concerned, we offer the same cooperation to every local government. We are certainly willing to give information sessions for the people and the locals, in which we explain to the neighborhood what a detention house is right and what that entails. A brochure is made per site, which is delivered to the residents.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u40	Mr Minister, we are also following up on this dossier. It's interesting that there might be a second track under investigation. After all, we have always said that we are naturally in favour of detention homes. However, there must be good locations. It is also very important that there is support. It is good that there are brochures, but they may come a little too late, as there is already commotion about, and resistance to, the interpretation of the hotel as a detention house. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u41	Question No 55026306C by Mrs Sophie De Wit is postponed until next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u42	Madam President, I will make only one intervention. I'm not going to read the question and the inquiry. Minister, we were approached by Life for Brussels, an association to help victims of attacks, which sent a letter to the Prime Minister on 24 March 2021 - a year ago - in order to explain the difficulties faced by victims of attacks and to take stock of the past five years. Despite two reminders, on 11 April and 25 October 2021, this letter remained unanswered. It has now been almost a year since the Prime Minister's response to this aid organisation for the victims of the Brussels attacks was not forthcoming. Yet last year, during the commemorations, Mr. De Croo had stated that the answer to the attacks "is in the bonds that unite us, in being as close as possible to each other, to gain humanity together, helping the other to overcome his pain, to endure the void. It is by supporting each other, looking at each other's eyes, staying close that we can see all the good things in us and in our society." And he added: "If there have been shortcomings, they will have to be improved. No one can be left behind." It's about putting the statements into practice! In the statement, it's beautiful, it's great! Solidarity, unity and failure must be addressed. But nothing translates into practice. The ASBL Life for Brussels faces funding difficulties. She can only rely on the overwhelming energy of her volunteers to help the victims of the attacks, but volunteer involvement has its limits. We ask the Prime Minister to take charge of this matter personally. It is for this reason that my inquiry was initially addressed to him. Six years after the attacks, the Belgian State must support this association with dignity so that it can continue its public service missions. I was speaking to the Prime Minister, particularly to put him in front of his statements. What are they for, if he is not able to arrange an appointment to receive the Life for Brussels association that has been waiting for a reply to his letter for a year? Minister, can you commit yourself to the Prime Minister's response to Life for Brussels' request for a meeting almost a year after the first solicitation and to a meeting with him, so that his words can be transformed into deeds? Can you commit yourself to taking the necessary steps to ensure that the association can continue its missions, so that no one is left on the side, as the Prime Minister promised last year, during the commemorations?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u43	Minister, I have a question about the organisation of the assistance process. I understand that the start of that process is foreseen for October 2022. You know that we have always been in favour of not having such a heavy procedure carried out through an assistive process, but that decision has now been taken. It's gonna be very hard on the organization. With 30,000 debt questions, almost 1,000 bourgeois parties and an estimated duration of 6 months, one sometimes even speaks of 9 months, this is a process of unseen magnitude. You had announced that you would take legislative action to make this case as manageable as possible. So far, however, we have not heard anything, and the process is due to start in October. Is the start of the process still foreseen for 10 October 2022? If not, why the delay? Then what's the new date? What changes do you want to make? When will you come to Parliament with this? Time is short if we have to amend a law in this area. What measures still need to be taken organizationally in order to manage the process in a practical way? What is the state of play with regard to the additional recruitment of security personnel and the establishment of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u44	Madam President, Minister, I am not going to go back to the context, namely the follow-up to the recommendations made by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the attacks. According to the information provided to us by the task force you are chairing, of the 14 recommendations concerning the care of the victims of the attacks, 10 would be finalized and 4 would be in progress. Except that in reality there were not 14 recommendations, as is suggested, but rather 16 major themes of recommendations with several recommendations for each theme. Minister, how does the government justify the fact that six years after the attacks, several recommendations are still being implemented? Can you give us a precise timetable for the implementation of the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry which, unfortunately, are still not? Then there are the recommendations presented in your report as finalized when they are not. For example, the one-stop shop. It is well known that this window, which was to be a window of assistance, will be a window of information and will only concern potential new victims of attacks, to the exclusion of the victims of 22 March, who are nevertheless covered by the work of the commission of inquiry. There is also the inter-federal task force, which is presented as a successful outcome, while few of the working groups within it have been successful: whether it is the exemption of inheritance rights, the benefits of the victim's bombing card, the unique expertise of insurance, or children who are still not taken care of. With regard to psychological support, the victims did not receive any information about the treatment they could receive as a matter of urgency. As for the information and compensation of victims of foreign nationality, this recommendation is also not implemented. Foreign victims are still discriminated against, like a British victim who has been paid his disability pension in the form of arrears more than a year later; or your bill simply excludes non-resident foreign victims. And then, too, and we have asked you several times, Minister, that not all associations representing victims are recognized and supported in the same way, both administratively and financially. Yet that is what you promise through your report. We know that your government has financially supported the V-Europe association, but not the Life4Brussels association, which must therefore count on a very small subsidy from the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. Minister, is the government satisfied with the recommendations whose status is considered to be "finalized"? Would it not be time to set up a real special committee to follow up on the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry on terrorist attacks in order to discuss them calmly in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all to answer Mr Boukili's first and fourth question yesterday, it has been six years since horrific attacks were committed in our country. The consequences for the victims are devastating, as they are traumatized for life. The Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry has shown that the care of victims is much to be desired. The previous government had begun to work on the subject; the current government is continuing this task. Since becoming Minister of Justice, I have received many questions from this committee about the victims. I took these issues to my heart, especially because I myself have been in contact with several victims, as well as with the two victims' associations. I have always answered in detail the many questions asked here about them. I refer, among other things, and not exclusively, to the detailed answer I gave to this committee on 9 June last year. In particular, I explained why we chose to subsidize a victim coach project. It is therefore wrong to state that the request for maintenance expressed remained unanswered. My firm participated in two meetings with Life4Brussels. Another recently took place in the presence of the offices of the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister Dermagne and Secretary of State De Bleeker. The Prime Minister is also particularly concerned about the fate of the victims of the 22 March attacks. During the commemorations, he also spoke directly with them about their experiences and difficulties. I was a witness to that. The Government closely monitors the implementation of the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry through the Strategic Committee on Intelligence and Security and ensures that the various Ministers provide a coordinated response to the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. It is important that Parliament, the population and the victims directly concerned are aware of the measures the Government is taking in this area. In the meantime, I've met the three victim coaches three times already. I've talked to them before. Their work is not simple, far from it! Our conversations have made me even more convinced of the added value of this project, always in the interests of the victims. Mrs Rohonyi, Mr Boukili, through the Prime Minister, as I announced in this committee, a detailed report on the implementation of the recommendations has been sent to Parliament. This monitoring of implementation has also been carried out in detail for the Justice Committee. I am, of course, prepared to study this issue in depth. I let Parliament take charge of the implementation and can certainly testify that many departments and offices have given the best of themselves to implement these recommendations conscientiously. Where these have not yet been fully implemented, there is usually an explanation for this. Madam President, on your first question, we are all aware that the trial against the perpetrators of the attacks is an important step for the victims and for enlargement throughout the country. All actors, the FPS Justice, the federal prosecutor, the prosecutor, the court of appeal and the police, are committed to ensuring that the trial takes place in the best possible circumstances, there can be no doubt about that. The organisation and planning of the process are in the hands of the assistant chairman. The following dates were determined by decision. On 10 September 2022 the preliminary session is scheduled, on 10 October the composition of the jury, on 13 October the actual start of the trial. On your second question, the second draft law to make Justice more human, faster and stronger, which will shortly be submitted to Parliament, provides for the possibility of a process to be audiovisually recorded and postponed to the civil parties and all the victims who have asked for access. In practice, the decision is in the hands of the chairman. The process of assassinating the Paris attacks provided the opportunity to listen to the process remotely with a delay of 30 minutes. In the past, but also in view of the process of the attacks of 22 March 2016, the jury was already extended from 12 to 24 alternates, given the long duration of the trial. It was also possible to hold the trial at a location other than the Palace of Justice in Poelaertplein. On your third question, given the level of security required, the size and duration of the assistance process will be organised in a dedicated courthouse, in particular NATO's former headquarters. Since 1 September 2020 the public contract for the multiservice supplier has also been launched, which was awarded by the FPS Justice on 25 August. It is the subject of the support services and the facility management for the organisation of the process. In addition to basic monitoring and maintenance work, the installation works for the mentioned assistance process are also ongoing. It can be expected that these installation works will be completed in mid-April. The Justice site will therefore be ready in time. Taking into account the particular importance of the dossier and the size of the project, a professional organisation consisting of the Steering Committee and various working groups was developed in consultation with all key actors. The Steering Committee shall be chaired by the Chairman of the FPS Justice and shall be composed of all interested parties. The purpose of the Steering Committee is to take tactical and functional decisions to ensure the progress of the process and to respect planning and timing. The working group has a co-chairship that is observed by both the Crisis Centre and the FPS Justice. The purpose of this Safety Working Group is to analyse and discuss in detail the various security issues so that a concrete and integrated operative can be defined. The Presidency of the Infrastructure, Organisation and Communication Working Party shall be held by the Federal Office. They do this in cooperation with the Infrastructure Directorate of DG RO. On the one hand, it is the task of the Infrastructure Working Group to analyse and discuss in detail the various issues relating to the design and equipment of the site, so as to develop concrete solutions. On the other hand, it aims to replace a coordinated organisation, as well as to define a clear communication strategy, both internally and externally. The working groups and steering groups in question shall meet at regular intervals. Their work is also on schedule for the start of the process in the autumn. I think it is certainly possible, Madam President, to visit the Justitia site together with the members of the Justice Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u46	Minister, I do not know where to start so much to question in your answer. First of all, you could have told me whether or not the Prime Minister was going to respond to Life for Brussels' requests. However, I have quoted the Prime Minister's statements, and I think that this lack of consideration is hard enough for the victims of this association. It would be the least way to respond to their request for a meeting with the Prime Minister. Minister, you say that if recommendations have not been implemented, there is always an explanation. I would like to understand why the one-stop shop does not exist, why the task force working groups did not succeed in dealing with the benefit cards for victims of the attacks, the reimbursement of legal fees, the accompaniment and psychiatric support for children, foreign victims discriminated against. I mention only a few of the recommendations that have not been implemented. Yet they had been supported by the commission of inquiry into the attacks. How do you explain these shortcomings? My colleague spoke about the discrimination suffered by one of the two victim associations. You said you met her. I think it's your office. It changes the deal. With regard to the subsidy, a formal request was made in writing to your firm and received a negative response. Steps have been taken to obtain this subsidy. Minister, as a state, you do not assume the responsibility of the victims because you delegate it to associations. This means that victims will take care of the victims and the State washes its hands. Moreover, you do not even put on the table what is necessary for this work to be done. You not only delegate your responsibility to citizens, but you do not even give them the means to do so! How can we interpret this? On this sad anniversary, we're still there. Recommendations are not put in place. You sent us a folder that contains dozens of pages that hide this inefficiencies. How do you explain that so many recommendations are not being implemented? You tell us that we always come back with the same questions, but that's because you don't give us an answer! Minister, I do not know how this issue should proceed. There are clear requests: either you answer them to really help the victims, or you make communication. The Prime Minister said a lot of nice things a year ago, but nothing was done in practice. Either we're here to solve problems, or we're here to communicate. For now, I only see communication. We're talking about two coaches for a thousand victims! Who are we laughing at? That's not what they're asking! Why don't you implement the recommendations? Why do you not respond to the needs of associations, which have been formulated in writing or during meetings with firms? If you want to answer the problems, answer the requests of the people involved! But come with this coaching, with two coaches for 1,000 victims, I don't even know how to qualify this kind of policy! This is really disappointing, Minister! Six years later, it is really disappointing and you do not even realize the disappointment of the victims of these attacks and the associations that accompany them. This is outrageous for a state that calls itself a rule of law and a democratic state!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and the information you provide on the timing and organisation of the assistance process. You're announcing a Bill 2 to make justice faster, more human and more criminal. I therefore hope that you will come to Parliament soon. It is already at the end of March and according to the timing you have given, the preliminary session will take place on 10 September, while the effective start of the process is foreseen on 13 October. So that's pretty soon and we've been talking about this for a long time. I also believe that it is in the utmost importance that, if it is still possible, a number of legislative measures are carried out to ensure the smooth running of the process. The world will look at us. You also suggested that the Justice Commission should visit NATO headquarters. We will, of course, look into that. I think it may indeed be interesting to do so as the building will later be used for other major processes as well. Finally, I would like to say something about the recommendations. It is a bit of a pity that we did not receive the progress report until last week from you and the other ministers responsible for monitoring the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry. Last year, we had a joint Committee on Internal Affairs and Justice around this period. We then decided that we should first have a processed text with the state of the recommendations. Even then we also decided that we would hear the victim organizations and this, I thought, before the recess. In the meantime, we're a year later and haven't been able to discuss this report yet. I will also contact my colleague from the Interior to organise a committee in which we can discuss the follow-up of the recommendations in detail if an initiative is not taken immediately to set up a special committee for this purpose, as stated in the legislative proposal tabled by my party. That seems to me to be the best thing, given the importance and extent of the work and the fact that it can then be dealt with in a special committee and should not be added to the already busy work of this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u48	Minister, thank you for your response, which began very well when you made us aware of the fact that the previous government had done quite insufficient work for the benefit of the victims. It must be noted, however, that this insufficiency persists. Worse, you are now assuming that if some recommendations have not been implemented, that is justified for some reasons. Like my colleague Boukili, I would have liked to know the reasons why today, almost six years after the attacks, years after the remarkable work carried out by the Committee of Inquiry, some recommendations have not yet been made, even though they are essential for the proper treatment of the victims of these attacks. I find that, failing that, it is a real disrespect for our colleagues who have worked for months in this committee of inquiry, but also for the victims who were in law, seeing these recommendations, waiting for them to be fully implemented at some point in time. I think it was a legitimate expectation that had to be realized. Today, on the contrary, what do we see? These are their own words, minister, they are not mine. Victims feel abandoned or humiliated because they have to turn to associations that organize themselves to be supported, to be informed of their rights, to be even restored to their rights while awaiting the criminal trial because they have to borrow money to survive and get help. When I speak of the victims, I am also thinking of victims who are almost never mentioned who are actually the people who rescued these victims, who were there on the morning of March 22. It is the first responders, the police officers who have experienced these events in an extremely traumatic way and have never had the psychological support to which they were entitled, as you state in your report that this psychological support to which they are entitled has been effective when it has not been. It is all the more unbearable that just a year ago, the Prime Minister addressed the victims of the attacks during the commemorations by telling them straight in their eyes that if this had not been the case enough at certain times, "the public authorities had to do better". He even concluded by saying, "We can't leave anyone behind." A year later, however, this promise has still not been fulfilled. I really call on you, like my colleagues, to properly implement all of these recommendations because the victims cannot wait until the outcome of the criminal trial to be recognized as they must from the outset by the State. For this, it is true that the implementation of these recommendations must be properly assessed. I would like to thank the chairman for convening this committee meeting with the Committee on the Interior, but I would like this assessment to be done on a regular basis and not on a random basis in view of the current situation or some of the reports we would like to receive from you. Victims are entitled to expect regular follow-up on these recommendations, which is the least of all. It would be a much more dignified follow-up, which they are entitled to expect from our authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u49	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Nabil Boukili and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr. Nabil Boukili and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and the North Sea, - Whereas on 22 March 2016, 32 people were killed in the Brussels attacks and more than 300 people were injured in Brussels. Many others were deeply affected by the attacks, including first responders, victims' families and those caught in the attacks but not physically injured; Whereas victims and their families are still faced with inextricable situations which delay their reconstruction, that nothing has been put in place for the care of first responders, that huge gaps persist in the provision of guarantees for the optimal protection of their right to health, their right to access to justice, their right to the truth and their right to effective and prompt compensation; - Considering that, under international instruments, victims of terrorist acts are entitled to material, social, legal and psychological assistance and that, following her visit to Belgium in 2018, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on human rights expressed deep concern at the daily experiences of the victims of 22 March; - Whereas these findings are symptomatic of incomplete measures, and more generally of the inadequacy of the measures taken by the Government and that this delay in assisting victims leads to a phenomenon of secondary victimization, a new source of disorder and stress; - Considering the colossal work that Life4Brussels provides to support the victims on a daily basis; - Considering that the Federal State has granted a subsidy of €200,000 to V-Europe in the framework of a project of coaching victims but nothing for the other association, Life4Brussels which represents 532 victims... - considering the letter sent by Life4Brussels to the Prime Minister, as well as his reminders (11 April and 25 October 2021), all of which remained unanswered; - considering the urgency and importance of the human dimension in this dossier; asks the government - to respond to the Life4 Brussels association and to arrange an appointment with the association in order to explain the difficulties encountered by the victims of attacks and to take stock of the last six years; - to take the necessary measures so that the association can continue its missions so that "no one can be left on the side" as the Prime Minister promised last year at the commemorations." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Nabil Boukili and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard Mr Nabil Boukili's speech and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice and the North Sea, - whereas on 22 March 2016, 32 people were killed in the attacks in Brussels and 300 were injured and many other persons were deeply affected by the attacks, including the first aid workers, the families of the victims and the persons who were at the site of the attack but were not physically injured; - whereas the victims and their families are still faced with very complex situations, thus slowing down their processing process, doing nothing to deal with the first aid workers, remaining huge gaps in the provision of guarantees to ensure optimal protection of their right to health, their right to access to justice, their right to the truth and their right to effective and rapid compensation; - whereas, under certain international instruments, victims of terrorist attacks are entitled to material, social, legal and psychological assistance and that the Special Rapporteur of the UN Human Rights Council, following her visit to Belgium in 2018, stated that she was very concerned about what the victims of 22 March experienced on a daily basis; - whereas these findings are symptomatic of imperfect measures and, more generally, of the inadequacy of the measures taken by the government and of the fact that late aid to victims causes them to become victims for a second time, leading to new problems and stress; - considering the titanic work Life4Brussels is doing to support the victims on a daily basis; - whereas the Federal State has awarded a grant of EUR 200,000 to V-Europe for a victim coaching project, but not the slightest subsidy to the other association, Life4Brussels, representing 532 victims...; - whereas both the letter addressed by Life4Brussels to the Prime Minister and the telephone repeats (11 April and 25 October 2021) have not been answered; - considering the urgency and importance of the human dimension in this dossier, asks the government - to reply to the association Life4Brussels and to establish an agreement with that association so that it can explain the difficulties faced by the victims of the attacks and take stock of the situation over the last six years; - to take the necessary measures to enable that association to continue its mission and to leave no one to himself, as promised by the Prime Minister during the commemoration last year." A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Ben Segers. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Ben Segers. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u50	I refer to the questions that have been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u51	Mr Segers, until 21 March, 108 unaccompanied minors from Ukraine were reported in the Voogdij department. Of these, 107 were reported by the Foreign Office or Fedasil. In these situations, unaccompanied minors have either applied through the registration centre for temporary protection or have offered themselves in the registration centre. In one case, the description came from a municipality. The 200 unaccompanied minors to which the press refers are minors who have recently arrived and still reside in one of Fedasil's observation and orientation centres. For them, they are initially looking for a more sustainable place to stay. It is not evident to make a prognosis of the migration flow from Ukraine. For the time being, there are a dozen daily descriptions of unaccompanied minors from Ukraine. That number remains fairly stable for the time being. Much will, of course, depend on how the conflict evolves further. The government assumes that 200,000 people could come to Belgium. On the basis of the numbers now registered, we may expect several thousand minors. During the Syrian crisis in 2015, we found that out of 44,760 asylum applications were reported as unaccompanied minors by the Foreign Affairs Office in that year 3.744. That is 8.5% of the total number of asylum seekers. The number we can expect from Ukraine is unpredictable. Nevertheless, we want to significantly strengthen the Voogdij service, not only with staff to select, train and follow the guardians, but also with additional budget for the associations that employ employee guardians. The Voogdij service also questions the current pool of guardians to have them include additional guardians in exceptional situations. We also try to be creative by, for example, examining whether we can recognise certain Ukrainians present in Belgium with a social profile as guardian. The Voogdij Service appointed a guardian for ten unaccompanied minors from Ukraine within a few days of arrival. In four of these ten cases, a parent has reported in the meantime, which may lead to the termination of custody after a thorough analysis of the file. The Voogdij Service always tries to appoint a guardian as soon as possible, but gives priority to the most vulnerable minors who are reported to the service. Of the 108 unaccompanied minors who have so far been reported to the Voogdij service, 94 declared that they were taken care of by a family member. The Foreign Affairs Office or any other government agency shall forward this information to the Voogdij department on the basis of a description sheet. This shall be done on the basis of a statement and documents submitted by the minor and the family member or the person accompanying him or her. If there is any doubt as to the true nature of the link between the unaccompanied minor and the escort, or if there are too few elements regarding identity, or if there is a suspicion of trafficking in human beings, the Voogdij Service will initiate a thorough identification investigation. I come to your sixth question. It is the responsibility of Fedasil, the community services and local authorities to provide appropriate care for each unaccompanied minor. The Voogdij Department is not authorized to check whether the accommodation is suitable. The guardian shall ensure that a lasting solution is sought by the competent authorities in the interest of the minor within the shortest period of time. The guardian will therefore ensure that his or her pupil grows up in a safe environment, but this does not relieve governments of complying with their legal mission to provide and control care. Furthermore, the Secretary of State's cabinet has confirmed to me that Fedasil does not assign unaccompanied minors to host families. Only if a minor is accompanied by an adult family member may Fedasil choose to assign a minor and the adult family member to a host family, depending on the place of residence. As far as your seventh question is concerned, all unaccompanied minors from Ukraine who request temporary protection are notified by DVZ to the Voogdij Department. As already indicated, there are 107 out of 108 from DVZ and Fedasil and one from the municipal administration. Municipal authorities are aware of the obligation to complete a description sheet if they come into contact with an unaccompanied minor. This is even contained in a circular letter, which introduced a new description sheet. The Voogdij Service is finalizing the communication to the local authorities to point them out once again. The municipalities can also find more information about the unaccompanied minors and the role of the guardian on the new website info-ukraine.be and on the website of the FPS Justice Department. I come to your eighth question. At present, 460 unaccompanied minors are to be appointed by the Voogdij Service as guardian. 200 of these unaccompanied minors have recently arrived and reside in one of Fedasil's observation and orientation centres. They are initially looking for a more sustainable place to stay. In a second phase, a guardian can be sought and appointed for them in the local environment. At present, due to the shortage and large influx, it takes three to four months to appoint a guardian. The Voogdij Department will give priority to assigning a guardian to the most vulnerable unaccompanied minors. This concerns unaccompanied minors arriving only at the border and for whom there are indications that they may be victims of trafficking in human beings or other forms of abuse. They are also unaccompanied minors with serious medical or psychological problems, pregnant girls or teenage mothers and very young unaccompanied minors. It's true that the waiting list is growing. Since the summer of 2021, we have also been faced with a very high influx of unaccompanied minors. Within the EU, we are in second place in terms of the number of notifications. As for your ninth question, the Voogdij Service is investigating the possibility to appoint guardians from the Ukrainian diaspora. To this end, a number of practical issues, such as the submission of custody reports and the opening of a bank account, need to be examined further. Ideally, the guardians of the Ukrainian diaspora work as an employee guardian at an association, so that they are given extra framework. In order to tackle the current crisis, I will ask for additional staff for the Voogdijk Service. The FPS Justice will also make a call through Talent Exchange to get additional support in the relatively short term. As I said, I want to hire 60 additional employee guardians through the association. Those professional guardians can take the pressure off the boiler from the voluntary guardians. That's how we tackle the waiting list issue. I hope your party will support this proposal. As for your last question, the Voogdij Service has been facing a very high influx of unaccompanied minors in the last eight months. That's gonna put a lot of pressure on you. It's the first time in years that the service has to appoint so many guardians. I therefore understand the difficult situation in which we have to work. As I have said, I will therefore ask for additional staff for the service. I sat with them yesterday to find solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u52	Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answers and the intention not to make a child disappear off the radar. I welcome the fact that your answer sounds very different from last week's, when you said that there would be no specific measures, that there would be no specific action on the Ukrainian diaspora and that the shortened screening and training pathway was not on the agenda. All that seems to be in motion right now. I am glad that we are once in a while a cog with which another can be set in motion. At least I hope so. I am glad that you took up last week's suggestions. I did a math. I am very pleased with what you have announced, namely the employees' guardians. In proportion to a maximum of 20 to 25 pupils per guardian, for a durable accompaniment, 1,200 to 1,500 pupils can be accompanied. There is already a waiting list of 550. So there are 32 guardians left for 600 to 700 Ukrainian pupils. You just said it could be thousands. You will then have to look carefully at how long an education lasts. You should also ensure that you can anticipate more in good time. That requires constant vigilance. I'm glad you went to see the Ukrainian diaspora, too. Yesterday we had contact with the International Committee, the multicultural umbrella association. There was certainly willingness. That's where they're looking for pedagogues. The Ukrainian community is also giving up massively. I'm sure you'll find those guardians. You can also contact the International Committee for this. Minister, there was already a problem of guardians for unaccompanied minors. The situation in Ukraine only makes this even more clear. I ask you to address this and anticipate the arrival of many unaccompanied Ukrainian minors. Provide more than enough guardians and frames. No matter what happens, you have solved a problem that already existed and in any case lastingly. Good luck with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u53	Madam President, Minister, it is clear from Article 365, paragraph 2, paragraph 4 of the Judicial Code that the experience acquired by judges from the private sector is taken into account, in calculating their financial seniority, only up to a maximum of six years. However, this limitation does not exist for many other functions, including lawyers, notaries, public officials or university professors. This failure to take into account the experience of the private sector raises questions, particularly in the light of the shortage of magistrates that you have been trying to fight, rightly, since the beginning of this legislature. Improving the treatment of judges, however, also helps motivate potential candidates to apply, especially since the legal experience gained in the private sector can prove to be a great added value for our judiciary. Therefore, Mr. Minister, could you please let me know why the maximum number of years taken into account in the calculation of magistrates' pecuniary seniority was set at six years? Do you think that these reasons are still justified today? If not, do you intend to make any amendments to this section of the Judicial Code to put an end to this difference in treatment? In any event, is it conceivable to reflect on this subject, both with a view to eliminating this difference in treatment which seems difficult to justify but also to contribute to the restoration of the essential attractiveness of the office of magistrate?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u54	Madam President, Mrs Rohonyi, indeed, Article 362, § 2 of the Judicial Code provides that the experience gained in the private sector shall be taken into account for the calculation of pecuniary seniority only up to a maximum of six years. As you yourself point out, it is important to note that years of experience at the bar are fully taken into account as well as the experience gained in any other function within the Judicial Order or any other public service, such as that of notary or university professor. For access to the judiciary via one of the access routes, we always turn first and foremost to young lawyers and experienced lawyers. Their experience is best suited to a judge's post. However, other types of experience may also be relevant and useful. Taking these elements into account, therefore, this measure is not really illogical. Moreover, by this measure, the legislator wanted to avoid at the time that young lawyers with the ambition to become magistrates were attracted to positions in the private sector rather than to judicial internships. This measure was therefore intended to promote the attractiveness of the judicial internship. In view of this objective, the Council of State, in its judgment of 30 June 2004, found that this measure was not unreasonable or contrary to articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution. Therefore, there is no unequal treatment. What I have just said obviously does not mean that it would not be useful to assess the effectiveness of this measure. I think it would certainly be useful to consider all possible measures that could enhance the attractiveness of the profession of magistrate with a view to attracting a sufficient number of strong and motivated candidates. At the same time, the objective remains to maintain at a sufficiently high level the attractiveness of the route of access to the judicial internship. An amendment to Article 365(2) must not have the unintended effect of making judicial training less popular with young lawyers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u55	Minister, thank you for your answer. Returning to the Judicial Code, I referred to article 365 of the Judicial Code, which refers to the duration of services rendered which, in the financial status of the staff of the ministries, can be taken into account for the calculation of the financial seniority of civil servants who belong to level 1 and according to its terms. In my view, therefore, it is this article that should be referred to. In any case, I think we both have focused well on the problem. Today, the judiciary is faced with a problem of vacant places that do not find enough candidates to be replaced in time, with the terrible consequences that are known to litigants. This lack of upgrading of the profession despite the workload and poor working conditions of judges is mainly at issue. I am pleased to hear you say that you are open-minded to work towards a better attractiveness of the profession, to ease this third path of access to the judiciary while avoiding the possible perverse effects that this could have. It is important to be careful not to break vocations. Indeed, if applicants wish to become magistrates, it is certainly not because of the remuneration that is assigned to them, but it goes without saying that their expertise must be able to be fully taken into account and valued in the framework of the new function that they would like to take up in the service of all our litigants.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u56	Minister, on 20 March, various actors in the justice system, including lawyers.be, the Association of Magistrates' Union and the Union of Lawyers for Democracy, joined together in the framework of the "Day of Justice". I would like to stress this solidarity of the judiciary in denouncing the current state of our justice. The demands of these actors are clear: -A justice accessible to all, which implies the lifting of financial barriers such as the reduction of VAT on lawyers' fees; -A measure of the workload to enable a transparent allocation of resources; -The implementation of independent self-management; -Justice well equipped with infrastructure; -Performing digitized justice; -A public service in accordance with the requirements of the rule of law. Minister, what is your response to these justice actors on these different claims?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u57	Dear colleague, they are calling for faster, more humane and firmer justice! I could answer for hours! However, I will try to respond to every point you have raised. With regard to VAT on lawyers' fees, Council Directive 2006 aims to harmonise VAT legislation. In 2013, the legislator repealed the exemption from VAT in the services previously available to lawyers. It is therefore not possible to go back, i.e. to revert to exemptions that have existed or to provide for new ones. The wording of the Directive precludes the introduction of new derogations or an extension of the scope of existing derogations. With regard to your second question, under articles 181 and 184 of the Judicial Code, responsibility for the calculation of the workload rests with the Judicial Order, in particular the College of Courts and Courts and the Collègue of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I have urged the Colleges to put this process into practice in a coherent and compatible system between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the courts and tribunals. Work's going on. With regard to your third question, there is first of all a terminological precision: we are working on autonomous management and not on independent management. These are two different things. Self-management is not an end in itself but must first enable justice to be made more effective, at the service of the justiciable. This is an important project for me and, after eight years, it is high time to succeed. That is why I stressed in my political guidance note in November 2020 that it is really time to implement the 2014 law. We are working step by step, gradually giving the college more decision-making power and responsibilities. Resources are linked to these objectives or agreements that we have entered into with the various entities when allocating additional resources to strengthen justice. Prior to allocating these resources, we have entered into agreements on the objectives to be achieved. On point d, you were able to read in my policy statement that I want a significant improvement in the infrastructure of justice. I am well aware of the sometimes deplorable state of some of our buildings. In order to achieve this, it will inevitably be necessary to rationalize the housing stock. Justice today occupies about 230 buildings. This is much and difficult to justify in the light of the practice of neighbouring countries. I want to identify and implement a path that will lead us to have fewer buildings, but buildings that allow justice staff to work in dignified conditions and to improve the reception of people at the same time as ensuring access to justice for all citizens. A first comprehensive analysis was carried out by the administration through a questionnaire sent to the occupants of the buildings. The results will be validated by the user committees by borough. At this time, the first test meetings were launched, before deploying the system across the country. These structures will aim in the short term to identify with all occupants action plans to address emergencies and, in the medium term, to participate in the reflection on the rationalization of buildings. I want to involve all actors directly in this reflection. The Régie des bâtiments is obviously an important actor who will be involved from the beginning. With regard to your point e, I also refer to my statement and policy brief and to the detailed explanations that I have provided following the discussions in this committee. I don't think it's useful to repeat them here. Concerning point f, the conformity of our judicial system with the requirements of the rule of law is a priority for me. The FPS Justice contributes transparently to the European Commission's evaluation mechanism for the different components of the rule of law. In particular, this exercise addresses issues related to our judicial system and leads to an annual report by the Commission on the rule of law. A visit from Belgium has just been organised in this context on 17 March. The most recent initiatives related to judicial vectorization were presented, in particular the Act of 23 December introducing the Public Prosecutor's Office for Road Safety and laying down various provisions on judicial organization and justice, which increases the percentage of judges who can be appointed on the basis of an oral assessment examination, establishes the Public Prosecutor's Office for Road Safety, lays down the conditions for the designation of the Public Prosecutor's Office and contains provisions on delegation within the latter. New initiatives for granting more autonomy to judicial entities within the framework of judicial delegations within the judiciary will also be presented shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u58	Thank you for your detailed answers. Indeed, the elements advanced concern, in a certain way, the project of effective, humane, firm and faster justice. I don't think anyone would object to that slogan. That said, what do we put behind this slogan? I think there is a contradiction in the way we see this more human justice. In the present claims, it is said that VAT on lawyers' fees is a barrier to the accessibility of justice. We share and support this claim. I even had a bill to that effect. However, you tell us that we must not go back to it. Thus, behind the same title of a firmer, more humane and faster justice, one does not put the same ingredients. When you dig, there are fundamental contradictions. I do not think that the harmonisation of VAT is a sufficient argument since VAT has just been changed on electricity and probably on gas as recently as possible. It has not prevented anything at this level, whereas when we talk about lawyers' fees, we talk about access to justice, which is a fundamental right, a constitutional right. Yet, we maintain a brake on this right. I am talking about VAT, but I can talk about the illegality of the state with regard to the executive law. Violation of this law is still ongoing today. There is no concrete response. Even when we talk about infrastructure, management or something else, this framework is still illegal. I want us to have titles and slogans, but in fact, I don't think it's a coincidence that these justice actors are coming with those demands. On the ground, either they are not respected, or they are contradictory to what has been done so far. It is not because the title is attractive – a faster, more humane, firmer justice – that what is being done by the government in this direction necessarily responds to concerns and expectations on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u59	Minister, on June 1, 2018, the French-speaking Parliament of Brussels adopted a resolution that recommended a series of measures to the federal government to foster relationships between inmates and their children, especially when they are young. Minister, what action does the federal government intend to take on each of the 13 requests contained in this resolution, particularly for Haren Prison and for all prisons under construction? Are you considering setting up expert groups to support minors who would pay particular attention to the younger children in order to assess how they live their visits to prisons and improve their visits? Are child rights training provided to prison officers to ensure optimal care for children? In accordance with requests 2 to 5, 10 and 11 of the resolution, can you give me a detailed account of the facilities that have been put in place or are planned, including in the prisons under construction, in order to ensure that children are better accommodated in prison? Measure 12 requires that all devices for maintaining the link between children and detained parents be insured, even in the event of a strike. Is this actually guaranteed today? Finally, in accordance with request 13, is a cooperation agreement concluded or will it be concluded between the federal government and the federated entities concerning the reception of children of prisoners in prison and the maintenance of the relationship between children and their detained parents?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u60	Dear colleague, with regard to your first and third questions, Belgian law allows mothers to keep their children under three years of age with them during detention. Prisons where possible and with the appropriate infrastructure and support of the specialized service are designated by a royal decree. Currently, these services are provided in Bruges, Lantin and Berkendael. The latter will be replaced by a section of Haren Prison. To be clear, mothers are not obliged to keep their children with them during detention, it is a choice left to them. There is intensive cooperation with the Office of Birth and Childhood (ONE) in order to optimize the circumstances in which children can stay with their mothers until the age of three. The opinions of these expert organisations are taken into account in the functioning of current and future prisons. The ONE also takes care of the mothers of the children both inside and outside the prison. Red Cross volunteers regularly take the children for a walk outside. Depending on their age, children can go to the nursery. As far as Haren prison is concerned, the infrastructure of the mother-child sections – both in the closed wing and in the open wing – has been adapted to current standards, i.e. five rooms per section. During the preparatory work, work continued with the services of experts. For example, the baby can sleep in a nearby room. All sanitary facilities are available. There are possibilities for relaxation and play, including outdoors. The open section is also located outside the perimeter of the prison, the concept of which is very similar to that of a detention facility. It is the profile of the incarcerated mother that determines whether she and her child will remain in the closed or open section. Each visiting room has a children's playground. On Wednesday afternoon and on weekends, visitors with children are taken to another visiting area that offers more flexibility. Haren has four family visiting rooms, with outdoor space, which offers the possibility to spend more time with the family, in combination with a family meal. In addition, visits by children are possible within prisons, in an environment that is suitable for them. The goal is to allow them to interact with their parents in a pleasant way and to play together. Time when children are not in school is taken into account when planning the visit. External services may supervise such visits. In addition, children's parties are often organized during the holidays. Families can also participate in visits, so that they can interact with each other in privacy and without supervision. The Brussels prison collaborates with the children-parent relays and will probably continue to do so after their arrival in Haren. For example, the ASBL "Relais Enfants-Parents" comes to visit the children who have been placed and who would otherwise not receive a visit. In Haren, continuous visits will be organised to avoid long queues. To answer your second question, there is very close cooperation between the prison and the Agency, as well as with external organizations that supervise the children's visitation campaigns. The prison system attaches great importance to such cooperation, given the vulnerable situation of children, and will continue to invest in such cooperation in the future. As part of the training, attention is given to the special situation of children in detention. When staff are assigned to these sections, it is obvious that their affinity with young children is taken into account. For your fourth question, the visit is indeed one of the activities that must be guaranteed under the law. Article 17 provides that the detainee may maintain contact with his or her relatives on a daily basis by correspondence and, in the event of a strike of more than two days, at least once a week by visiting and accessing the telephone. Finally, an agreement was concluded between the federal authorities, the Agency and the Government of Brussels. It is being updated. In short, there is structured and constructive cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answer. I would like to go back to some aspects. First of all, you insist on the choice that is left to the mother to be able to stay in prison with her child, as long as he is under three years of age. However, there is a need to ensure that this choice is truly free, as it is currently forced by the circumstances. Some mothers are reluctant to keep their children with them, because they rightly consider that prison is not an optimal place in which they wish to see their children grow up, especially in their early years, and that prison remains a criminogenic place. It was in this sense that I found it interesting to reflect on the motion for a resolution, since it suggested a long-term measure whereby mothers accompanied by young children could consider a solution other than imprisonment. This is how I find it interesting what Haren has put in place: semi-open or even open regimes. There are also shorter-term measures. It is true that Haren was adapted to children, which we saw during our visit to the prison site under construction. I wonder, however, what will be put in place for future prisons or the oldest. Is it considered that Haren is a pilot project and that what is done for children will be evaluated or, is it considered that everything that has been put in place for Haren is acquired for other prisons in the future? This seems fundamental to me and does not appear in your answer. For the rest, I welcome the structural collaborations with the NEB's services. You cited the remarkable work at the initiative of the Relais Enfant-Parent. There are, however, other interlocutors who could work constructively with you, such as the General Delegate for the Rights of the Child or his Dutch-speaking counterpart, the Kinderrechtencommissaris. It is with all interlocutors that all detained parents will be ensured that their relationship with their children is maintained, regardless of their age, in all prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u62	Madam President, Minister, I do not know if you heard the interview with Mrs Ina Hut last week. She is director of CoMensha, the Dutch coordination centre against trafficking in human beings. It was a very interesting interview that you can still find on my Twitter account. She outlined a very clear picture of the exploitation and trafficking of Ukrainian refugees in the Netherlands: "We get stories from chain partners and concerned citizens. There is an increased demand for Ukrainian women on porn sites. When Ukrainian women arrive at stations in the Netherlands, sometimes there are men standing around who impose themselves. On social media you can see that Ukrainian women are being asked for as a possible candidate for marriage. Housing is offered, but when a Dutch-speaking volunteer calls to it, vague answers are given or hanged. There are also reports that in a city, refugees have been received by someone with seven in a room of three by three, which have been isolated. Fortunately, the neighbors were alert and the authorities took them out." It is very striking how clear that image is. I have already questioned many other ministers and they have to look again and again at what situations of exploitation have been detected and so on. I also asked the Prime Minister last week what was already known about this cross-cutting. He had to keep the answer to me. So that contrast is very big. Earlier, I asked you in the margins of other questions about the desirability of a central hotline. You said last week that, apart from the crisis in Ukraine, one central hotline was already being examined at your request by the three centres, but that they are not yet ready. Can you describe that further? What stage is this central hotline in? Who's not done yet? What are the obstacles? Are you in favour of such a central hotline for all potential situations of trafficking in human beings, which police forces, inspection services, emergency services, citizens and so on can report? Are you in favour of seeing the structure with a back office to tackle the exploitation of Ukrainian refugees as a starting point for a more generalised central hotline as in the Netherlands? Will you take care of that, if necessary, in stages? With what budget and at what time? How is imaging happening at the moment? In other words, could you say something similar to Mrs Hut? Through the awareness campaign you try to centralise all reports of Ukrainian citizens, which is wonderful. How are you also trying to get a complete picture of the reports to the police, inspection services and citizens? What's the latest on the task force?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u63	Madam President, Minister, as Mr Segers points out, the alarm signals we hear from our group about the first reports of sexual and economic exploitation of refugees are also very worrying. Payoke mentioned reports they received from refugees who were offered a place of residence in exchange for providing sexual services. On Friday 18 March 2022, a campaign was launched by Payoke. This was not done via official sites, but via Facebook, Instagram and Telegram. That is what my first question is about. Are there any initial results? How many refugees have already been reached? I also have a question about authenticity. How can the refugees be sure that it is not about advertising or propaganda to deter refugees from Russia? What matters are being considered in this context? Mr Segers has already pointed out that it may be very important to report the trafficking in human beings. I've seen something in my question now. Because I made some searches on the website of the Netherlands, I had asked another question to open the debate. However, it is not specifically about trafficking in human beings alone. We have seen that this is Meld.nl in the Netherlands. There are at least 50 issues, all of which are equally important, such as trafficking in human beings, which we have just discussed, but also intra-family violence, environmental law, social fraud and discrimination. The system was created in the Netherlands in 2016. It's a great success. After all, there was a proliferation of more than a thousand hotlines. That is why I have the following question. Do you know of such a central hotline? Are you in favour of that? Will you have a survey carried out to establish such a hotline?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Mr Segers, in reply to your first question, I would like to say that the centres have indeed done their homework on my question. The proposal is now before the administration to consider its feasibility. There are also meetings this week in which the central hotline is an item on the agenda. The creation of a central hotline has an impact on the current operation of the three centres and must therefore be properly tested by the centres themselves. What comes first for me is that the refugees from Ukraine, who we know are often children and women, can come into contact with the authorities in our country in an easily accessible way, not only when there is exploitation, but also when they have other questions or problems, such as trauma, need for psychological guidance, sexual harassment and so on. We have had discussions on this with the federated entities, public health and the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. In all these bodies there are opportunities for adapted and professional assistance. We are now looking at how we can streamline this in the best possible way. We are also considering the possibility of a phased introduction of a central hotline on economic and sexual exploitation in the short term. This would, in the first instance, allow better registration of the victims of trafficking in human beings and thus better imagery via a digital platform. That knot hasn't been cut yet, so I can't pin myself on it yet. It also depends on the discussions with the other services and authorities I spoke about. Mr Segers, Mrs Bury, I am, of course, in favour of a central hotline. It is certainly not necessary to invent the hot water in Belgium. I refer to CoMensha, the Coordination Centre against Trafficking in Human Beings, a centre that does imaging but also plays a role in signaling, advising, directing and coordinating. I see here a combination of the work of the Interdepartmental Coordination Cell Office and a new initiative, as indicated earlier in my reply. Mrs Bury, you also spoke in your question about the Dutch Handlehandleiding Gemeenteelijke Opvanging Ukrainians. We are of course familiar with the playbook that the Dutch have drawn up. It will be included for further consideration at a meeting of the Interdepartmental Coordination Cell. Mr Segers, we can hardly claim that there is currently no dark number, despite the meritorious attempt at correct and complete imaging by Myria and the three centres. Continuous awareness of police forces and other services to correctly report a case of trafficking in human beings should contribute to better imagery. The digital platform I mentioned earlier could also lead to more complete imaging. You also asked for a final state of play on the Sensibilisation Task Force. As you know, it has been a flying start by launching a very short-term awareness campaign through images posted on the various social media channels. By questioning the refugees themselves, we have been able to address the exact communication groups. In addition, the three centres and the other organisations have shared our images. The specifically created page of info-ukraine.be also includes the same campaign under the Support section in Belgium, of course in English, Ukrainian and Russian. Next Friday a second version will be released and distributed massively, this time with animation and a voice-over in both Ukrainian and Russian. The task force was deliberately kept small, because it had to be decided quickly. There will be further consultations tomorrow and more partners will be involved, including inspection services and the Communities. The theme that the Task Force will focus on this week concerns minors. We will see how we can reach them as much as possible. Mrs Bury, as far as your first question is concerned, this is not a Payoke campaign, but a campaign coming from a task force in which Payoke is one of the centres. The other two centres, PAG-ASA and Sürya, are also members of this task force. It is not possible to have concrete data after less than a week. We know that we have been able to reach more than 10,000 people through social media. These are specific channels on which refugees operate. Of course, we have no idea of the actual number of people reached once this was posted, because it can also be shared through other channels. As far as your question on the verification of authenticity is concerned, I can tell you that, when the message is located, it goes down the usual route to the parquet, in particular to the reference magistrates. When it comes to non-localized coverage, it goes to the federal police, DJSOC, Human Trafficking, who works closely with the federal prosecutor in an attempt at identification or localization. As for Mr Bury's questions about the central hotline, you are talking about kleiding.nl. I checked, but that doesn't seem to me to be an initiative of the government, but of a certain Sonny Baboeram. If you browse the site as a victim and click on a particular theme, you will be asked to pay an amount for the legal screening first. You ask me if I am in favour of that. I'm not. Security and victim support are a fundamental task of the government. Victims must be helped immediately by the government and not via a private and commercial website. Referrals to public authorities are also difficult to find through this platform. So I will not investigate this central hotline any further.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u65	Minister, I am glad that you will continue to examine the other kind of hotline according to the Dutch model. I'm glad you're a supporter. I didn't expect anything else either. I think it would be a huge achievement if it really were to come. You have already started the awareness campaign on a proposal from Vooruit. I am grateful to you for bringing together the right partners immediately. Nevertheless, it remains striking how much we are still in the dark in Belgium. The future reports by Ukrainians are of course just a piece of the puzzle and it is striking how phenomena in the Netherlands are clear and not necessarily in Belgium. This is also important in order to be able to penetrate the policy. For example, I have been asking for increased vigilance in all Belgian services that come into contact with Ukrainian refugees for a long time. Two weeks ago, I asked Minister Verlinden for increased vigilance on the part of the Railway Police and now I see that the Dutch reporting point has established this. What is happening in the Netherlands is, of course, also happening in Belgium, and I can only hope that we have adapted our policy to that effect for a long time. The same goes for searching the Internet, searching for annonces. Finally, yesterday I also put a question to Minister Dermagne, who apparently is also working on a hotline on exploitation. That is, of course, good news. I have asked him to ensure that this does not interfere with the multidisciplinary model and that it is not double-crossed with what you are doing. Indeed, 80% of labour exploitation concerns trafficking in human beings. So it shouldn't be double-up. There must be at least one collaboration. I wanted to alert you so that no double or parallel work would be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u66	Madam President, Minister, it is indeed very important to see how many people you can reach with that campaign. There is some information available to see how many people are being reached on such matters, but it is, of course, a little more difficult to estimate whether they are effectively refugees. You talked about the cases that are being forwarded to the courthouse and about misreporting. It's very good that you're playing the ball there for a short time. I apologize for the fact that I have not seen that reporting.nl is a private initiative. However, it is true that an initiative at Belgian level, where all the themes are collected nicely and people can click through, about problems with neighbours, intra-family violence and trafficking in human beings, would be a very interesting slope. Now sometimes the trees are no longer seen through the forest because of the number of hotlines. One does not know where one should be. Instead of being laconical about it, it might be a good idea to study whether such a global hotline could not be an option to help citizens much better.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u67	I admit my next question is a mess. It is true that there are different aspects involved. When it comes to trafficking in human beings, there are many different situations involved. This question therefore follows on from the previous one, but also from the question of custody. In the meantime, how many situations of exploitation and trafficking in human beings are known? You have already mentioned that no additional cases have come to light through the campaign, but perhaps this has been done through other channels. So, what kind of situations were we dealing with? How were they reported? Belgium is increasingly facing Ukrainian unaccompanied minors. It is important to contact the parents or family in Ukraine or elsewhere as soon as possible. Is there a strategy for this, for example from the Voogdij Service? To what extent is the Ukrainian consulate now involved? There have been reports of recruitments in Ukrainian orphanages. This could mean that there could also be illegal adoption in Belgium. Is this on your radar? Is there an increased vigilance for this? If so, with whom and how? After all, I have read a little more about the scale of surrogacy there. That seemed very disturbing to me, by the way. In the Netherlands there is apparently an increased demand for Ukrainian women as a possible candidate for marriage. Does this phenomenon also occur in Belgium? Is there an increased vigilance for that? Have you detected any of these cases? Last week you said that contacts were being made with Fedasil in the context of the awareness campaign with information to reach Ukrainians in Belgium. That is very good, but it is also important that there should be increased vigilance in all crisis housing so that, for example, municipal staff is also aware. In the Netherlands, there has been a so-called hand-out in connection with the reception of Ukrainian refugees for two weeks. It also calls on the staff of reception structures on the basis of a list of indicators to pay attention to signs of exploitation and trafficking in human beings, and to report these signals. Will you provide a similar, preferably more concrete, list of indicators for the staff of the Belgian crisis housing with the demand to transmit these signals to the competent services? I just heard you say something about an instruction concerning unaccompanied minors. Perhaps enlargement is possible for these aspects. There's now a letter about the candidate vesters. In addition, there is also a very large informal circuit that is difficult to reach. However, there are also times when contact can be made, even though we are not yet going to the Heysel for the activation of temporary protection, for example at the time of the declaration of arrival. Through this list of indicators, can you also bring cities and municipalities into the highest level of preparedness, so that they too are aware of signs of exploitation? Can this information also be disseminated by this route?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u68	Mr Segers, I would like to give a number of different answers to your question on various aspects. At the moment we are talking about two situations, through the channels known to us, in which Ukrainians were the victims. That's part of an ongoing investigation and I can't say anything else about it. As far as your second question is concerned, one of the tasks of a guardian is to track down close family members and restore contact with their relatives. On the basis of the information available from the description sheet and the conversations the guardian has with the minor, the guardian will take up his role and look for family members. For this purpose, the Voogdij Service calls, inter alia, on the Red Cross, which has a specific service, in particular Resolut Families. If the minor so wishes, the guardian will contact this special cell and an interview will take place. The Red Cross then goes through its own channels and partners in the countries of origin to find family members. My cabinet already had a first contact with the consul of the Ukrainian consulate to sit together on the Ukrainian unaccompanied minors who are present in Belgium. A concrete date for physical consultation is still being sought. As far as your third question is concerned, the task force set up by me will meet again on Thursday 24 March 2022. On the agenda is everything about sensitisation of minors. Child Focus will also join the Task Force meeting. As far as your fourth question is concerned, we are of course aware of that. Last week, I asked the cell of human trafficking of the federal police to ensure that both local and federal police in our country are extra vigilant in this respect. The communication took place last week. As for your fifth and sixth questions, posters have been created by the task force sensitisation, which are also available on the Belgian website www.info-ukraine.be. Local authorities will be informed of available tools so that they can be distributed among their services. I can tell you that the Health and Health Agency will be present tomorrow at the task force meeting. They can communicate the needs of local authorities and organisations. Then we can see how we can further sensitise together around here. In anticipation of brochures, everyone is free to use the digital version and to print and distribute it on their own initiative, where necessary and at their level. I also asked the FPS Justice to inform the VVSG, the UVCW and the VSGB, so that all Belgian cities and municipalities are well informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u69	Thank you, Minister, for all your convincing answers. I'm just going to go into your answer to the question about the possible suitors. I searched the internet myself and it took me about ten minutes before I found such annonce. So there are certain. I would therefore like to ask your services to screen this extremely well. If I can find them, your services will do much better. There are certainly very disturbing cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u70	The question by Mr Boukili No. 55026444C is converted into a written question because it was expected in another committee
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u71	Minister, the autonomy of the organisation of work has enabled the Mons Court of Appeal to establish a specialized chamber to deal exclusively with environmental matters. Having such a room in such a complex matter is an excellent thing. First of all, from a symbolic point of view, the importance of environmental protection is recognised, but also from a practical point of view, that such a chamber will benefit both litigants and non-specialised magistrates. I wonder, however, why these specialised chambers remain within the scope of the decision of a particular court when they must be able to benefit all litigants. It is also a reflection that I have already submitted to you concerning the chambers specializing in sexual violence, whereas the specialized courts in Spain have enabled the victims to receive a prompt judicial response and thus protection which is just as effective. Minister, have you been consulted on the establishment of this specialized chamber in Mons? If so, what is your position on the opportunity to set up this type of room? Do you intend to generalize them throughout the country if, after evaluation, it turns out that the results in Mons are conclusive? Civil society advocates that the whole chain of control and sanctions should be specialised in environmental offences. Is that desirable, in your opinion? Do you consider it appropriate, for example, to specialize in certain sections of the public prosecutor's office? Finally, I had already asked you about this several weeks ago, and you explained to me that article 88, paragraph 2, of the Judicial Code requires the President of the Court of First Instance to determine the number of chambers and that, in the absence of specialized chambers as such, the specialization of these chambers was possible. What follow-up do you intend to give to this article? Should it be amended to allow for equal treatment among victims, particularly with regard to sexual violence? It is now a decision of the President of the Court of First Instance. Would it not be appropriate for environmental chambers as well as for chambers specializing in sexual violence that the same chambers could be generalised?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u72	Dear colleague, on your first two questions, I would like to refer you to the answers I gave to colleagues Goffin and Van Hecke on 9 March in this committee. As far as your third question is concerned, there are already specialized substitutes in this field, and as already mentioned, we are thinking about the incorporation of this specialisation into the law. However, if the fight against environmental offences is to be effective, it must not be limited to public prosecutors. The entire criminal chain must be involved. Indeed, if we have specialized magistrates only at the level of the Public Prosecutor's Office, it would be bogged down. There is also a need for specialized police officers to identify offences. It also requires judges from the seat who are particularly familiar with this matter to rule effectively on these cases, which has been established by the Mons Court of Appeal. These are the reasons why we want all actors to be involved in this approach and to be specialized, not just prosecutors. I come to your fourth question. I am well aware of the example of Spain to which you refer. I have already commented on it in this committee. I can only repeat that the fight against sexual violence is a priority for this government. The new sexual criminal law voted in Parliament last Thursday is an example of this. I believe in the need for specialization at the level of the Public Prosecutor's Office, but also at the level of the College. But to make this specialization possible, an increase in scale is often necessary. We cannot have all the specializations in all the courts. There is the environment, sexual violence, trafficking, trafficking in human beings, phishing, to name but a few. One must therefore think of a higher level than that of the first instance. I am thinking here, for example, of the Court of Appeal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic735x.u73	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. I refer in particular to the answers you have already given to my colleagues, Mr Philippe Goffin and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke. In any case, I am entirely with you when you say that it is the entire criminal chain that must be able to benefit from such specialization, whether it is sexual violence or whether it is the monitoring of environmental offences, the standing of the judiciary or the sitting of the judiciary or the police. I therefore hope that you will appeal to your counterpart in the interior, who is also competent to set up this specialisation. You say that such specialization does not have to be in all the jurisdictions of the judicial districts, which I can very well hear. I dare, however, hope that this can be done, as you said earlier, at the level of appeal courts. Indeed, it would be a good solution or, in any case, a compromise solution. I do not know whether this is an idea you have launched to please me or whether you have a real political will to do so. That is why I will not fail to ask you again about this within a few months.
