ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic851x.u1	Mrs De Wit, this question should actually be addressed to my colleague in charge of the Directorate of Buildings, but I will nevertheless give you an answer. The decision concerns, on the one hand, a decision by the city of Kortrijk, in particular the College of Mayors and Ships, and, on the other hand, the Federal Government. It was examined whether permits were needed for this project. Because it is a temporary project and a living and staying function is already provided, no permits are required. Appeal proceedings therefore do not apply. Consequently, the detention house opens on 1 September. As for your third question, the rules for leaving a detention home are exactly the same rules as we know them in a classic prison. Once in the time conditions one can request an exit permit or penitentiary leave at administrative level and a limited detention to the criminal execution judge. This to prepare the probation or for social or family reasons. I come to your fourth question. As promised at the local consultation on 26 October 2021, the neighbourhood will be informed at regular intervals by the services of EPI preparing the opening. Examples of this are consultation between the management of the detention house and the area worker from the neighborhood 't Hoge. The Director of Social Policy, the Police Commissioner and the OCMW-responsible are working on the activation to further develop communication with the neighborhood. A plan of approach was also developed for communication towards the neighborhood and neighborhood visits. There will be a place visit, as promised during the info meeting, with guided tours in small groups of neighborhood residents. A separate tour for the neighbourhood committee is provided. Information will be given around the target group, about the works in the detention house and the visit to the location. All this will take place before the arrival of the first inhabitants. This is now being tested and worked out. As soon as this is done, a communication will be sent to the neighborhood residents. As far as your last question is concerned, with the knowledge I have now received, I have not received any registered letters.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic851x.u2	Thank you for your answers, Minister. There is cooperation with Flanders around the regime and the succession of those who reside there. I understood that there were still some doubts about that. I therefore hope that they can be resolved as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic851x.u3	I refer again to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic851x.u4	Colleague, following the death of a festivalgoer at Extrema during the 2021 edition, the organisation and several medical and security partners have developed an integrated drug policy, which also focuses on prevention and aftercare. The Limburg parquet was from the very beginning involved in the initiative of the mobile lab. Prior to the festival, it was clearly communicated about the dangers of drug use, that drug use is not tolerated and that controls would take place. The use of the mobile lab should be seen as an additional and preventive measure, with the main aim of ensuring the health and safety of festivalgoers. The drugs that were tested were merely seized or found drugs. The test village was founded and financed by Extrema Outdoor. The police, the public prosecutor and the medical services have cooperated in this by making seized or found drugs available to the lab. Under no circumstances was it tested for user demand. I come to your second question. When high concentrations were detected during the test, the result was immediately notified to the police, the public prosecutor and the organisation. Prior to communication via the screens on the ground, via the app, via social media and the press, there was always a crisis consultation with all the actors involved. I do not agree with your statement that it gives the impression that other drugs are safe. In fact, the numerous checks at the entrance have always signaled that drugs are prohibited and dangerous. This message was also mentioned on the website. As far as your third question is concerned, we strongly believe that such communication will have a preventive and dissuasive effect. The intoxication rates of the medical post seem to confirm that this kind of communication is paying off. This trend was already noted by the chief physician and was reaffirmed this year. Festival visitors who decide to use drugs despite such coverage are prevented from using dangerous drugs. More generally, and this is the essence for me, organizers focus on tackling drug use, and certainly drug trafficking, at festivals. They are supported by the government, the police and the police. For example, there is the OMS drugs, a new measure that has been applicable throughout the country since 1 January this year, with an immediate friendly settlement for the caught drug users or owners, who are offered crossborder via the platform to each police department and every public prosecutor. From the CORE Festival in Brussels, about Tomorrowland in Boom, to Pukkelpop in Hasselt, many festivals use this lick-on-piece approach. These OMS drugs were also applied to the Extrema Outdoor festival this year. The NICC provides support by quickly and correctly analysing the drugs. Soon you may take literally in this case. In the meantime, we know that a rapid analysis can save people's lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic851x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It remains a difficult balancing exercise. It is announced that one can have his drugs tested at a festival. Well, I believe that this must be accompanied by a campaign to point out that every drug is dangerous. A test site must not give the message that dangerous drugs are being taken out of it, but that the rest can be used. Every drug is and remains dangerous. So I think it is a very difficult balancing exercise. If this is applied, it can only be done within a much wider framework, in which any form of drug use must be discouraged. If a lick-on policy is then linked to it by means of a quick friendly settlement or further measures, then that is fine with me. We must be careful, however, that we maintain the balance and not give the wrong signal that there are safe drugs, because they do not exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic851x.u6	I refer again to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic851x.u7	Colleague, I have already received and answered several questions about this in the last few months. I will confine myself to the essence. The creation of an area for low risk drug use in Brussels is based on the Ordinance of 22 July 2021 on the recognition of services active in reducing the risks associated with drug use. There is also the Decision of 20 January 2022 of the College of the Joint Community Commission. It will not sound strange to you, I suspect, that the ministers of the federated entities state that they interpret their powers to the maximum. In fact, an action for annulment was brought before the Constitutional Court against this order. There are currently exchanges of pleadings between the applicants and the various authorities concerned. At this stage, however, I cannot determine when the Constitutional Court will decide. We await the arrest.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic851x.u8	I'll wait with you, Minister. I am very curious to see what the Constitutional Court will say about this. In fact, I believe that this is contrary to the current drug law. What has happened to that order is indeed a maximum exercise of the so-called competence of prevention, but ultimately it facilitates the use of drugs and makes it available locally, which is expressly prohibited by the law on drugs. I am very curious not only about the decision of the Constitutional Court, but also about its consequences and what will eventually happen when that decree is destroyed. I assume that action will have to be taken against drug-related crimes. That's the problem. When you walk around in the vicinity of the user room, you can walk around there with drugs in your pocket, which is of course a useful excuse for people who do not even intend to go to that user room. To be continued, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic851x.u9	We have not heard from Mr Ducarme.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic851x.u10	Madam President, the investigation in question was published in the press a while ago. I have waited for my colleague, Mr Ducarme, because he was absent because of illness, but since I have not heard from him and we are bound by deadlines, I would like to refer today to the written version of my interpretation. According to a study by Het Laatste Nieuws and VTM Nieuws, a requirement of the National Lottery would have been the basis for the prohibition of gambling advertising that was poured by you into a design of KB. In exchange for that ban, the National Lottery would pay 30 million extra to the State over the next three years through a monopoly interest rate. This monopoly interest is the amount that the National Lottery has to pay annually to the government in order to be the only one in this country to organize lotteries. In a letter dated 1 October 2021 from the delegate director of the National Lottery, Mr Jannie Haek, to the Secretary of State for Consumer Protection Eva De Bleeker and Secretary of State Sammy Mahdi, responsible for the National Lottery, the latter is literally prepared to cough up the additional 30 million, but he lays down three conditions. It says literally so: 'To the extent that the Belgian State is asking for an increase in the monopoly interest rate for 2022, it seems important for the National Lottery that the Belgian State should take at least the following concrete accompanying measures." One of the conditions imposed by Mr Haek is the restriction of advertising for games of chance. This 'will be further restricted by imposing stricter rules on advertising', it is further stated in the letter. The letter also included an annex: a proposal for a budget table linking the extra millions to, among other things, the restriction of advertising for games of chance. The letter also literally states that the Lottery has drawn up the table 'in consultation with the cabinet'. The link is also maintained in the final budget tables published in the Official Journal in mid-December. A further entanglement has been announced for a long time, but there was never a complete ban on gambling advertising... In my previous questions to you about this, it is striking that the government is strict on the gambling industry, but the advertising of games or scratch notes by the National Lottery leaves it untouched. That's also something that's notable for experts. 'It is a good thing that the government reduces the advertising of gambling sites, but we must also dare to think about the advertising of the National Lottery," says Dr Geert Dom, professor at the University of Antwerp and specialist in addiction issues. According to our group, there is widespread corruption here which needs to be further investigated. 1.Are you aware of the letter dated 1 October 2021 from the delegate director of the National Lottery to the State Secretary Eva De Bleeker and Sammy Mahdi? 2.Can you confirm the messages regarding monopoly interest in exchange for a ban on gambling advertising for everyone except the National Lottery? What is your position? 3.Are you going to give your full cooperation to an external investigation in order to clarify this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic851x.u11	My decision to restrict gambling advertising is completely separate from the letter from the delegate director of the National Lottery and has nothing to do with it. I was indeed informed of the letter, as was the case with all the other members of the government, during the discussions in the context of the Budget Conclave in October 2021. I am formal: the reason I want to restrict gambling advertising is to counteract the increasingly devastating effects of gambling addiction. A letter from the delegate director did not affect that decision. The chronology of the facts proves that. Nor do I spare the National Lottery in my proposal. Their sports betting is also subject to the same strict rules. On Thursday 24 June 2021, I announced in Parliament that I would take measures to restrict gambling advertising. During last year's European Football Championship, we were flooded with gambling advertising via all kinds of channels. That was also something that the fellow Members of Parliament did not understand. I remember many questions from colleagues Depraetere, Van Hecke, Van Hoof and Jadin. Also in my policy papers 2021 and 2022 I announced that I would tighten the rules for gambling advertising. The issue was discussed with the aid sector on 7 September 2021. Based on its input, a regulatory framework was developed. I would also like to refer to the press release of 15 June 2022. That dates from after your questioning, if I'm not mistaken. In it, the National Lottery explicitly states that it was not involved and is involved in the drafting of the draft texts of the Royal Decree on Gambling Advertising. According to the press release of the National Lottery, the government has been working for some time to tighten up the advertising rules. I quote from that press release: 'The government has been working for a long time to tighten up the advertising measures and this proposal for a royal decision was not new'. I am, of course, willing to participate in any possible external research on this. The truth has its rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic851x.u12	Minister, the last sentence is the most important. You're willing to cooperate in an investigation. You state that the chronology of the facts is completely separate from the letter. It will appear that it has not been so, if you cooperate with it. I also know that you've always talked about tightening and intertwining. Now, on the one hand, we see a total ban. Nor do I express the position of our group on the issue. I merely point out that it seems that discussions simply cannot take place. That's the problem. We see that the National Lottery is left completely untouched. In that respect, you have now reluctantly admitted that this cannot be the intention. Of course, we are keeping our finger on the pulse. That's just normal. It is impossible to work with two sizes and two weights.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic851x.u13	Mrs Bury, the proposal I made is, firstly, not a total ban on advertising. That's not right. The second point I want to make is this. You're saying that the National Lottery is completely off the hook, you claim. That is not true, however. The sports betting of the National Lottery is covered by the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic851x.u14	Minister, this is about Score, but not about all the luring advertising people face 40 times a day, such as the Scandalous Rich Advertising. You yourself quoted that slogan as advertising that attracts and drives people to gambling with its devastating effects. We are therefore holding our finger on the pulse. You will have to come forward with a proposal supported by the whole of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic851x.u15	The president:At the end of this discussion, the following motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Katleen Bury and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Katleen Bury and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice and the North Sea, - whereas according to an investigation by Het Laatste Nieuws and VTM Nieuws, a requirement of the National Lottery would have been at the basis of the prohibition of advertising of gambling by the Minister of Justice in a draft of KB; - whereas in exchange for that prohibition, the National Lottery would pay 30 million extra to the State over the next three years through a monopoly interest rate; - whereas the above promise was literally formulated by the delegate director of the National Lottery, Mr Jannie Haek, in a letter dated 1 October 2021 to the Secretary of State for Consumer Protection Eva De Bleeker and Secretary of State Sammy Mahdi, responsible for the National Lottery; - whereas this letter was accompanied by a proposal for a budget table linking the additional millions to, inter alia, the restriction of advertising with the literal indication that this was done "in consultation with the cabinet"; - whereas the link is maintained in the final budget tables (publication December BS); - whereas the Minister of Justice always announced a further tightening of gambling advertising, but that there was never a complete ban on it; - whereas it is at least striking that the government is extremely strict on the gambling industry, but leaves the advertising of the National Lottery completely untouched; asks the government - to check whether there is corruption and/or distortion of competition in this file, or any other crime, and, where appropriate, to take appropriate action; - verify whether the National Lottery in exchange for that ban on gambling advertising will pay 30 million extra to the State over the next three years through a monopoly interest rate; - to immediately initiate an external investigation in order to clarify this matter." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Katleen Bury and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Katleen Bury and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and the North Sea, - Whereas, according to an investigation by Het Laatste Nieuws and VTM Nieuws, the prohibition of advertising for bets cast by the Minister of Justice in a draft royal decree would result from a requirement of the National Lottery; - Whereas, in exchange for this prohibition, the National Lottery would pay the State an additional 30 million monopoly rent over the next three years; - Whereas this promise of payment was made explicitly by the managing director of the National Lottery, Mr Jannie Haek, in a letter addressed on 1 October 2021 to the Secretary of State for Consumer Protection, Ms Eva De Bleeker, and to the Secretary of State for National Lottery, Mr Sammy Mahdi; - Whereas to this letter a proposal for a budget table was annexed providing that the additional millions were linked in particular to the restriction of advertising and explicitly stating that this was done "in consultation with the firm"; - Whereas this link remains specified in the final budget tables (published in December in the Belgian Moniteur); - Considering that the Minister of Justice has repeatedly announced a further tightening of the advertising of bets, but that there was never a question of prohibiting it altogether; - Considering that it is, to say the least, surprising that the government is extremely strict with regard to the gambling industry, but that it leaves the National Lottery full scope for advertising; asks the government - to check whether there is corruption and/or unfair competition or any other infringement in this case and, where appropriate, to take appropriate action; - to check whether, in exchange for this ban on advertising for bets, the National Lottery will pay the State an additional 30 million monopoly rent over the next three years; - to immediately open an external investigation to provide a definitive answer to these questions." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. We have not heard from Mr Prévot. His question No. 55029170C expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic851x.u16	"Mr Minister, I have been questioned by the notarial world, which, as you know, is dear to me, about a potential contradiction that could arise by the coming into force of Article 2.3.63 of the New Civil Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic851x.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Article 2.3.63 did indeed enter into force on 1 July. You are right to say that section 2.3. 63 and article 3.77 of the Civil Code lay down rules which are not formally identical. Section 2.3.63 provides for the separation of property regime that each spouse may, at any time, request the division of all or part of the undivided property between them, while section 3. 77 states that in the case of voluntary co-ownership created for an indefinite period, each co-owner may, notwithstanding clause to the contrary, terminate the contract with a reasonable period of time. These provisions are, however, in line with one essential point. Article 2.3.63 states that it applies only subject to an agreement to the contrary. For its part, article 3.76 and 77 provide that each form of co-ownership that is voluntarily created shall be governed by the contract. Article 3.77 states that the time limit for the termination of the indefinite co-owner may be fixed by agreement between the co-owners. Whether married or not, therefore, all couples who purchase property together may agree on a fixed term or not for this division, as well as on a time limit to be met before they can request a division. Another common feature is the protection of family housing. Article 2.3.63 states that it is without prejudice to the application of Article 215 § 1 of the former Civil Code, which provides for the protection of the building used for the main dwelling of the family, and that the same reservation also applies to legal cohabitants. In the context of Article 3.77, the fact that the division relates to a dwelling may also be taken into consideration by the judge in determining the duration of the period and the termination in the absence of agreement between the parties. The difference between the rules enshrined in Articles 2.3.63 and 3.77 is therefore relative. Despite this, one cannot speak of a contradiction between these two articles since Article 3.2 of the Civil Code enshrines the subsidiary nature of the rules set out in Book 3. In other words, Article 2.3 63 constitutes a derogation from Article 3.77. As I have just said, the difference between the rules set out is relative as long as it assumes that the parties have not contractually settled their rights on this point – and this, when these articles relate, by definition, only to contractual situations. In any event, it must be noted that there is an objective difference in the scope of these two articles, with section 2.6(3) applying only to married persons, whereas section 3.77 applies in the other cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic851x.u18	Madam President, I congratulate the Minister on this list of articles. I thank him above all for his reply to the notaries who had asked us about this. I will not fail to convey to them your precise answer, all points being connected between them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic851x.u19	Mr Goffin, we must be careful not to put everything in the same basket. When Molenbeek is affected by cases of armed violence and settlement of accounts, we must be careful not to call it urban violence in the sense of the conferences we organised on this subject last year, just before and after the summer holidays, in particular by responding to your suggestion. On 28 June, the Prosecutor's Office and the police explained these serious facts, most of which are related to drug trafficking and organized crime. That was not the objective of our conferences on urban violence. These shootings clearly go beyond Molenbeek and are a priority for both local and federal prosecutors and police. Arrests had already taken place and persons had been held in pre-trial detention, as required. For such acts of violence are simply unacceptable. Together with my colleague Annelies Verlinden, we took the initiative to organize in 2021 two webinars concerning riots and urban violence. The first webinar, held on 5 July, highlighted a number of Belgian practices or projects developed as part of the management of urban riots or other phenomena that are good examples, which we can perhaps draw on in the case of riots. The second webinar, held on 29 November, focused on the initiatives and projects developed by France and the Netherlands. Through these webinars, we were able to see that good policy was developing on the ground. Various authorities and services have developed projects according to concrete needs on the ground. For example, we can refer to the approach of urban gangs and urban incidents in Brussels and Molenbeek. However, we have also found that Belgian and foreign actors are still seeking more information exchange on the subject and good practices in order to assist them in the day-to-day management of these disorders. Indeed, the phenomenon of urban riots is current not only in Belgium, but also abroad. Today, this phenomenon and its different characteristics raise many questions and questions about the approach to be taken in their management. From these two conferences, various lessons can be learned. First, the need for a better knowledge of the phenomenon. There is sometimes confusion between the different notions: rioter, young urban band, protestor, breaker. The academic and scientific world has a role to play in this need for a better knowledge of this phenomenon. Secondly, the need to focus on holistic, multidisciplinary and integrated approaches, focusing on the exchange of information. The time has passed when the different actors on the ground were each involved in their sphere of competence without interaction, collaboration and cooperation with the other actors. The services must dare to cooperate with other services that work according to other logics. Thirdly, the value and effectiveness of tailor-made approaches, both preventive and repressive. Fourthly, the need for a swift judicial response to the facts in question – it is essential that the person hears his conviction quickly – but at the same time, the need to respect fair justice and the exercise of the right of defence. Fifthly, the need to work in the police-youth relationship. Sixthly, the importance of developing a strong local outreach network, the need to maintain and support it, thereby enabling people to listen to their expectations, to communicate with them and to manage their frustration. At the level of justice, webinars have demonstrated the need for a swift judicial response. We have invested in strengthening the judiciary and judicial personnel, as well as in additional tools to implement an immediate crackdown policy. I am thinking in particular of the introduction of the 'M' project as it already exists at the Limburg Public Prosecutor's Office, the alternative penalties for learning against violence as developed by Vias, but also of the widespread introduction of immediate transactions, particularly in the fight against shoplifting. At the request of my strategic unit, the SPF Justice drafted a preliminary draft of the accelerated procedure under detention, which will form part of an ad hoc reform of the criminal procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic851x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic851x.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 10 June 2022 the Council of Europe adopted an interim resolution in the context of the Vasilescu judgment. In this context, the Council calls on Belgium to take a number of measures, such as the introduction of a preventive remedy, to set up the prison council provided for in the Act of 23 March 2019, to put in place awareness-raising measures with a view to increasing as much as possible alternatives to detention and to reducing cases of imprisonment and to consider measures regulating the prison population. It is from this last point of view that we must consider the release at the end of the sentence that you are referring to in your question, Mr Goffin. This exceptional and momentary measure is indeed one of those which will allow to act quickly on an overpopulation which is currently particularly important since, on 4 July 2022, the prison population is still 11,086 prisoners for 9,679 places. But other actions are also being undertaken, such as round tables on overcrowding that were launched on 10 June 2022 with a debate on pre-trial detention, and they will continue as early as 30 September 2022 with another debate on internment. Haren's opening is now imminent and the opening of Dendermonde's new prison will soon follow. But, alongside these openings, the sites of Saint-Gilles and the current prison of Dendermonde (Termonde) will remain partially open to provide 350 additional places to which will be added 720 places planned in detention houses and 100 places in transitional houses. A third call for projects on transition houses will be launched quickly. A new 16-seat site in Ghent was further validated by the Council of Ministers on 24 June. As far as the effective remedy is concerned, I stress the fact that the Council of Europe has recognised an appeal on the basis of Article 1382 of the Civil Code. The resolution calls for Belgium to implement a preventive remedy. This suggestion could be considered in the Prison Board. As far as the latter is concerned, I expect from my administration proposals for texts to customize articles 5 to 8 of the 2019 Act. These proposals are expected by the end of the summer. In anticipation, I am already organizing a number of round tables that can be considered as a precursor to the prison council. A first meeting was held on 10 June. Furthermore, the law for more humane, swift and firm justice also contains a chapter aimed at improving the constitution of the prison council, which will be launched no later than the beginning of next year. However, this chapter will not be open to discussion until after the parliamentary re-entry. Remember that a few articles have been removed from this project, including this article. These are just a few examples of reactions to the fight against overpopulation, and this autumn, as I committed myself to doing, I will present to the Council of Ministers a comprehensive plan on the subject. Indeed, the fight against overcrowding can only succeed with solutions at several levels and by profoundly changing the way in which punishment is envisaged. Making punishment the ultimate remedium is one of the pillars of this work necessary for this new Penal Code that I intend to present shortly. It will also be the cornerstone of this change.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic851x.u22	Minister, thank you. There is absolutely no doubt about your willingness to move the lines positively in the field. We have already had the opportunity to express it before. This debate has been coming back for years. I hear all the actions you take or intend to take. You will necessarily have the support of my group to go in the direction you have indicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic851x.u23	Minister, thank you for your detailed answers. Indeed, this problem is not new and it does not happen one day without mentioning the living conditions of detainees.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic851x.u24	Since we have not heard from Mr Ducarme, his question No. 55029200C.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic851x.u25	Mrs Bury, what happened in Merksplas were dramatic facts with a dramatic outcome. Nothing can justify these facts. My thoughts are with the victims. I also thank the Special Forces of the Federal Police for their professional work. They were able to end this hostage situation. The Antwerp parquet has shown maximum transparency in the investigation, and that is what should be done. Communication showed that the victim filed a complaint at the end of May against the defendant, that the prosecutor has applied for the arrest and that the investigating judge has taken the decision to release the defendant under conditions such as a street and contact ban and psychiatric supervision. Intra-family violence is a priority for justice and police. That has to be clear. The time when this was not taken seriously by the police and the justice system is behind us. Take a look at the multidisciplinary approach through the Family Justice Centers. In the Kempen there is one of these FJCs. We are strengthening this approach in the interests of the victim with the stalking alert. I'll come back to that later. Then I come to the point of risk assessment. Of course, I am not insensitive to the arguments put forward. In order to protect society as much as possible, good risk assessment of sexual offenders and assessment of the risk of recidivism is essential. Risk assessment should be structured and evidence-based. The risk assessment should be carried out at an early stage. In East and West Flanders there is already a detailed risk assessment for parquet and police. I would like to take a look with the College of the Chair and the investigators to see how we can share such an assessment with the investigators. We are also working on a proposal to amend Article 43 of the Code of Criminal Procedure through a working group of magistrates and experts who consult with the field. The aim is that the prosecutor and the investigating judge can instruct psychologists and psychiatrists to draw up a high-quality risk assessment from the start of the investigation. The psychological investigation provides insight into the suspect, his or her actions, the danger, how to deal with it and the need for treatment. I also refer at macro level to an important policy-supporting instrument, which is the project's repeat monitor and repeat cell. Justice has granted the NICC an increase in the amount for the establishment of a repeat monitor and repeat cell. Scientific research on recidivism is very important, measuring is knowing. Mr Bury, I will come to your punctual questions. You are presenting practices to me from the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and France, asking why we are not adopting them. We cannot, of course, accept all the systems from other countries. We follow our own policies and have our own systems, which does not mean that we look at best practices from abroad thoroughly. As for your first question, at the request of Mr Schlitz, the NICC and the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men are examining a methodology for domestic review. The working group examines how the analysis of femicidal and gender-related killings can contribute to addressing the phenomenon. As regards your second and third questions, the stalking alarm was introduced on 1 March this year. The application of the mobile stalking alarm is going well. We are taking additional initiatives to increase familiarity with this tool. For example, the tool is explained further on consultation with the various chiefs and at the arrondissement consultation. There will be a SharePoint page for the police services, where not only the necessary useful information on IFG can be found, but also the mobile stalking alarm will be consulted, as will information on sexual violence. A study day will also be organised for both police and magistrates, where the importance of a mobile stalking alarm will be underlined once again, on the basis of cases and testimonies of victims. Then, together with Mr Schlitz, I will look at the national introduction. A national guidance committee was set up on 27 June to extend the project to other police areas. Seven other police areas are currently interested, namely Antwerp, Brussels Noord, Brussels HEADSTAD Ixelles, South, Montgomery, Marlow-Uccle and Liège. As far as the anti-approach link in France is concerned, I gave you a comprehensive answer months ago to explain why we do not opt for this system in our country. This is also assessed negatively by various women and victim organisations. As regards your fourth question, the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on combating violence against women is still in the legislative process and is therefore still under negotiation. So your question is a little premature. Of course, we are following the work in the European Parliament well. As for your fifth question, the time limit for arrest is no longer 24 hours but 48 hours. The investigators have various possibilities when confronted with a suspect who is suspected to have an underlying psychological problem. In this way, they can first and foremost appoint an expert who, with knowledge, determines the psychiatric condition of the suspect. This is regulated by Article 5 of the Internment Act. When the investigating judge is informed about the state of mind of a suspect but at the same time wants to guarantee safety, he may decide to lock the suspect in a psychiatric annex to the prison pending the expertise report. In addition, the investigating judge may also order that the suspect be included in a secure clinical observatory. The added value of this is that there is also observation of the suspect in the center. This observation adds value to the expert's report. For this, places are provided in the prison of Saint Gillis, pending the opening of the prison of Haren. If the investigating judge finds a placement in a psychiatric institution appropriate, this may, in the context of a PPS, be subject to freedom under conditions, in other words as a necessary condition to be released pending the proceedings on the substance. This means that the defendant must agree to these conditions of release. In concrete terms, he or she must agree to the temporary admission to a psychiatric institution, acknowledge that he or she has an underlying problem and are willing to be treated. I also mention the possibility of amending Article 43 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Then I'll come to your last question. The COL 15/2020, which provides for the re-use by the police of a first-line risk assessment tool on partner violence, provides for a risk assessment schedule to be completed by the police officer on the basis of the victim's statement. That list of risk and protective factors, drawn up in an accessible manner, deals with the facts denounced, the suspect, the victim and the relationship they have. The list includes, in particular, the intensification of violence, the increase in its frequency or the use of new forms of violence, the death threat against children, the conviction that the victim has a relationship with another person, the isolation of the victim and even violence against pets. In case of disturbing indicators, the police officer must contact the magistrate to inform him or her of the urgency of the situation. The aim is to identify the most risky situations, regardless of the intrinsic severity of the facts. The roster of factors is supplemented with each new first report on the basis of the victim's interview, which facilitates a regular review of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic851x.u26	Thank you for the comprehensive answer, Minister. You're working hard on the repeat monitor. Risk assessment is already divided in East and West Flanders. This is shared with the investigators. What already exists can already be shared with the investigators in the short term. This can be done quickly. Can the stalking app be rolled out quickly? You're talking about a study day. We are still talking about East and West Flanders. Seven police zones are interested. However, you did not indicate a specific date for entry into force. The woman in Merksplas wasn't helped with a stalking app. She was asleep and the son was killed before the woman knew what was going on. There are a number of cases of extreme violence and violent acts, where an anti-approach bracelet with a perimeter better protects the victims. You have replied that there are also negative experiences with perpetrators who get a little bit into the perimeter and then go back out. An alarm goes off for nothing. Then it's up to the judges and the police to respond and send the person who abuses the rapprochement bracelet to jail. It's very simple. I'm sure it could be a tool that helps victims. A perpetrator can only stick to the perimeter and should not play games with it. I remain convinced and I will continue to ask the same questions as the drama continues to repeat itself. That's what's gonna happen. Perhaps you will then come to the understanding that it might be useful to look at that as well. As far as your explanation of the investigators is concerned, Article 5 of the Internment Act exists. Psychological or psychiatric assistance exists. In practice, however, they can be locked up in anticipation of an investigation involving offenders who behave strangely or have been extremely violent. I am referring here to a mandatory opinion, which should be included in a manual for investigators, which states that a investigating judge must be assisted in cases of violence and all forms of abuse by a psychologist or psychiatrist. You can do that with some kind of watch-keeping system. Is that worth considering? Can we think about that? We often see that an investigating judge is on his own or does not think it is necessary. So the possibility of assistance alone can help.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic851x.u27	The president:At the end of this discussion, the following motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Katleen Bury and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Katleen Bury and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice and the North Sea, - whereas the fatal hostage situation in Merksplas on Saturday 25 June last is yet another case of senseless lethal partner violence; - considering that the victims were not adequately assisted; - whereas investigators too often have to judge on the basis of experience and their gut feeling; - whereas better research and more appropriate instruments to avoid lethal partner violence are intrusive; asks the government - to check whether pattern recognition in partner violence crimes is already being investigated (cf. United Kingdom); - to speed up the rapid roll-out of the stalking app throughout the territory in the short term; - in the short term, in the event of extremely violent events, the anti-approach bracelet should be introduced (cf. France and Spain) which automatically alert the victims and help them in life-threatening situations; - to examine the initiatives already taken concerning the guide for investigators and to examine when this guide can be finalised; - wish to verify in a short space of time whether it is possible, in the event of, inter alia, partner violence and (child) abuse, to require an investigative judge to seek the advice of a psychiatrist and, where appropriate, to take a legislative initiative to this end; - to check whether the "factsheets intimate terror' from the Netherlands, in addition to the risk assessment tool, can provide added value for the aid workers and to introduce this in a positive case." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Katleen Bury and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Katleen Bury and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and the North Sea, - Whereas the killing of hostages in Merksplas on Saturday 25 June is a new case of senseless violence between partners leading to death; Whereas the victims were not adequately assisted; - considering that investigating judges too often have to decide on the basis of their experience and intuition; - Whereas better investigation and more appropriate instruments are needed to prevent violence between partners leading to death; asks the government - to check whether research on the recognition of patterns in crimes of violence between partners (cf. United Kingdom) have already been carried out; - in the short term, to speed up the deployment of the anti-harassment application throughout the country; - in the short term - in case of extremely violent acts - to put in place the anti-approach bracelet (as in France and Spain), which causes victims to be automatically prevented and rescued in situations where their lives are in danger; - to check what initiatives have already been taken concerning the guide for investigating judges and to check when this guide can be finalized; - to check in the short term whether it is possible, inter alia, in cases of partner violence and child abuse, for an investigating judge to seek the advice of a psychiatrist in an emergency and, where appropriate, to take a legislative initiative in this regard; - to examine whether the "terror factsheets" used in the Netherlands – as well as the risk assessment tool – can represent added value for social workers and, where appropriate, to implement these two tools." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Boukili's 55029420C was converted into a written question.
