ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 May 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 May 2022, you received an amended agenda for today's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u3	We must proceed to the admission and swearing-in of the alternate to sit in place of Ms. Evita Willaert, who resigned from May 24, 2022. We must proceed with the admission and swearing-in of the successor who is eligible to replace Mrs Evita Willaert, who has resigned from 24 May 2022. The alternate is Ms Kathleen Pisman, an alternate from the electoral district of East Flanders. The successor who will replace her is Ms Kathleen Pisman, successor to the East Flanders constituency. Kathleen Pisman's credentials were validated in our June 20, 2019 session. Mrs Kathleen Pisman's credentials were declared valid at our meeting of 20 June 2019. Since the supplementary verification, provided for in article 235 of the Electoral Code, relates only to the preservation of the conditions of eligibility, it appears that this verification has, in view of the documents obtained, only a character of pure formality. Since the additional examination provided for in Article 235 of the Code of Choosing only concerns the maintenance of the eligibility requirements, in the light of the documents obtained, it is a mere formality in the present circumstances. I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission of this member. I therefore propose that this Member be admitted. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. Je rappelle les termes du serment: "Je jure d'observer la Constitution" "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I ask Mrs Kathleen Pisman to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mrs Kathleen Pisman to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u4	Kathleen Pisman will be a member of the Dutch language group. Ms Kathleen Pisman will be part of the Dutch language group.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, we will begin the topical issues. For your information, I decided last week to test the exercise by taking place next to the ministers and the Members who ask the questions. After consulting with each other, I found that the exercise was not very conclusive. I suggest you continue to sit in my usual place, and keep you under high surveillance. I must also inform you that many of you have filed questions on the point permit. In the opinion of the group leaders consulted, it appears that we can organise a topical debate, which will take place just in the wake of topical issues. Questions will be addressed to Minister Gilkinet. The inquiry that was originally addressed to Mr Gilkinet in committee therefore falls, since we will have every opportunity to hear the questioner in this topical debate. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u6	Minister, 1.3 million inactive people in an overstretched labour market, how is that possible? In some countries higher benefits are paid and more people are employed. Some countries have more people with a migration background and are also more active. Before some people start calling for tougher sanctions or some target groups, I can only stress that it is very complex to find a job in Belgium. For example, I hear bizarre stories from the volunteers of DUO for a JOB in Aalst, who guide people with a migration background to work. Young people who do want to work are completely lost because of inaccessible services. People who do want to work sometimes know too few other people and therefore do not enter the labour market. Job seekers want to work in shiftwork, but find no bus that takes them from home to the workshop. Those are some thresholds for getting a job. Those are the stories behind the numbers. We cannot solve all the problems here in Parliament. There is an important responsibility for the Länder. However, we have to deal with this, Minister. In the care we already do that: we get rid of that with the too high honorary supplements and use back-to-work coordinators. In short, we must all take responsibility together, including the social partners, to do something about it. Minister, what are you going to do to get the labour market reform back on track?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u7	Despite the unprecedented crises, the corona crisis, the floods in Wallonia, the war in Ukraine and rising inflation, our rate of effectiveness has risen sharply. Just before the corona crisis, the employment rate was 70.4%. In 2021, it increased to 71,6%. In all regions, the employment rate is rising by 1.6 % in Brussels, 2.4 % in Wallonia and 0.5 % in Flanders. Those are the figures, Mr Anseuw. We also see the impact on the number of job seekers. In March 2020 there were about 327,500 jobseekers, in March 2022 there were about 296,500. So it's about 31,000 jobseekers less in two years' time. This result is due not only to the workability of our economic fabric, but also to the work I am doing together with my regional fellow ministers. I do not need to repeat that the follow-up, supervision and activation of job seekers are primarily regional competences. As far as federal powers are concerned, the government has already taken a number of measures to make works more attractive. I am thinking of raising the minimum wage, the mini-tax shift for the lowest and middle wages or ensuring good, healthy and safe working conditions. However, specific policies are needed for groups with a great distance from the labour market. For these groups, I organise an employment conference every year on the basis of the analyses carried out by the High Council for Employment. Last year's conference was about older workers. In the meantime, an action plan on this subject has been submitted to the social partners for their opinion. This year's conference puts people with a migration background outside the EU at the centre. The aim is also to present a specific action plan for that group. In the light of the principle of equal opportunities in the labour market, I have already taken several steps towards a better balance between work and private life and improving legislation on mistery calls.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u8	Thank you for your reply, Minister. For us, Socialists, work is really essential. Quality work makes people happy and we need to focus more on that. Not only do we now find that jobs are not filled out, there is also a lot of talent lost. It is unacceptable to us that the willing should not be over-threshold. That is why Vooruit believes that this should be done. I am aware that it is a shared concern and I am therefore also looking at the results of the Employment Conference. That concern needs to be turned into action, and now is the time to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u9	Minister, half a million people in our country are long-term ill. Unfortunately, that is a sad record we can write on our conto. 36 percent of these people have psychosocial complaints at the root of the breakdown. Moreover, a recent study by the Social and Economic Council of Flanders, the SERV, shows that 300,000 people in addition are suffering from burn-out symptoms and that an employee on the two in Flanders thinks that the job is not workable. According to CD&V, these are reasons enough to give the highest priority. Prevention of burnouts is crucial. Burn-outs do not occur overnight. There are many causes and it is usually not just about too high a workload. The role of the executives is also crucial. The manager can play a crucial role in both prevention and timely detection of burn-out complaints, such as demotivation, reduced performance and regular short-term absence just before a final burn-out failure. What measures do you intend to take to assist employees and employers in the prevention of burn-out? For CD&V there is a need for a broad, global preventive approach, firstly by focusing on the timely detection of excessive workload. There are useful tools for this, including the Federal Government's questionnaire. Secondly, managers need to be trained for positive coaching of people. Thirdly, work and private life must be well defined. The employee should not be available to the employer day and night, people are entitled to deconnection. What initiatives do you take to realize those things that are important to CD&V?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u10	Thank you, Mrs Lanjri, for your questions. I share your concern. SERV's report puts the finger on the wound. However, the report also referred immediately to the most efficient remedy. All interested parties need to invest more in preventing excessive stress and other psychosocial risks in the workplace. For me, this is one of the priorities of the policy on well-being at work. We're better off preventing than healing. That is why I want to focus fully on prevention, both in the law on various provisions on work, better known as the work deal, and also in the ongoing discussion on reintegration pathways and the federal plan on mental well-being at work. With regard to deconnection, the draft law provides for an obligation for companies to define the modalities through social dialogue. At least the modalities to be met are training and awareness-raising actions for employees and managers on the rational use of digital tools and the risks associated with excessive use. As far as the individual right to training is concerned, it is up to firms to offer training to employees, possibly through an intermediary such as a sectoral training fund. Within the federal plan for mental well-being at work, the national campaign is still running until the end of June. Sectoral projects, which focus on the primary prevention of psychosocial risks, are also in the starting blocks. It concerns 11 projects from September 2022, worth EUR 1.5 million. I am also preparing a structural strategic action plan on prevention for mental well-being at work, together with Ministers Vandenbroucke, De Sutter and Clarinval. You will find out more about this in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u11	Mr. Secretary, as you pointed out, it's all hands on deck. We need to work together, across all policy levels, to tackle this problem. After all, nobody likes to sit at home with a burn-out. People like to make themselves useful and like to be among their colleagues. Nobody does that for fun. I therefore call on you to implement the plans and proposals that are there. Make sure they don't stay a dead letter. Ensure a good work-life balance through the right to deconnection. It's in the labor deal, but it's not there yet. Make sure that executives can get the training I just mentioned. Also make sure that there is good, affordable psychosocial assistance. Also make sure that people, when they fail, are accompanied on time and are quickly reactivated. According to the Court of Auditors, this too is crucial to intervene in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u12	Madam President, Minister, on Tuesday we will be back in Belgium. The common trade union front of public services organises actions throughout the country. You know why. You know what the demands are: more purchasing power, more investment in staff and resources, dignified pensions and the protection of trade union freedoms. The staff of the public services put these demands on the table because they feel like the garbage of this government. After each budget is drawn up, there will be a round of savings in public services, as if they were all superfluous, as if they were the great earners and as if the workload were not at all high for them. However, public services keep this country running. You saw that during the corona crisis. When the time comes to reward those people, this government withdraws. For 20 years, the payable masts have not risen. Do we think that's normal? Do not come and tell us, like the other ministers, that they have been given an index increase. I've heard that ten times. People are sitting on their gums and just can't go on anymore. They're not gonna make ends meet. Well, I'm not talking about service. Think of the SNCB, which has to leave trains every day because it has too few staff. I would very much have liked to ask Minister De Sutter my questions today, but at the moment when the syndical consultation is at its peak, she makes a candy trip to Davos. That's a priority, of course. So I have no choice but to ask you the questions. Do you support the unions? In what way will you meet their demands?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u13	Mr Colebunders, on 31 May we will be faced with a national action day in public services. It is a joint action by the three trade unions, with the aim of increasing salaries and investment in public services. The action will be felt in various services, such as the civil service, Justice, hospitals and also in SNCB. At the moment, the consultants of my colleague Petra De Sutter's policy cell are working with the trade unions on a weekly basis. It has put forward a proposal for sectoral agreement for public office and it is seeking a preliminary agreement with the trade unions before the summer, but as you know one must be in order to conclude an agreement with two. This proposal contains a number of measures which will increase the purchasing power of officials for the first time in 20 years. In addition, as a government, we also focus on workable work, in particular on mental well-being, accelerating selection and recruitment and a culture of diversity and feedback. There are also talks with the police and the judicial order. There too, specific initiatives are needed. Furthermore, of course, there is also the track and it is our ambition to make the train the backbone of the mobility of the future. A new sectoral agreement will also benefit the public authorities themselves. This will help to make work for the federal government even more attractive, making job vacancies easier to fill and improving services for our citizens. In the context of the war for talent, it is important to be attractive as a federal government and remain competitive vis-à-vis the private sector. In many departments, we are faced with crucial bottleneck jobs that are not being filled out, because the wage competition in the labour market is not standing still and we want to do so with the government (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u14	Mr. Secretary, it seems like another charade here. In social dialogue, two parties are always required to reach an agreement. However, if you come up with a one-sided proposal and say that there is no money for all these demands because of the budget gap, then that is not an agreement. Otherwise, we would not be arguing on Tuesday. They wouldn't be on the street. Have you ever asked yourself why these jobs are not filled in public services? They are underpaid, there is a high workload, pensions are uncertain. And if the officials dare to go to the unions, they are threatened, even as a result of legal proceedings. Minister, this is not how you can deal with our heroes, firefighters and women, the people of civil protection, and you name it. All these public services are the driving force behind our society. Let us be clear: we will be there on Tuesday to support the unions!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u15	Madam President, Minister, exactly a year ago I was in the same place and you were in the same place. We were talking about the same place, especially the Blaarmeersen in Ghent. At the time, there were problems with young people making amok on the train. Now, a year later, history repeats itself and there are again young people who make amok in public transport, on the bus, in the train and in the stations. The Flemish interest has often questioned you about the security problem, but the incidents are piling up. I'm thinking of Liedekerke and Ypres. In Izegem, someone recently jumped off a moving train. It seems to be very easy to do. One waits for the train to drive, one pushes the button, the door opens and one jumps out. It's all possible with SNCB. A cable theft here, a cable theft there. Train traffic must be stopped every time. Last week it reached a high point on the Brussels-Ostend line, which is now becoming infamous. About seventy young people harassed passengers, pulled the emergency brake and ran on the tracks. The result was that the train stopped for an hour and the passengers were without communication or air conditioning. SNCB's staff is there with their hands in their hair. They can't handle all the problems anymore. They're undermanned. They can't ask for leave anymore. That's rejected every time. There are 90,000 compensatory rest days open that they can't answer. They have no perspective on a solution. So what's the result? Well, then we'd better get rid of the trains for lack of staff. In March 2022 there are about 1,280 trains that have not driven. They were abolished because of a lack of staff. Then one would think this would solve itself, but no. We are now at the end of May and we must now also abolish peak hour trains. People need these trains to go back to work and home. When are we gonna fix this? SNCB says she'll look into it. If there's staff again, the trains will be running again. The chaos at SNCB is unseen under your policy, Mr Gilkinet. My question is simple: how will you solve that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u16	Madam President, Mr Toventors, I have asked SNCB for a report on the incident. On a train from Ostend to Eupen, a number of people caused a lot of nuisance on Sunday 22 May 2022. The emergency brake has also been pulled and other items on board the train have been damaged. I strongly condemn what happened there. Such behaviour is completely unacceptable, first and foremost for the many travellers who came back from their day on the coast. The lack of respect for the staff and the damage are also unacceptable. The police and the public prosecutor are now conducting the investigation, in which SNCB fully cooperates. We want to insist that these acts are dealt with strictly and that the perpetrators are prosecuted. Once the perpetrators are identified, SNCB reserves the right to recover the costs incurred. We will examine with SNCB, and also in consultation with the railway police and local police, what additional measures will have to be taken in the coming summer. However, what we will not do is generalize or punish the entire class if a student behaves badly. We take every security incident seriously. We'll do the necessary follow-up. Above all, we will do everything possible to prevent such incidents, without stigmatisation or condemnation. Safety and respect are a basic condition for everyone in our society and certainly also in our public space and on the train. This condition will also form an important part of the future public service contract between SNCB and the Federal State.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u17	Minister, your answer sounds very familiar to me. I have heard it many times, but I see very little change. Under your policy, a lot of millions of tax dollars go to SNCB every year. What does the citizen get in return? Abandoned trains, obsolete rolling stock, lack of comfort, reliability and punctuality, lack of service and accessibility, increased insecurity and frustration. That's what the taxpayer gets back. Staff are no longer well-being, either at work or in private life. People are sitting on their gums. You say that you will solve it in the future and that two trains will stop every hour in each station. You also talk about other great plans, but you do not have the rolling stock, you do not have the staff and you do not have the money. You almost seem like someone who wants to build a house and start with the roof. Start with the foundations and ensure that the people get the services of SNCB they deserve: safe, reliable and punctual public transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u18	Mr Minister, the service provided by SNCB is in a bad state of affairs. Last month alone there were 3,800 abolished peak hour trains across the country. In Flanders in particular, however, rail links are inadequate, especially on the lines to the major cities. Pendants no longer have any certainty that they will reach their destination and have no clue. The offer is not reliable this way. As a result, people are in the cold and increasingly turning to the car as a transport solution. In the midst of this rail crisis, you're communicating your big rail vision. We need to double the supply of rail, with double the number of rail passengers, double the number of connections and double the amount of freight. There have to be millions of extra train journeys a year. Mr. Secretary, who are you kidding? You don't even have enough staff and money to secure the offer today, let alone go to a double. Of course you can't. Please don't fool people. Of course, we know what's really going on, what's really going on. You want to profile yourself as the great savior of the railways at all costs. After the policy of your predecessors, you want to be the one who saves the railways, Minister Gilkinet, the knight on the green horse who re-innovates the railways. However, let us be realistic, while you dream about the future and draw out large castles of air, services are crumbling. What are you gonna do now? In what way will you ensure the offer? When do you re-open your eyes? If you do not want to listen to the opposition, or to the train traveller, then perhaps you will listen to the railway workers who will stop against the results of your policy next week. Stop building air castles, keep your feet on the ground and work on a reliable and secure train supply again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u19	Mr Roggeman, as Minister for Mobility, I want trains to travel in our country as they should, every day, today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. The savings on the track of previous governments, including with your party between 2014 and 2018, have had a huge negative impact on SNCB and its staff. These were savings that were independent of a strategic vision. These savings, as well as the circumstances we have had to deal with since 2019, such as the covid pandemic, have a concrete negative impact on the ground on passengers and SNCB staff. Of course, I share your concerns about its impact on services. As you know, a train cannot run without a train attendant. In fact, due to an excessive shortage of staff due to illness, SNCB decided to temporarily abolish 10 peak hour trains from Monday 23 May. This is a decision which SNCB does not like to take, but which is necessary for the safety and predictability of passengers. This situation isn't comfortable, but it's temporary. I am the first to regret such a situation. I have therefore asked SNCB to make additional efforts to recruit even more quickly. This year, SNCB recruits 1,300 new employees, including 260 train escorts. Half of them have already been recruited and are now undergoing training for five months. From next month they will be gradually deployed and these P-trains will be put back on track. Mr Roggeman, by sticking to the suits, we do not feel the strength of change. Today, together with SNCB, we manage the present and the government looks to the future with great ambition. Without ambition, we can't move forward. I can assure you that we are working hard to put SNCB on the path of the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u20	Minister, I understand you correctly, it is the fault of your predecessors, it is the fault of the MR, which has saved. However, I would like to point out that you have received hundreds of millions for your policy. There's hardly a minister in this government who's been served financially as well as you. The amounts and subsidies for the two railway companies are at record level. They're higher than ever before. Every working citizen in this country today pays more than 600 euros per year in amounts for the railways. What does he get in return? A disappointing service, the worst in years. Under Ecolo, rail supply has become more expensive and unreliable than ever before. SNCB's employment policy is also covered in dust. It's the most rigid of the whole country, with unions that...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, together with you, we note that the Liberals do not seem to consider the tax burden in this country to be worthy of question. The liberal fire turns out to be just a faint flame. Minister, the country with the worst budget of all industrialised countries is now also the country with the highest tax burden. Of course, we have known this for a long time, but it does not make the figures less worrying. Working single people see as much as 53% of their wages, i.e. more than half of their hard-earned pennies, disappear in the government's bottomless pits. Two-year-olds with two children see more than 45 euros disappear in the pockets of the government every 100 euros. Belgium wears the red lantern of Europe under the government. That lantern is blood red, so all indicators and institutions judge this country. We therefore wonder what the government wants with this tax reform of yours. At the beginning of this year, your PS colleague, Mr Dermine, stated that we all do not pay too much taxes in Belgium. That's a bold verdict in the country with the highest taxes. Two weeks ago, Mr Ducarme again stated here during Question Time that we need a tax down instead of a tax shift. What will it be, Minister, an increase, a shift or finally a tax cut? You also seem to have lost the Prime Minister's support. He has put forward seven yards for the coming summer. Tax reform is not one of them. Do you want to implement the tax reform itself, or do you want to transfer it, like many other dossiers, to the next government? How will you ensure that purchasing power increases and that the new taxes do not return to the hard-working Flemings?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u22	Mr Minister, the OECD, a respected institution, has, to everyone's surprise, found that we are the tax champion. Of course, she didn't have to publish a study for that, because we knew that a long time ago. However, you will treat us to a tax reform. For the time being it is still a very well-kept secret which direction it goes, but we are all in happy expectation. Critics of the government claim nothing happens in the meantime. However, these OECD figures show that, because nothing happens, something actually happens. A couple with a median income was faced with a tax increase of 1.8 % in the last year. That almost sounds like an index jump. For a median gross income of 3,500 euros, the annual tax increase amounts to 750 euros per person. The hard-working active citizen has thus paid more taxes in the last year. With a couple that is twice 750 euros, so 1,500 euros. While you are busy with all kinds of ideas about tax reforms, citizens pay an extra EUR 1,500 per couple today, because you do nothing. The government is constantly talking about purchasing power measures, while today's citizens pay more taxes in the dive than when you started your job, EUR 1,500 per couple. What will you do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u23	I think we should be proud of the accessible and affordable education in our country, of our good health care and of the strong social safety net in our country. But we also need to be honest. The tax burden, especially on labour, on the other hand, is high, even too high. We do not need a study from the OECD. She's not telling us anything new. We've been number one in that area for years. Despite the fact that we have already made a number of efforts in our country over the past decades to address these problems effectively, the growing margin makes it clear that there is a need for a comprehensive approach. It is precisely for this reason that the government has made it clear with great conviction and ambition that it will pursue a broader fiscal reform. Our current tax system is indeed outdated. It is not adapted to the labour market or to the family compositions as we know them today. And yes, Mr De Roover, there is indeed a direction. This thorough reform is necessary and must indeed ensure that the burden on labour is reduced and that the system becomes fairer, more modern and simpler. On the basis of these objectives, we have already taken some important steps in recent months, such as the reduction of the special social security contribution, the solidarity contribution to securities accounts and the greening of commercial vehicles. But the OECD study is once again pressing us with the facts. It represents the responsibility of all of us to work effectively after years of standstill and to ensure that the tax burden on labour goes down. Colleagues, if you want to bake an omelet, you have to break eggs first. The ambition has been expressed. We need to make this legislature work effectively on the broader fiscal reform, because the OECD wants it, because Europe wants it, because Parliament, majority and opposition, wants it, but above all because our families and our single people want it. That is why the burden on labour has to be reduced, which is why we need to work on the broader fiscal reform. I repeat what I said two weeks ago. We are indeed preparing the blueprint. We will deliver them as soon as possible and, of course, discuss them in the government. I hope and thank you in advance that you will also fully support the reform so that we can make it a success.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u24	Colleagues, we hear a lot about fiscal reform, but ultimately we do not see much wool. For 23 years the liberals have been part of the government and taxes have become the highest in the world. With the government it has only got worse: flight taxes, plastic taxes, securities taxes, higher excise duties on tobacco, extra VAT on small packages, at the dentist and physicist. Think of Van Quickenborne's more expensive fines! Your tax reform is also in danger of becoming another disguised tax increase. In return for all these taxes, we still get a failing service, low pensions, bad roads and a square running justice system. The tampering with the tax cents of the hardworking Flemings must stop. Save on asylum, migration, the political system and transfers, so that those who work, save and undertake in Flanders can finally pay less taxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u25	Minister, you are very ambitious. That's all very nice, but that's not what my question was about. You announce everything, but the concrete situation is that Karel and Sabine, middle-income people, pay more taxes between 2020 and 2021 under your policy. That is EUR 1,500 in purchasing power loss, Minister. You tell great stories here, but I would like you to tell the small story among the people: you don't pay 1,500 euros more taxes because I don't do my job.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u26	Madam President, Minister, the articles available online on the RTBF website, which announce this evening's investigation on the recruitment of nurses abroad, are really cold on the back. The context of a shortage of nurses has been known for a long time, and I am constantly calling you in this direction. The situation is getting worse today: our hospitals face more than 20% of hospital beds in intensive care units or in conventional hospital units closed for lack of nurses. In 2019, 4,900 nursing positions were vacant, 6,000 are vacant today. Many of them leave the trade after about ten years. This serious shortage has clearly created lucrative business opportunities. Thus, agencies recruit nurses, especially in Lebanon, but under what conditions! Hospitals have to pay 10,000 euros per nurse. Nurses recruited abroad are financially blurred and contracts require them to stay in the post for two years, under penalty of a fine of 15,000 euros, and even require nurses not to be pregnant during the same period. These contract clauses, these practices, are totally illegal. That is not all, since frauds also exist on the diploma of nurse. These frauds have now been highlighted more importantly. Mr Minister, I hope you will agree with me that these practices are totally indecent, unacceptable, illegal. It's gravissim. Do you intend to ask the social inspectorate to act as a matter of urgency? In addition, it is essential to implement a plan to increase the attractiveness of this profession.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u27	Ms. Chair, Ms. Fonck, the practices outlined in the Nurse Penury program presented at the RTBF are totally unacceptable. On the ethical front, first, since qualified nurses are deprived of the countries that need them. Secondly, these practices are unacceptable in terms of employment, because the proposed conditions are illegal, if we understand what is happening. In addition, they are unacceptable in terms of public health if it appears that these nurses do not have the necessary skills. The monitoring of labour legislation is the responsibility of my colleague Pierre-Yves Dermagne. I alerted him to the problem and his administration informed me that the inspection is being carried out and that an investigation is under way. I also invite everyone to report specific complaints that will enable an investigation to be initiated. Moreover, it is of course essential that the infirmating staff have the necessary qualifications for the proper performance of their work. In order to remedy the problems that exist, my administration is preparing an adaptation of section 145 of the Act on the Exercise of Health Care Professions. In concrete terms, the aim is to be able to verify the exact skills available to people outside the European Union and to ensure that they correspond to what can be expected from the diploma presented. However, you are right, the bottom line of the problem is a shortage of staff. As I explained yesterday in the Committee on Health, in the coming weeks I wish to finalize all the work and take all the decisions necessary for the implementation of the 2020 social agreement. Once this has been done, I will invite the social partners in the sector to start drawing up, with me, the essential timetable for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u28	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. I expect you to react as strongly as possible to these indecent and illegal practices that must cease immediately. Furthermore, the attractiveness plan is, in my view, the most urgent issue to be addressed in terms of public health policy. In fact, there is now a real deterioration in the continuity of care. Some care is postponed following the closure of many hospital beds. The safety of patients is also impaired. Of course, there is a social agreement, but it has been years since the nurses put forward reasonable proposals on supervisory standards, on working conditions, on the upgrading and recognition of specializations, on the recognition of penitibility for the pension, all concrete and reasonable measures, but urgent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u29	Madam President, Minister, you may have seen the report of PAN Europe yesterday. 34 percent of our fruit contains residues or residues of harmful pesticides. On pears it is even 87 %. That is strange, because in a country like Denmark, which is comparable to Belgium, it is only 7% of fruit. Another interesting report from UNICEF came out yesterday. In our country, one child in 12 is exposed to pesticides, even to such a high degree that they are at risk of cancers and a disturbed hormone effect. That is not new, because last year the OECD pointed to the challenges of pesticides and biodiversity. Minister, I am concerned about that. Although the BFSA is trying to reassure us by saying that 97% of the samples do not exceed the standards, I am concerned about the cocktail of harmful effects that we get every day. It is never measured whether we exceed the standard of different substances together and what the effect is on our body, and especially on the body of young children and vulnerable groups. What do you think is the explanation for these high grades? Is it because of our agricultural policy or because of the regulations? Next year, the new National Action Plan for the Reduction of Pesticides, the NAPAN, which we have already worked on, will come into force. Do these figures make you more ambitious to boost that plan and go beyond what is ahead? There is another important strategy at European level, the Farm to Fork strategy, which says we should have 50% less of those harmful pesticides on our plate by 2030. How are you going to use this study to boost those ambitions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u30	Minister, this study by Pesticides Action Network must indeed challenge us. I believe that it causes concerns in the population which are obviously legitimate, since they are public health problems. We know, Minister, your commitment to quality consumption, to a food sector that provides quality products, and to quality agriculture in our country. But we are, of course, challenged by this study and by the figures that are presented. Belgium would be the wrong student in the use of plant protection products, in any case as regards the presence of residues. I would therefore like you to inform us, Minister, about this study and how the figures are presented. What exactly is this? What are the relationships between the presence of residues and toxicity thresholds? What is the role of AFSCA in this regard? What are the controls carried out by it? We are aware of the significant activity of the AFSCA in this sector. It is important that you clarify the conclusions that the AFSCA can draw from these multiple analyses. What is Belgium's position on the European strategy for the use of plant protection products?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u31	Minister, the Belgians are paying more and more attention to their consumption of food. Recently, a poll revealed that almost three-quarters of our citizens chose to consume healthy products. While millions of Belgians are willing to make efforts for their health, the health of their families, the health of their children or simply for themselves, this week we learned that fruit contaminated with toxic pesticides, although banned in Europe, had increased by 53% in just nine years. Worse still, 34% of cherries, apples, blackberries, peaches or strawberries placed on the market in Belgium would show traces of harmful substances. Minister, 34% is more than any other country in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today I wanted to give you personal confidence. I recently learned a happy news. In a few months, I'm gonna be a mom. [[Applause from the European Democratic Group]] [[)]] I've been getting ready for weeks. I have treated my diet and, like thousands of other women in Belgium, I want to ensure that my child can develop under the best conditions. Like millions of women but also men in this country, I will do everything I can to ensure that my child can flourish in a healthy environment. And there, in a moment, we learn that, despite all these attentions, all these efforts, they might not have been used for anything. Because of some producers, the health of our families is put at risk simply by chewing an apple. This is simply shameful and unacceptable. In 2022, in our country, with all the control procedures, all the measures taken to prevent this from happening (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Hanus, for your question. Your time has expired. No one hears your words anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand your concerns and I am very committed to having as healthy a food as possible in our country. I very much regret the misleading comments made by PAN Europe at the moment. The use of pesticides in the cultivation of fruit and vegetables may result in residues in food and feed. That's quite normal. It is important to distinguish between the presence of residues in crops and the exceedance of the maximum permitted residue limits. The maximum permitted residue limits are set in European legislation on the basis of scientific studies so that the correct use of plant products can be verified in order to protect the health of consumers. Limits are not toxicological limits. Therefore, exceeding the limit does not necessarily – and rarely even – pose a potential danger to the consumer. There is a margin of safety between the established limit and the potential risk. The AFSCA is a control agency, which means that it verifies whether the existing legislation is complied with by the operators. Control results indicate a high level of compliance of 97.4%! If these limits are exceeded or less than 3% of the samples are exceeded, the BFSA will always take measures to prevent the food in question from being used. The fruit and vegetables in question are withdrawn from the market. In 2020, the BFSA checked 3.855 samples of residues of plant protection products in food. During such an analysis, 400 to 600 different molecules per steel are controlled. Thanks to this very wide screening, Belgium belongs to the three best European Member States. This explains why there are more traces of pesticides in Belgium than in other Member States which, for their part, only analyse 200 molecules per sample. It's obvious that if we don't look for the molecules, we certainly won't find them. So I really regret the spread, by some green lobbies, of intellectually dishonest information through this study.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I welcome NGOs such as PAN Europe, which provide us with information that EFSA apparently does not give us. In the absence of reliable data, they rely on sales figures. You honk that a reduction of 35% brings us to the best students in the class, but that too is intellectually incorrect. That is only about the percentage that is allowed on the European market and not about bee killers like neonicotinoids, for which you have been making exceptions for two years in a row. They're not in those good grades. Because according to the correct figures, we are not doing well. Minister, if you really take the slogan "One World, One Health" seriously, you will be working with the correct figures to boost the ambitions of the National Action Plan for the Reduction of Pesticides, so that we will effectively get 50% less of those harmful products on our plate by 2030.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answer. On the one hand, we obviously need to be very vigilant about the public health standards of all our consumer products. But your response to the controls of the Federal Agency for Food Chain Safety (AFSCA) reassured us on this subject. On the other hand, we must keep a critical mind about the different studies that are published on a wide variety of subjects. We must not take everything for cash, but analyse with a critical mind the whole of these studies and not sink into an ill-placed guilt. We must be proud of our agri-food sector, which produces and allows us to consume very high quality. Let me remind you that it is important to consume five servings of fruits and vegetables to bring all the nutrients necessary for our health on a daily basis!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u36	Minister, we expect you to have full clarity on this matter and to have the necessary action taken. I repeat, it is unacceptable for such substances to be found in our fruits. I understand that you are trying to adopt a reassuring posture; however, an American study has pointed out that the presence of pesticides on fruits and vegetables is likely to cancel the benefits of their consumption for our health. In addition, it should be recalled that the presence in foods of many pesticides even permitted can disrupt metabolism by what is called the cocktail effect. We cannot accept this risk. We expect you to take the necessary steps. This is your responsibility. In conclusion, Minister, rather than arguing for limiting unemployment benefits or index breaks, we ask you to make protecting the health of our fellow citizens a non-negotiable priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u37	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. De Croo and Mrs De Sutter are today at the Davos World Economic Forum. Yesterday, the Prime Minister made it clear that he wanted to meet NATO's demand to invest 2% of GDP in the defence budget. However, it is surprising to see the right-wing parties – who usually claim that there is no money to help households honour their gas and electricity bills, to reduce the tax on gas at the pump, to reduce workers' travel costs or to let people retire at a decent age – responding to a demand to increase military spending. You've already decided to do this up to two billion a year. It is now being requested to raise it to an additional investment of five billion. Minister, today people are suffering because of the war and rising prices. The military expenditures of all NATO members are seventeen times higher than those of a country such as Russia. To increase them more so that they reach eighteen times those of the same country is not going to bring us anything. Every euro that will be dedicated to the defence budget will not be invested where needs are felt: in pensions and health care, among other things. My question will therefore be very clear, Madam Minister, because you have not been heard much so far in this debate: in which direction are you going to direct the Defence budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the well-being of our people obviously depends on our safety. Mrs Merckx, like any citizen, you want to live in good health, but you also want to live in safety. This is an essential need. That is why Belgian Defence exists: to ensure that we can continue to live safely. So that everyone can live freely and flourish. Over the past few months, we have always advocated dialogue and de-escalation, and we will continue to focus on the peaceful resolution of conflicts. But neither can you put your head in the sand and make it look like everything is still like before. You yourself see the horrors of war, the damage inflicted on Ukraine and its people. The reconstruction of the country will cost several hundred billions and the socio-economic situation of the country will take many years before it returns to what it was before February 24, 2022. More broadly, millions of people are affected by the impact of the maritime blockade on food security. So, whether we like it or not, with this war on the European continent, we are referred to a past that we all thought was over. Is that what we have to do with weapons? No. That is neither what I want nor what I propose. My responsibility is to ensure that our Defence is able to ensure our own security. When I took office I inherited, as you know, a disinvested department. Since the mid-1990s, Defence's budget has been declining, and personnel have often been this adjustment variable for successive fiscal years. Since taking office, I have been working on the reconstruction of this department and on the affirmation of its role for the benefit of the Nation. This included Defence's commitment to managing the crisis of the covid-19 and floods. These are all situations that illustrate the need – and even the need – for an army that acts for the benefit of our citizens, regardless of the nature of the crisis (sanitary, security or natural disaster), in Belgium and abroad. In the broader context of the crises that affect us all, the government's responsibility is to enable Defence to assume its role. This is accompanied by the necessary budget to carry out this policy. The STAR (Security, Technology, Ambition, Resilient) plan, validated by the government on February 25, 2022, is accompanied by a budget that has a growth path to reach 1.54% of GDP by 2030. This means that 98.46% of our wealth is devoted to other things. This trajectory takes into account the fact that our country obviously needs to invest in (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u39	Minister, although this matter is very important, I must interrupt you to ensure that the time allotted to this issue is respected. I cannot let you close, it is unreasonable to double your speaking time. I give the floor to Mrs Merckx for her reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u40	Madam Chair, Minister, you have not answered my question. I don't know if that's because you didn't have the opportunity to read your entire written answer. But my question was very specific. Today, the right-wing parties are asking for investment in the military budget, which the PTB is opposed to, and they expect left-wing parties, which are part of the government, to do the same. That's, by the way, the reason I called you. But I still haven't heard you on this issue. In any case, it is not by increasing the military budget and investing in armaments that more security can be ensured. Instead, we must use another path, that of diplomacy. It is in this way that we can guarantee more security for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u41	Madam Secretary, a new spring, a new beginning. It does start all over again. It seems like an annual tradition that at the first warm temperatures certain young people go out to cause problems. In Ghent young people caused a nuisance on their way to and in the recreation area De Blaarmeersen. In Willebroek, the incidents with young people are piling up. It is really hallucinating that last Sunday an overcrowded train had to be evacuated after young people had pulled the emergency brake. It may be a small minority who gets rid of malicious behavior, causing a lot of nuisance. Other young people and families who want to enjoy a day out are the victims, just like our security services and bus and tram drivers. Much is expected of the local authorities and indeed take up the glove to reduce the nuisance. In Ghent, among other things, it has been decided that the police will escort the buses to the recreation area. In Willebroek, the mayor proposed the introduction of a cooperation ban in certain places. In my city of Ninove I have issued several prohibitions. However, more is needed. We have a problem in our country with a group of young people who do not comply with the rules, damage public transport, disturb public order and scare the public with their aggression. We must not polarize or stigmatize. However, we must face the problem and dare to name it. There is no excuse for the recent events that have appeared in the press. Have you had contacts with local authorities to map the problem? What will you do preventively in the long term and proactively in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u42	Mrs De Jonge, unfortunately this is not a new phenomenon. Those young people who visit these recreational areas and the coast must understand that this is not possible. We have to keep giving them that message. We must ensure that we not only focus on repression but also on prevention. This is not just the task of the Minister of the Interior, it must be done together with local authorities and the Länder. Because it is a well-known phenomenon, last year I launched a circular on the nuisance in recreational areas and in coastal zones. In the meantime, it has been questioned by all parties involved, including local authorities. So we were in contact with them and they have been positively evaluated: there is a range of possibilities to act. For example, the mayors or local authorities can impose GAS fines. The owners of the recreational areas can issue an entry ban and local authorities can also impose a place ban. That information comes into the General Database so that the police can check more quickly whether or not someone is subject to a place ban. All these measures are already in place. In addition, this year the police are making a difference. There has been consultation with SNCB to put priority on the stations and places where a lot of people are expected in good weather. We have also worked with the mayors and the governor of West Flanders on a plan to strengthen the coast so that enough police are sent out to those specific zones to deal with the nuisance. Before the incident in De Blaarmeersen, the local and federal police have been conspired to do that even better. So we follow up on this, especially with the local authorities. The police were very quick to get to the scene of the incident on the train from Ghent. All of the unsubs have been identified immediately. It's now up to the public prosecutors and the Justice Department to prosecute. So we're working on it, but I'm working on it with all the actors involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u43	Madam Minister, a great deal is already being done on the ground. We must all send out the message that we are absolutely not going to tolerate violence and intimidation. Each level of policy must assume its responsibilities, which requires an integrated approach. However, we also need to respond to the parents. Local administrators know their city and know what the problems are, but they need to be well supported, which of course happens. I refer, for example, to the pilot project set up by the city of Ninove and the CICOV, where the police on the ground are controlled by camera images. For example, last week we were able to avoid a fight. We cannot accept that people feel unsafe and that their freedom is hindered by hotheads who make it too furious. This requires cooperation and a tailor-made approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u44	Minister, it is May 25, 2022, and to date, your government still has no agreement with ENGIE, no certainty of extending two nuclear reactors or the foundation stone of a possible new gas-fired power plant. On the other hand, we have displays in the press. A co-president of the Ecolo party tells us that negotiations with ENGIE are going badly and a president of the MR – with a perception of government loyalty that belongs to him – replies that if it goes wrong, it would be your fault. In the end, there are a lot of questions and concerns as time is running out and the winters 2025 and 2026 arrive without a supply solution. We have said that since last March, for us, the agreement on the so-called extension of two reactors has not worked out anything and even plunges us into more uncertainty. Minister, what is the current status of negotiations with ENGIE on the extension of these two reactors? What is the cost that the federal government is prepared to bear, not so much for this extension but for the late decision of this extension? Are you still hiding on a CRM resurrection in case these negotiations are not successful? In the current state of affairs, can you guarantee us a sufficient supply of energy to spend the winters 2025 and 2026?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u45	Minister, it is May 25, 2022 and next Wednesday we will be in June. You were instructed on 18 March with the Prime Minister to negotiate with ENGIE the extension of two nuclear reactors, Doel 4 and Tihange 3. We know that four meetings have already taken place, although there has been some difficulty in the way negotiations or non-negotiations are currently taking place. We know that negotiations of this magnitude do not take place on a corner table in a few hours, but in several weeks. Madam Minister, will you or will you not be able to reach a suitable agreement with ENGIE by the beginning of June, which will inevitably include issues relating to nuclear supplies, how they are dealt with and the possible investment of the state in this configuration, when the mandate is very clear in this respect? Will we have enough electricity by 2025, so as of January 1, 2026, with the energy stock as it will be configured at that time, as long as your operation with ENGIE succeeds?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, you are right. Today is 25 May. Tomorrow we will be on the 26th, the day after tomorrow on the 27th. Day after day, we continue the work. Negotiations with ENGIE must be conducted with the greatest possible attention, regardless of the date. Negotiations with ENGIE on the terms of the 10-year extension of 2 GW were initiated by the Prime Minister and myself, in tandem, as part of the mandate agreed by the government. This tandem works well. Negotiations must be conducted in the utmost discretion and, in due course, I will send you the necessary information. You asked about security of supply and whether there will be enough energy by 2025. Of course I do! This government does not take any risks with security of supply. This is why the capacity compensation mechanism (CRM), or support mechanism, has been developed. An auction was launched and won. The problem of the Vilvoorde gas plant has been solved and I assure you that there is enough electricity. This situation is monitored day after day, with great attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u47	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. We are reassured about the timetable. Indeed, after the 25th, there will be the 26th and then the 27th of May. When we go back to the history of this case, we find out that the Vivaldi is taking us from date to date. In October 2020, you refused to make a decision by saying that you would see in November 2021. Then you walked us through March 2022. There, they all hope for an end to the negotiations in June this year. Understand that the opposition, but also some members of the majority, is in some perplexity while waiting for this file to land. Every time a track is drawn, a member of your majority, at least, makes you a stick. For my part, I still think that the extension of nuclear power is the only solution, and that building gas-fired power plants will bring us another 30 or 40 million tonnes of CO2. I hear that it must not be done at any price, and that these negotiations are not well-set. We trust you relatively to come back in a week or two with certainties and no longer as much uncertainty and chimera.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u48	Minister, thank you for your answers. It's great to show you can count. After the 25th, it's 26, 27, etc. But we are not impatient. In fact, like ENGIE, we have long been waiting to know the exact position of the government. Every time you are asked about security of supply, you come back with the CRM mechanism, while you are not even sure, today, that the new gas plants, which you call your wishes, will be built in time and time. Perhaps you would like to prove that, at the intermediate point between the extension of these plants and the start of the operation of this extension which, according to ENGIE, is expected to arrive at the end of 2026, early 2027, your gas plants will compensate for the gap during these two years. Well, that's what we'll see. One thing is certain, it is that you know how to count one day after another, but we will also be able to look at the results of this policy which does not reassure us. We do not know today whether, in the end, we will have enough electricity from the end of 2025 and that is a big problem! (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u49	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since Corona left, traffic has become much more crowded again and, unfortunately, the risk of an accident has also increased considerably. That is why we are once again in the situation of three years ago, Minister, when more than 600 people lost their lives on our roads. In other words, our country is on the ground with regard to road safety. That does not have to be the case, as the figures in our neighbouring countries show. Of course, Minister, we cannot accept this, all the more so because we know that one of the main causes is the laxity with which we deal with road pirates, with people who, over and over and over and over again, drive too fast, or who, apparently, do not realise that they are playing Russian roulette with the lives of other road users. Colleagues, this group alone accounts for 1 in 3 accidents in this country. For Forward, it is clear that the current approach will not change that. What we need to do is to take people who continue to go wrong and put other lives in danger off the road. That's exactly what the driver's license does with points. Those who continue to make mistakes will be punished more severely. We've known that for 30 years. That is what is now in a report from the VIAS you have ordered, Minister. The point driving licence prevents accidents and saves lives. So what the hell are we waiting for to work on it at last? Mr. Secretary, you embraced that report yesterday. You said you wanted to do more for road safety. You said it's urgent, and it's necessary. I agree with that analysis. It is now time to draw the right conclusion. I would therefore ask you to confirm unequivocally that you will ensure that the driving licence with points finally arrives in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u50	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think we all agree that the number of victims on our roads is too high. I hope from the bottom of my heart that we all want this number to be drastically reduced. If we look at the recent figures from Vias, we can see that there is still a lot of work to be done. Vias published this week his study on the driving licence with points. This file resurfaces after years. The law has existed for 32 years, but it never came into force in our country, although it already exists in many other European countries. The conclusions of the study are nuanced. It strengthens the approach to the repetition, but of course it is not a panacea. My group is in favour of the driving licence with points, but for the Open Vld it is essential that we do not bully the hard-working Fleming who commits a number of minor offences. Nor should we meet the commuter or the home nurse who is very often on the track and, for example, commits a parking violation that does not endanger anyone. We do, of course, want to meet the people who have irresponsible behaviour behind the wheel, who get drunk behind the wheel and put others at risk. I am very curious to hear your views on this, Minister. Do you follow us here and what steps will you take after the publication of the study?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u51	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it has been mentioned a few times that road safety in our country is not going well. Apart from some corona effects, we've been chattering at the same level for about five years and we can't get the number of victims down any further. We must be well aware of this and consider what measures we can take to reduce the number of victims, because that is what we are doing in the end. We could think again of increasing the fines and increasing certain maximum penalties, but we have done so on a number of occasions, and I think that we are gradually colliding with their limits. We need to look for more effective and efficient measures. The coalition agreement contains a number of interesting slopes. It concerns the strengthening of enforcement, Minister Verlinden is working hard on the objectives in this area, and on an alternative system to better monitor, tackle and remove the people who repeatedly commit offences, the so-called recidivists. That's how we get to the driver's license with points. I sometimes get the impression that's a loaded term. Some people are right on their backs when it comes to this, so we need to frame what we are talking about. The driving licence with points is not a purely repressive system, quite the contrary. It also contains preventive and sensitising elements and makes it possible to target the most serious offenders in traffic. In this way we can save victims, which should be the objective of any traffic measure we take. It is very important that we remove the driving licence with points from the polarisation and that we go for it fully, with all parties together. In this way we can get the dramatic road safety statistics in the right direction. I look forward to your plans, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u52	Madam President, Minister, 111 victims on our roads, 50% of them two wheels and pedestrians, 10,000 injured, are the results of the last quarterly barometer 2022 of the Vias Institute on safety on our roads. Behind these figures are victims, families, friends, as was the case in Strépy-Bracquegnies or other places. Mr. Minister, road safety is an area where we can only be satisfied with excellence. Given these numbers, it's a duty. The latest study by the Vias Institute allows us to situate ourselves in relation to these issues. The findings are clear: mortality on our roads is higher than the European average. We are also bad students in a number of categories, including speeding, especially around schools, but also at the level of alcohol driving. Another observation is that, compared to our European neighbours, there is greater tolerance in our country for the recurrence of so-called minor offences, but which may affect the safety and life of others. Recidivism also increases the likelihood of causing and being involved in an accident. In Belgium, on this aspect, as long as the income follows, these offences may be collected without any other form of sanction. The Vias Institute offers solutions to this issue, including the automatic registration of infringements with mandatory training or the withdrawal of the licence. Environmentalists in the north and south of the country subscribe to this type of approach, where class justice is used more effectively to combat recidivism and multi-recidivists. We have to act! It is about ending impunity. Together with your colleagues at the federal level, you are leading the All For Zero strategy. How do you welcome this last study from the Vias Institute? How do you intend to contribute to this debate on recidivism? What is your work schedule for this file? In conclusion, let me repeat: after the debate will have to come the time for action!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u53	Minister, barely published, the long study of the Vias Institute on point licensing is already running a lot of ink. Analysis of each other's reactions reveals that many see it as confirmation of their deepest convictions. However, the findings of this study are extremely nuanced. Thus, it states that the point permit has a beneficial effect for those who risk losing their last point. At the same time, it states that those with a lot of points may tend to commit more offences because of their reserve of points. In another sense, according to its implementation, this permit can be either socially fairer or create new inequalities. The Vias Institute also says it is unable to identify the impact of this permit on the number of people killed on our roads. The debate is inexhaustible, but what matters to us is not theory but reality, especially the number of people killed on our roads. However, as the Vias Institute points out, the point permit alone is not an answer against recidivism. The way in which it is implemented and the means that are generally devoted to road safety are paramount. Thus, the study rightly insists that nothing will replace actions on the ground, investment to increase the risk of being taken and an increase in the number of awareness-raising campaigns. What follow-up will you give to the Vias Institute's study on point licensing? Will you consider a comprehensive framework that will give relevance to the point permit? How can the means invested in the point permit be prevented from identifying offences and raising public awareness?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u54	Colleagues, a few weeks ago, we were here very emotionally after the tragedy of Strépy-Bracquegnies, all mobilized for greater road safety. I had the opportunity to say that at that time: it is a real problem, a real tragedy. This road insecurity generates tragedies, broken lives, dislocated families. We must fight road insecurity, not only by convincing more people to take less dangerous means such as the train, but also by concrete, effective, proportionate and courageous measures. In 2020, 15 children lost their lives on our roads, 215 were seriously injured. Of course, we cannot accept it, neither for children, nor for adults. We cannot stand idly by in the face of such tragedies. The tragedy in Strépy shows that we have not yet won the fight against road safety. We are now back at the sad level of the number of road deaths before the corona crisis. That number has to go down; that's my priority. Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, mobile phones behind the wheel and excessive speed are dangerous for the driver himself, but also for others, especially for vulnerable road users. The faster one drives, the more dangerous it gets. That is why last week I proposed that penalties for excessive speed should be made more progressive. More dangerous behaviour should be punished more severely. I am pleased that the initial reactions, both from my Flemish colleague Lydia Peeters and from Vias, to my proposal are positive. I'll work on that. We also need to deal with repeated cases. We have committed ourselves to this in the Federal Road Safety Plan, which we have been working on since then with colleagues from Justice and Home Affairs. We note that those who repeat dangerous driving behaviour over and over again and ride like a Formula 1 circuit or in a rally are the most dangerous on the road, but still too often go unpunished. Anyone who repeats dangerous driving behaviour can simply open his wallet and pay fines, but keep his license. However, relapsers are much more often involved in accidents. You can't do that anymore. After too many years of surplacen, as for other files for which I have been competent for a year and a half, I really want to make progress on that dossier. That's why I'm being systematic. First, I come to the general principle. The Federal Road Safety Plan, entitled All for Zero, states that we are going to go back and forth. Secondly, we are going to have a new study carried out, as laid down in the coalition agreement, with a very interesting and useful content, on which I shall return. Thirdly, we have good discussions with the various stakeholders, my fellow Justice and Home Affairs ministers, the police, the Attorney General and road safety specialists, such as Vias. Fourthly, we are coming up with concrete measures that we are now preparing. The study at Vias I ordered is an important part of the puzzle. I have various interesting elements. The overwhelming majority of countries in Europe have a mechanism to combat recidivism for dangerous driving behaviour. Belgium is one of the few countries not to have it. Belgium has an effective mechanism to combat recidivism only for the most serious and virtually inoperable offences for other offences, including systematic speeding. If they are not registered, there is an immediate perception. Our tracking system for traffic offences does not take sufficient account of recidivism. Recidivists are more likely to cause accidents than other drivers. It is possible – this is the conclusion of the Vias Institute – to improve road safety in Belgium by optimising the system for recording and monitoring recidivism. This would make it possible to consider more effectively alternative sanctions of an educational type whose effectiveness is better demonstrated. Vias advocates introducing a driving licence with points into a combined system. This study by Vias is really useful in finalizing the work that started a few months ago with my colleagues from Justice and the Interior. Our intention is to take the best of every system in Europe in terms of point permits to put on the government table by 21 July an effective and targeted system to combat the recurrence of dangerous driving behaviour. Secondly, we will be able to monitor the legislative work and obtain the necessary means – particularly in the area of computerisation and data exchange – to bring this project to life. Road insecurity, the intolerable number of road victims in our country, is not a fatality. We fight them with order, method and consultation. And as with other cases that are too long stuck, we intend, together with the Vivaldi government, to bring the best solutions. That is my very clear intention as Minister for Mobility, as well as that of my colleagues in Justice and the Interior. We will continue to convince the government as a whole and the majority to move forward in this direction. Every victim of the road is a victim of too many!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u55	Minister, you quoted very well from the Vias study which advocates the introduction of a driving licence with points in our country. This can indeed be combined with all kinds of other measures. Let us be clear and unambiguous about this: the driving licence with points has been in the law for 32 years. In the meantime, 22 countries in Europe have introduced it, but we are moving on the ground. There are 600 dead and 45,000 injured a year. How much longer will we study, nuance and chipoter before we do what we decided a long time ago? Mr. Secretary, you're doing the right analysis. I'm counting on you to actually do this. Before the summer, I would like to welcome your proposal to ensure that the driving licence is finally introduced into Parliament with points.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u56	Mr Minister, low-flyers and anti-social, irresponsible drivers must indeed be treated more strictly. The point driving licence is an appropriate instrument for this, at least if it is intended to put drivers at risk by e.g. driving drunk or recovering repeaters from traffic more quickly. Then you will find an ally in Open Vld for the driving licence with points. However, if the intention is to take away drivers who are on the job and who are therefore committing several minor offences, such as minimum speed violations, their necessary driving licences, then we will fit in with this bullying measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u57	Mr. Secretary, it's about time. On our roads 40,000 road victims, 3,000 seriously injured and more than 600 dead each year. If we were faced with such figures in other systems, such as aviation or rail transport, we would quickly shut them down. In traffic, we let everything go. It is therefore high time that the decisive measures and plans, on which Vias has carried out a good study, were effectively implemented on the ground. The law was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 18 July 1990. Some adjustments are needed, but our legislative proposals are on the table. Vias' study is ready. So there's no reason to wait anymore. We must hurry and finally make the driving licence with points a reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. It is clear that this is a long study and full of nuances. We must approach it without fetishism but also without taboo. More controls are included in the government agreement, as is increased awareness. But the associations of relatives of victims and Vias tell us that the black spot in road safety in Belgium is recidivism. We must therefore act! After the analysis will have to come the time of the acts. I'm counting on you. After 32 years of immobilization, it is indeed time to take action!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u59	Mr Minister, I agree with you, of course, when you say that every victim on the road is a victim of too many, but let us not fall into the illusion of believing that the point permit would be the solution to all the problems! The hundreds of deaths, every year on our roads, demand hundreds of actions from the authorities. Theoretical debates should not distract us from reality. Above all, it is on the ground that controls and awareness-raising campaigns need to be strengthened.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u60	Good afternoon, Minister. I have noted a number of things you have said. You said that we will evolve in that direction. That doesn't really show much ambition, Joris and Jef. The force of action doesn't really splash off. That is the least we can say about this. The French colleagues had a lot of reservations and I heard a lot of 'but','maybe' and 'we'll see'. I have the impression that the differences between the positions are largely similar to the language border. That doesn't surprise me at all. When I look at the views of the previous legislature, what is happening today was written in the stars. As of today, the point driving licence is yet another open problem for this vivaldi club, while 30 years ago everyone was convinced of what had to be done. Although the point driving licence is an excellent means of preventing repeaters in traffic, although the recent Vias study clearly states what needs to be done and despite good practice in many neighbouring countries, there is still no agreement on it. It is, of course, easy to say in vague terms about road safety as a priority. In practical terms, however, that is another matter. In fact, you are once again being held hostage by Mr Bouchez, who openly in the De Morgen today openly took up the idea of the driving licence, even before we had the opportunity to discuss the form and the modalities in the committee. I will continue to ask you about your position and continue to urge you to move in the right direction. I will also continue to ask you about the way in which you have tried to withhold the Vias study from Parliament, because there are a lot of questions about this too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u61	Colleagues, what a civil display this is. We are actually holding a hemisphere here to cover yet another disagreement within the Vivaldi government. That's what we're actually doing. Should I, as a Flemish Interester, now come here to quote and defend the coalition agreement? That's the last thing I'm gonna do. It clearly states that you are going to study it, that other studies would be refined, that alternatives would be investigated. That's on the table in committee. If the report from Vias is there, we'll be sent to the committee for walks. But then all the parties of the Vivaldi government will communicate in advance in the press in order to try to make their move at home. Then there's gonna be a problem. There is a blue brigade in the government that is not so much in favour. Then the anti-motorists' parties shoot CD&V and Forward into a cramp and say that they will present this to the plenary before it is discussed in committee, so Minister Gilkinet can say here that it will be there. That's actually what happens. There's been a fight in the vivaldibarak. It's another fight. I find it totally disrespectful of the committee's work. All the advice has yet to be looked at there. Vias is not due for a hearing until 21 June, but it has already been said that it needs to be done and that it is already going to be enforced by the partners in the government. It's very civil. This majority is staggering. Go ahead and fight. I await the debate in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u62	Minister, thank you for your answer. We were waiting for a little serenity in this one. At MR, I confirm that we are also very attentive to road safety. As has been said and repeated, a death on the road is a death of too many. We also want to stress that this study by the Vias Institute, of which we take note, is nuanced. Care must be taken to ensure that these nuances are well integrated into the decisions to be taken. We are at the beginning of a long parliamentary process. It's a first stone that was laid. On 21 June, we will receive the Vias Institute in committee. We will be able to exchange with them and have additional information so as to shed much more light on us. This study has only been available for a few hours. In your answer, you say that you are going to consult with your government colleagues. I would also like you to consult with the governments of the Regions in such a way that we know their views. They also have a say in road safety. I will conclude with an expression dear to rurality and to the Reform Movement: we must not put the plough before the oxen.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u63	Madam President, Minister, excuse me for being late. It took me two and a half hours to drive from Ostend to Brussels. No, I didn't come by train. Then it probably would have lasted even longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u64	Minister, according to the World Economic Forum in Davos, we are forty-sixth place in the world in terms of the state of our road network. We are after Rwanda and Swasiland in terms of road network. I'll put that aside. I've lost a lot of time. If the real criminals cannot be punished, then the crumb thieves must be caught. Minister, Mr Vandenbroucke is being punished again. You're supposed to know the law. In 2015, the law establishing that two serious infringements are considered to be repeated was introduced. I also hear you saying that whoever is drunk can get his license again. That is not true, Minister. I don't know from my own experience, but sometimes I come among people. People always argue that laws are made by ministers with a driver and a car under their ass and by Parliaments with a train ticket in first class. Nevertheless, only 7% of people take the train. I'll follow the P.S. now. I feel sorry for the worker who needs his car like a carpenter's hammer. I have to deal with the six million people who have a car and the 65 percent that the car needs to go to work. Mr Vandenbroucke, we have been repressive for years. We have just spoken to Minister Van Quickenborne. The margin of error no longer counts. There's a haunted mess in front of the motorist. That is why, Minister, I am asking for a little common sense. Think. If you want to catch the crumb thieves, you should know that half of the offences are not offences, but mistakes that are made. People have the right to make mistakes. It is not possible for them to be robbed immediately. After losing the driving licence have to re-do the exam, it does not take 14 days or three months. That could take a year. In addition, for those who still have to do psychological tests, there will be another year on top of that. First, make sure the system's okay. Then stop the repression on man. However, it is now too emotional a debate. Perhaps a major debate will follow, and I will speak for an hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u65	This concludes the oral question-and-answer session.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u66	The next item is the debate on the draft law on compulsory vaccination of health care professionals against VOCID-19 (2533/1-8).
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u67	Madam President, let us be honest, anyone who walks in the wings knows that the enthusiasm for this bill is very small in the majority too, but there are times when there is such a thing as majority discipline. That is also the case here. So let colleagues wrap their arms around them. It is, of course, quite bizarre that today we should deal with a draft law on compulsory vaccination against COVID-19 of healthcare professionals, under the persistent stubbornness of Minister Vandenbroucke. However, this is a very important matter. We have tabled a number of amendments, on which we would very much like to know the opinion of the Council of State, so that perhaps, in the meantime, not only legal matters can be refined, but also a little common sense can be restored. That is why we are asking for this draft to be sent to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u68	Madam President, we are called upon to discuss the law on the obligation to vaccinate for health-care workers, a law that could be called "no vaccine, no employment". It is obvious that from the outset, the PTB-PVDA was opposed to it as was the caregiving staff. This law is completely disproportionate. All measures to combat covid-19 have now been lifted, there are no masks on public transport, but medical staff who would not be vaccinated will be dismissed. It's shameful! In addition, the vaccine does not protect others from contamination. It is a purely repressive project and other countries such as England, but also Germany and Austria, have gone backwards. In England, for example, compulsory vaccination had been started, but a large number of people had left the sector, so the law was withdrawn. The Vivaldi government wants to push the nail, send a C4 to unvaccinated people. This constitutes a real danger to public health. Today, we can't get out of our hands in hospitals; we need everyone. The PTB-PVDA Group has also tabled amendments and we also ask for referral to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u69	Madam President, you know our opinion on this bill. The discussion and the vote in committee were very clear: we are not in favour of the total counterproductive duty imposed by Minister Vandenbroucke, while he is now wondering how he can make the profession more attractive. You know that we are a democratic party, which uses all the democratic means to adjust such a dragon from a design, and preferably to stop it. We have therefore lodged a conflict of interest in the Flemish Parliament, but unfortunately it has not achieved a majority. We did not get the support of all the parties who, fortunately, support the opposition to this draft today. We have also tabled amendments which we would like to submit to the Council of State for its opinion. They need to be legally reviewed. This can provide valuable time so that other parties can come to their senses, if not already, that this is a dragon of a design.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in particular, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the bill you support is not about the obligation to vaccinate. This is a bill for the dismissal of caregivers. The Vaccination Task Force, the Higher Council of Health, the Risk Assessment Group and the Bioethics Advisory Committee have positioned themselves very clearly by saying "stop" to this bill. In spite of this, you are obstinate. However, if these bodies have expressed their opposition to this bill, it is because it is disproportionate, because it is not appropriate to be in view of epidemiological developments, because the penalty for dismissal is excessive and because there is discrimination. This bill is all the more challenging given the shortage of caregivers. I have pointed out, on the occasion of topical issues, that up to 20% of hospital beds are closed due to a lack of nurses, which puts at risk a number of care that needs to be postponed. You are obstinate on the pretext that you must prepare by referring to a royal decree which, in reality, is a trompe-l'oeil since it is a matter of giving the government the power to decide everything when it wants to do so when it is totally unjustified. Moreover, your attitude is not legal, in terms of respect for the main principles, as Marc Verdussen pointed out. We want to submit amendments to the Council of State to seek its opinion. What are the amendments? The first is to call for the abolition of the disproportionate penalty for the dismissal of caregivers. It is also a question of asking for an alternative approach along the lines of that advocated by Marius Gilbert to provide for a personalized interview with unvaccinated caregivers and a personalized approach. An amendment is intended to take into account caregivers who have been affected by the covid and who are immune. Finally, an amendment is intended to propose an alternative position rather than the redundancies procedure which is being put in place. This is an opportunity to test the Council of State on the issue of discrimination. Indeed, if with this bill, employees and self-employed persons will be dismissed, this will not be the case for statutory employees. This demonstrates once again that your approach is not at all acceptable. For all these reasons, Madam President, we are asking for these amendments to be sent to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u71	Madam President, as you know, my party is not in favour of this procedure for referral to the Council of State. We have had the opportunity to say this about another emblematic dossier of our work. But for this reason, to send amendments to the Council of State seems to us to be the last possible step in our power today to bring reason back into this debate. Indeed, what you are proposing to us, which is on Parliament's table, is totally disproportionate to the objective pursued. That is why, like some of our colleagues, we have tabled amendments aimed at moving towards a more proportionate sanction and obliging the government to make the entry into force of this measure coincide with the opinions of the experts who would go in this direction, which is still not reflected in the scheme, but also to clarify the cases of contraindications in order precisely to ensure that the measure is proportionate. That is why we are allowing ourselves to use the prerogative given to us by the coordinated laws on the Council of State and also the Rules of the House to send these amendments to the Council of State. This is essential because the last time the Council of State voted on this text was on 24 December last year on the preliminary draft. That was five months ago. What happened within five months? There have been very lengthy hearings on the general vaccination obligation and lessons had to be learned with regard to a potentially targeted obligation for caregivers, which has not been done. The text was adopted in the Council of Ministers in order, allegedly, to respond to the complaints of the Council of State. The text was also amended in committee on the basis of amendments tabled by the majority. And then, not least as a change, the epidemiological situation is now quite different from the one that was under way last December. Moreover, as has been pointed out, we do not even have a barometer. No more health measures dictate our daily lives. That is why we believe that this opinion of the Council of State is more than essential today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u72	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u73	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by:
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u74	- 1524: Wouter De Vriendt, Samuel Cogolati, Goedele Liekens, Els Van Hoof. Annick Ponthier, Ellen Samyn.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u75	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1524/4) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1524/4) The title has been changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution to condemn human rights violations in Hong Kong". The title was changed by the committee to "Proposal for a resolution condemning human rights violations in Hong Kong." The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u76	I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u77	Madam President, what is before us here is a resolution condemning human rights violations in Hong Kong and calling on the government to support additional sanctions against China at European level in respect of human rights violations. They've been trying to change our minds. By "men," I mean the ambassador of China in our country. We know that, it's been in the press too. A letter was sent to the committee on 27 September last year, with the intention of putting some pressure on the Chamber not to let it express itself on human rights violations. The ambassador didn't, and he won't. Today we will normally adopt this resolution, perhaps by a fairly large majority, as was the case in committee. So the Chinese ambassador failed to put pressure on the Chamber, except for one group. Madam President, I do not want to repeat the substantive debate here, but I would like to give the general public an insight into the voting behaviour of the PVDA/PTB group for the various elements, elements and questions contained in the resolution. I'd like to give you an anthology, because I think this is important. The resolution refers to the special status for Hong Kong within China. Hong Kong is not part of China. The PVDA defended in committee the statement that Hong Kong has been part of China for 2,000 years and that it is strange to adopt a resolution condemning Chinese interference in Hong Kong's internal affairs. There was no desire to approve the findings of, among other things, the 1984 Chinese-British joint declaration anchoring the philosophy of one country, two systems. What we did not want to approve is the passage that points to the problematic nature of the Hong Kong national security law imposed by China. That is an element of repression. That law states, among other things, that trials should be introduced behind closed doors, without a jury. The National Security Act also abolishes the independence of Hong Kong judges. There was a abstention from the PVDA with regard to that adoption in the resolution. The finding that the crime most people commit in Hong Kong, according to China then, is showing messages that are not in line with China's official message, could also count on abstinence from the PVDA. Also for the consideration of the need for measures to defend the rule of law, democracy and human rights, the PVDA abstained. The conclusion is therefore simple, and the PVDA does not believe that human rights in Hong Kong should be protected. The consideration that the number of persecutions and human rights violations in Hong Kong is increasing was not supported by the PVDA. The request to insist on the immediate end of human rights violations in Hong Kong and on respect for freedom of the press, freedom of expression, association and assembly and the right of citizens to demonstrate freely and peacefully led to a abstention of the PVDA. The PVDA didn't want to approve this passage. A request to the government to support new sanctions against China within the European Union would not be approved by the PVDA. Our request to consider how to strengthen Europe's strategic autonomy towards China, something that everyone agrees on, in order to protect us from Chinese pressure, led to the PVDA's abstention. The question of examining the harmful interference from China in the functioning of Belgian democracy and freedoms also led to a abstention of the PVDA. However, we know from the good work of our intelligence services that this pressure or interference in our country has sometimes been there. The request to the federal government to urge the UN to hold a debate within the Human Rights Council on human rights violations in Hong Kong led to a abstention of the PVDA. Colleagues, I think that in total (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u78	Mr De Vriendt, we have been flexible because you are the first author of the project, but let us try to keep to the time allotted! It's a collective decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the present motion for a resolution and its related proposal, namely that of the Flemish Interest Group, which was initially placed on the agenda, has come a long way. The first discussion was held on 1 June 2021. That was almost day by day a year ago. After the Flemish Interest Group placed the proposal concerning the continued repression in and of Hong Kong by the People's Republic of China on the agenda, there was, of course, at that time, at least a strong condemnation of that repression, which means nothing more or less than the denial of the democratic rights of citizens on the ground. On several occasions, the Vlaams Belangroep referred to the situation on the spot. The violent crackdown on pro-democratic protests, the final introduction of the National Security Act by the Chinese Communist Party in Hong Kong, the reform of the education system and the reform of the electoral system are not all measures to the benefit of the Chinese regime and the Chinese Communist Party. We have worked and worked not only for the citizens on the ground who must undergo repression and reform, but certainly for many Western and Flemish businessmen who have been able to do so in a relatively safe environment until recently. We therefore considered it necessary to put our resolution on the agenda. After all, we were not allowed to delay. The meeting started a year ago. Ecolo and Green have linked their proposal to that and from then on it seemed to be waiting for Godot. Written opinions were requested, amendments were announced and announced again and again. In the end, the proposal was no longer on the agenda. If the Flemish Interest Group had not continued to hammer it, it would probably not have been present today. Why things were put on the long track was soon clear to us. In fact, the original proposal of Ecolo-Green rightly and to our satisfaction, mentioned the suspension of the extradition treaty between the Belgian State and China. As we predicted a year ago, that original proposal was twisted by the purple-green mangel. What's left is limp coffee. Instead of pointing the finger firmly and firmly at the Chinese regime, we are now talking about dialogue. For the liberals, the business interests of large multinationals in China prevail, as is shown by Prime Minister De Croo's Beijing policy. For example, this Parliament supports the oppressed citizens of Hong Kong with lip service, for fear of burning the bridges with the Chinese regime. Unfortunately, this attitude is very characteristic of the Belgian foreign attitude. The most striking thing is that we no longer want to suspend the bilateral extradition treaty. Ecolo-Groen wanted that until a few months later. That bilateral extradition treaty was also proudly ratified by this government, of which the green parties are part. So the purple-green majority doesn't want to go as far as the initial proposal to avoid losing face at the moment. We cannot agree to that at all. We see that this extradition treaty represents the risk of effectively extraditing dissidents who want to see China extradited. We have made a number of proposals. We have also retabled the amendment to include that extradition treaty in the proposal. As I said, the initial proposal was much more critical of the repression in Hong Kong. As a result of these majority amendments, the majority has removed from the original almost everything relating to a strong condemnation, sanctions or revisions of relations with Beijing. As far as we are concerned, we are risking accessory to persecution of all kinds of groups in our country, so as not to put Xi Jinping's dictatorship before our heads. That's embarrassing. For all the reasons mentioned, unless our amendment is adopted shortly, we will abstain from voting on the resolution before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as a symbol, the National Security Act was enacted on June 30, 2020 – the day before the anniversary of the surrender in 1997. The purpose of this law was to punish "separatism, terrorism, subversion and collusion with foreign forces" – penalties that could extend to life imprisonment, under the pretext of the need to consolidate national security. We know that this text was adopted by the Chinese Parliament, thus bypassing the Hong Kong executive, the prerogatives of that territory and the semi-autonomy it has had for more than twenty years. It is this political context that is courageously denounced by Hong Kong residents. Let us be clear: for Taiwan and for Taiwan tomorrow, the principle set out by Deng Xiaoping in 1997 of "one country, two systems" belongs to the past. Hong Kong's semi-autonomy is thus reduced by half, which in the end lasted only twenty-three years – instead of the fifty that the act of surrender provided for. By this gesture, Beijing wanted to stir up the pro-democratic movement in Hong Kong, in order to prevent its spread in the People's Republic of China. Similarly, Beijing wanted to prevent any dialogue by giving itself the means to respond violently to a democratic movement that could radicalize itself. Since then, ladies and gentlemen, the balance of power has evolved, both economically and militarily. China can impose its domination on Hong Kong, while the Americans, Europeans and Taiwan can support the Democrats and protest, but they can no longer bend China. No one can predict what the latter would have been in 2047, the final date of the surrender, or in 2049, the centenary of the People's Republic of China, had it undertaken a political opening slipping on the wave of its formidable economic development. China has formed a choice that we are challenging: to safeguard social peace by maintaining its growth, while disregarding any internal political development and relying on revancist nationalism. Given this very worrying situation, a respectable Hong Kong democracy and an island of Taiwan that Beijing wants to recover at all costs, we must continue the dialogue with China, stress the importance of respect for international law, the rule of law, democratic values and fundamental freedoms. We need to send a message of encouragement to Hong Kong's pro-democratic leaders, to make them understand that we know their ideals, their struggles and their suffering, given the repression that threatens them and attacks them, and ultimately to use all the instruments in our possession within the European Union and in coordination with Washington to send a clear message to Beijing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution represents a clear position with our country vis-à-vis China. We must continue to advocate the one-country-two-system principle and a high degree of autonomy for Hong Kong. At that time it was agreed that Hong Kongers could enjoy their acquired freedoms for 50 years. There is clearly a difference between what the Beijing regime is saying and what it is doing now. The security law that China introduced two years ago drastically restricted the fundamental freedoms of Hong Kongers. Traditionally, the massacre on Tiananmen Square on 4 June is commemorated in Hong Kong. The commemoration would normally take place next week, but it seems that the Security Act will make this impossible again. It is therefore important for our Parliament to show the Hong Kongese that we do not forget them. I think this is sending a very clear signal. Letters from the embassy have also shown that the Chinese regime does not appreciate this resolution. The CD&V Group has tabled amendments aimed at reducing our strategic dependence on China. We call on the government to do this, not only through a law of care, but also through long-established screening mechanisms for foreign investment so that China's influence in Belgium is limited. We think this is a good resolution. We can work with China where possible, but we must also dare to give counterweight where necessary under the motto: corporate when you can, push back when you must. That is what the European Union has also said very clearly, and that is what we are doing with this resolution today. Our group will support this wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Hong Kong regarding respect for human rights is worrying. Our party condemns any violation of fundamental freedoms, human rights and fundamental democratic rights, worldwide and therefore also in Hong Kong. We are also concerned about the national security law and the possible undermining of the rule of law. We strongly condemn them. However, we also have a responsibility to find diplomatic solutions to reduce tensions in the region. That is why we also support all the initiatives in this resolution. Unfortunately, there are only a few of them that are heading in the right direction. You cannot blame us, of course, for being coherent and consistent with the fact that we have a problem with calling for unilateral sanctions against the People's Republic of China. We do not support that question. We are not going to go along with this story of sanctions, which will inevitably affect the civilian population. There will be a spiral of sanctions, a response to these sanctions and so on. That would also go against the need for de-escalation. This text fits into a climate in which China is regarded as a systemic and geopolitical rival by a number of Western countries, with the United States in the lead. The increasing tensions between the US and China give this resolution an additional geopolitical dimension. The PVDA refuses to step into the dynamics of a new cold war, which is now dormant and now and then manifests itself. We are opposed to this dangerous polarisation policy, in which the US wants Europe. When I read the call for sanctions, I see above all two measures and two weights. Where are the texts, resolutions, interplays and questions relating to sanctions against Saudi Arabia, for example, which is responsible for the death of 400,000 Yemenis due to the shameful blockade of the port of Hodeida and the bombings and the violation of Yemen's sovereignty? Where are the sanctions against Israel? That country has occupied Palestinian land for decades, colonizes the population and organises apartheid there. Where are the sanctions, ladies and gentlemen? Where is the strong reaction of the international community? By the way, we're even seeing the opposite. Western governments maintain their relations with those responsible for an apartheid state such as Israel. So if we are talking about human rights and respect for democracy, where was the same outrage in 1997, when Hong Kong was still part of the British Empire, after 150 years? There were a lot of demonstrations and strikes violently knocked down. There was a lot of repression. At that time, I did not see any indignation or resolution indicting it. One cannot deny that one is rather selective in calling for sanctions or not. Then it is difficult not to see this as a matter of geopolitical or geostrategic importance. We are not going along with that. We've said that several times. We do not accept that international law and human rights should be implemented for strategic purposes. We do not accept the imposition of sanctions on our self-declared opponents while overlooking the crimes of our allies. In the current context of rising tensions in the world, with the war in Ukraine and the consequences of this war worldwide, and the context of the political bloc against block................................................................................................................................................................... In this respect, we will abstain from the resolution before us today. Mr De Vriendt, I am sorry, but it is very revealing that you have used most of your speaking time not so much to talk about the content of the resolution but to see it as a purely political instrument, as a political stick to strike at the Labour Party. It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u83	Mr De Vuyst, I am not simply trying to repeat what has already been said in committee meetings in plenary. We may disagree on this, but I think that is a rather important starting point. That is why I do not want to repeat the substantive debate here. However, I think it is important for the public to know what statements you always make on foreign policy. Your speech today was actually a cramped search for excuses to explain why you never managed to condemn Chinese human rights violations clearly and clearly. You do not speak about Hong Kong or the genocide against the Uighurs in China. You cannot even vote clearly for a resolution condemning the Russian invasion of Ukraine. You have a big problem when it comes to foreign policy. You're unreliable, and frankly, I'm afraid when I listen to your statements. In your cramped search for excuses, you use coherence as an argument.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u84	[[...]] [[excluding microphones]] [[)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u85	Will you allow me to speak, or are you afraid of what I say? The latter is, of course, possible. Since you do not like what I say, you are now asking the President to take the floor. Such practices happen in China, but not here in the Chamber. The Chamber has already adopted resolutions on Israel, condemning violations of international law in Israel. Our Secretary of State says the same thing every time. Mr Boukili, we do not have two sizes and two weights. Human rights violations and violations of international law must always be condemned. Your party does have two sizes and two weights, because you are often on trial for violations of human rights in Israel and the United States. However, we are in the same position when it comes to violations of human rights by Russia and China, but you are not getting that over your head. That is the big difference between our groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u86	Only one member has the floor for the PTB-PVDA, namely Mr De Vuyst and not Mr Boukili.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u87	Mr De Vriendt, you confirm here that you prefer to engage in a totally unfair intellectual framing of our voting behaviour and of our party. I find this regrettable, because I have explained it several times and made our position clear. You're talking about two sizes and two weights. We do indeed condemn human rights violations and violations of democratic rights throughout the world. We've always condemned them. But what are the real double standards and two weights, Mr De Vriendt? Those are the deeds. Where do the sanctions fall and where do they not fall? That's just the point we want to make. If you want to replace international law with the law of the stronger states, which give out arbitrary sanctions, while keeping the rest of the world and the Western allies above our heads, we will replace international law with the law of the strongest. We stick to international law. If this international law is violated, as in Palestine, and numerous UN resolutions are made, then you condemn it, but the sanctions are still out. So you are dealing with two sizes and two weights. You condemn a great deal, but the sanctions are only applied to the systemic and geopolitical rivals of the West and never to the allies. That's what I was gonna charge.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, I have lost a little because the debate has been somewhat devious. I thank Mr Dallemagne for his patience and I invite Mr Boukili to remain silent because I can only hear him!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u89	Madam President, I would like to congratulate Mr. De Vriendt in two tracks, and M. Cogolati in spite of his absence. Firstly, he tabled a bold motion for a resolution. I couldn't have written it better. It's a committed resolution. Secondly, I would like to congratulate you for rightly pointing out the fascination of the PTB with Chinese totalitarianism. It is a long-standing fascination, whose origins we know. They're always used to calling the whole world to drown the fish. Trump had his axis of evil; they have theirs, with the United States, Europe and Israel. I would not say that these countries are without problems, we talk about them regularly. But as long as we hit these three entities, we're in the right place for the PTB. We have seen it about Ukraine, and we see it today. Here we are talking about a terrible, tragic situation, a violation of international law in Hong Kong. But they cannot help but condemn this situation. They go so far as to abstain from the fact that China can continue to interfere in Belgium's internal affairs, to do cyber surveillance, that does not bother them at all. We're used to it. I still have a flat, Mr. De Vriendt.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u90	Mr Boukili, Mr Dallemagne has the floor!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u91	Madam Chair, since the PTB continues to interfere in this exchange, I would add that the true nature of the PTB is recognized in its foreign policy. Those who want to know what the true nature of the PTB is on human rights issues, on rule of law issues, need to see what its foreign policy is and which countries are systematically under consideration. We will recognize China and Russia. I think that would be a very interesting analysis and one that would make it possible to know the true nature of the PTB. I still have a flat, Mr. De Vriendt, I said. It's because you must have put a lot of water in your wine compared to your original intention. I don't know what the Vivaldi's partner forced you to do. I still have my little idea about it. I regret that, indeed, the original scope of the resolution is now quite degraded. I note, for example, that the Chinese authorities are no longer being condemned, and that they are being called upon to address human rights. You can imagine Xi Jinping being invited by the Belgian Parliament. I don't know how much interest and listening to it will be. The Chinese ambassador is no longer being summoned. His grave concern over torture, secret detention, extortion of confessions is no longer expressed. The case is no longer being considered for referral to the International Criminal Court. There is no further discussion in the Security Council. There are no longer any sanctions against the leaders. The extradition treaty is no longer suspended when human rights NGOs and, I would point out, NGOs themselves are calling for the extradition treaty to be suspended because the protection clauses contained in this treaty do not convince anyone. I am not saying that there is nothing left in this resolution and we are going to vote in favour of it. I think it keeps a fairly firm tone, especially in most of its recitals and even in its device, but it is true that the tone is now largely sweetened. I'm sorry. I think that with regard to a regime like this one, we need to speak clearly. We need to express our ideas clearly. They don't hesitate to intimidate us. Mrs. Van Hoof called him back. I and others have been intimidated. I think that in my whole life as a parliamentarian, it is the country that has been the most authorized to intimidate the Belgian Parliament, and for that alone, we should not water down such a text. We should take our own view of China's danger to Hong Kong, to the Uighurs, to its own people and also to our own people and interests. This is a pity, but the exercise remains relatively convincing. We will adopt this text later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u92	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u93	• 43 years Annick Ponthier cs (1524/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u94	The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendment retained and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u95	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by:
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u96	Guillaume Defosse, Eva Platteau, Wouter De Vriendt, Simon Moutquin, Séverine de Laveleye, Julie Song, Samuel Cogolati.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u97	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2265/4) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2265/4) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The reporter, Ms Ponthier, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen in the Committee on External Relations know that this committee has a tendency to turn into a resolution factory. Week after week, we improve the world in that committee. I have noted that at this rate we are threatening to have nothing more to improve in the world. You will say: this sounds very cynical. Well, when it comes to matters that do deserve to be able to raise a voice with this Parliament, and that happens regularly, that is a legitimate formula. However, the weight and sharpness of resolutions decreases with the quantity. They're special knives. Normally a good knife becomes sharper, if one uses it a lot. This is where it threatens to bone off. It is in danger of tripping over the toes of the previous resolutions. That is the case with what is going on here today. The theme is clear. The problem is serious. There can be no misunderstanding about that. For this reason, I believe that we have already adopted a resolution on this subject in plenary in December last year. N-VA has approved it and still supports it. Of course, because there is no reason to believe that the situation in Afghanistan would have improved in humanitarian and security terms. But let's face it, it is 25 May today, and December is relatively recent. Then why is there a more or less similar text on the table today? That is because there is a certain mechanism. Green and Ecolo present a text in which the most robust wordings are always sought. Sometimes they convince the PVDA, sometimes they do not succeed, depending on the continent on which the text is dealing, but we have already talked about that. Then there will be a mechanism, which has just played a bit, whereby the majority, I mean: the parties represented in the government, after internal consultation, cut the text. It is for entertainment reasons that I regret that I cannot be present, but for reasons of good time I do not regret it at all, because in the meantime I am doing more pleasant and useful things. We see what comes out of it. Undoubtedly, after hours of discussions, the green concerns are systematically cut and the Ecolo colour in the resolution until, at the end of the story, presumably by the continued intervention of the more realistic members of the vivaldimate majority, is ended at the point where we were in December 2021. Grosso Modo is a repetition of what we have already adopted here. You will probably tell your constituents that on 25 May 2022 you denounced the situation in Afghanistan and took huge steps forward in this respect. Whoever believes that will pay tribute to you for it. In this way, however, you run the formula of the resolution or to put it in plain Flemish terms: this is overdone. That is to do work again, so that the question can be asked as to what was wrong with that December 2021 resolution that we adopted and which you also approved. What did we not approve then? What was wrong? In the meantime, what happened that we did not know at the time and that we now have to re-table at all prices? Ladies and gentlemen, that is why we will vote against the resolution. We refer to the resolution that we adopted with a very broad majority in the Chamber and which we still fully support. We urge you to ensure that the instrument of the resolution keeps its full focus by using it with appropriate restraint.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not surprised at Mr. From Roover who despises and denigrates the work we have done. That's too bad. The text we have here is broader than the resolution we voted in 2021. It addresses more than the issue of Afghan women and minorities. Mr. De Roover has a lot to do and he probably doesn't have time to read everything. In a few weeks it will be a year since Kabul fell into the hands of the Taliban after twenty years of western occupation. Two images remain deeply rooted in our mind. The first is to see the whole country collapse in a few weeks or even a few days, with an Afghan army, which we have formed for two decades, which goes almost without fighting. The second is to see the thousands of people who were desperately trying to flee the country by sometimes clinging to the wings of planes that took off from Kabul. Thanks to the competence of our diplomatic and military personnel, we were able to bring a few hundred people back to Europe via Operation Red Kite. I thank that staff. Nevertheless, this sequence will remain an indelible task for the United States and allies, including Belgium. It was a cruel slap, not to say a humiliation. Today, we must make sure that we have learned the lessons from our mistakes. I am thinking in particular of the disastrous strategy of focusing everything on security and military policy at the expense of a political, economic and social response to be given to the country. This strategy cost the lives of 71,000 civilians and nearly 69,000 Afghan soldiers, some 6,500 Americans – military and mercenaries – and nearly 1,150 soldiers from other NATO countries, not to mention the 20,000 wounded. All this to return today to the same point as 20 years ago. This requires not only a strategic and tactical assessment but also a political assessment of our presence in Afghanistan. We also need an analysis of the totally unbalanced balance of forces in NATO. It seems to us, for example, that the decision to withdraw was never really agreed between the Americans and their allies. For several months, we had the movement. They said they were leaving, we said so too; they said they were staying, we were staying; they went out in disaster, we ran with them. The evaluation must therefore be quite broad and must also focus on the objectives we wanted to achieve. Part of this work seems to have been done by the government. This resolution therefore calls for a discussion in Parliament on the results of this process of lessons learned, so that the government can come to explain and detail how these elements will be integrated into the operational planning for the next few years, if there are to be other such missions – which I do not want. Secondly, we must take responsibility for what is happening in Afghanistan today. Unsurprisingly, the situation of women and minorities is catastrophic. We are witnessing a major decline in their rights and freedoms. Today, Afghan women have a ban on flying without a male relative, and colleges and high schools have again been closed to them. Their rights to engage in economic activity had been limited and burqa had once again been imposed on all women in the public sphere. LGBTQIA+ people risk being sentenced to death at any time, simply for what they are. I would like to stress here the admiration I feel for these women who are rising up and trying to resist the yoke of the Taliban. I am thinking in particular of those journalists who, this week, have prevented them from appearing on television without burqa. Unfortunately, they did not last long in the face of the enormous pressure, but they show once again that a flame is burning and still living among Afghan women. They do not intend to let themselves be done and heroines will continue to fight for the law. We have a responsibility to support them, in particular through coordinated diplomatic pressure at European level, which we detail in this resolution. The text also stresses that we must stand in solidarity with the 600,000 Afghan refugees in 2021 alone, guaranteeing them a welcome and protection worthy of the name. We are detailing a series of initiatives in this direction. As a reminder, an economic and humanitarian crisis strikes the country very painfully: 95 per cent of Afghans do not eat to their hunger and more than half of the Afghan population is threatened by famine. We can't let it go. I therefore ask you to support this text and thank you in advance for the vote I hope to be positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to our group that the operation in Afghanistan has failed. It was one of the biggest historical mistakes made by the United States to support the Muslim terrorists of the Mujahedien during the Afghan war. When the US realized after 9/11 that it had created a new enemy to defeat the old enemy of communism, it invaded Afghanistan in 2001 to fight the Taliban. We are 21 years on from bloody warfare and the sad balance in Afghanistan is more than 2,500 soldiers killed, tens of thousands wounded and a cost of thousands of billions of dollars, resulting in the whole country once again being under Taliban control. Islam fundamentalists are stronger than ever, and that is what makes them feel humanitarian. Women's rights are renewed, sexual minorities are suppressed and Sharia, corporal punishment and executions are imposed. Reports by human rights organisations in this area are downright staggering. As I said in committee, our group will not sign this resolution. Each argument in the text still exudes a desire to transform the hardened Islamic Afghan culture into a western one. The authors of this proposal suffer from a progressive projection, as if we could re-educate those Afghan men, who are also massively supporting the Taliban, in order to respect women's rights. It has been tried for 18 years, and it clearly doesn't work. The Afghans will have to reform their own culture at their own pace. We have to be honest about that. Our military intervention only led to more anti-Western aversion from the local population and thus certainly made Islamism stronger. International financial aid through UN organisations will not bring about any harm either. Moreover, Afghanistan has been receiving humanitarian aid for many years, but the Afghan Government is unable to provide adequate basic services such as clean drinking water, electricity, safe roads and education. So we are firmly in favour of funding the Taliban regime, because that is exactly what will happen if we continue to send humanitarian or development aid. How many times do we have to face the wall before we realize that we cannot do business with such totalitarian regimes? Every penny we invest in Afghanistan disappears into the pockets of those same terrorists who cover young girls with burqas and deny them basic rights as education. The Taliban is interested in our Western money to survive, because they need it badly now that the whole country remains torn apart between different ethnic and religious clans and their agricultural economy is in ruins. They want our money, but they're not interested in our values. I hope that is a lesson learned, to say it with the words of this resolution. On top of the fact that we're throwing our money into a bankrupt project with Afghanistan, we don't have a penny of taxpayers' money in surplus. Our own people moan under the exploding energy bill and rising commodity and food prices. It is an understatement that we have to reverse every euro twice, which means that we certainly should not give this to an Islam dictatorship like Afghanistan. If we had any guarantee that our money would end up well, we could still consider this with a lot of good will and a small portion of naivety. However, nothing is less true. There is also the issue of refugee reception. Yes, we want to show solidarity with the suffering Afghan people, but we are currently facing the greatest security and refugee crisis on European soil since the Second World War. Our asylum reception capacity is moaning under the Ukrainian migration flow towards Western Europe, precisely because for decades refugees, asylum seekers and illegal migrants from Africa, the Middle East and Asia flooded the country. We cannot help a European brother people without building emergency villages and using the living room of our own people. This is due to the open border policy of the past. It is therefore time for an explicit focus on care in our own region. The cultures of Iran and especially Pakistan, for example, are much closer to each other. So it only makes sense that Afghans would be taken care of there. In this context, we want to invest and cooperate at European and international level, but we are committed to the resettlement of Afghan refugees in Europe and to family reunification. So we are united, but in concentric circles. We have to take care of our people first and only then for the rest of the world. However, in the motion for a resolution tabled by the authors, the world seems turned upside down and that order is reversed. Our group cannot possibly support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when we voted on the resolution on Afghanistan that I was wearing at the end of last year, it was difficult to believe that, six months later, we would only have information about that country on an episodic basis, which was swept away by another conflict, that of Ukraine with abuses against women and civilians. Unfortunately, the information is all in the same direction. The Taliban who have returned to power since August 2021 have already lost much of their legitimacy – if we can talk about legitimacy. The economic situation is almost desperate. As a reminder, until 2021, 80 per cent of Afghanistan's budget was financed from external sources. These external sources cut off, there's nothing left. The humanitarian situation is marked by a lack of food. That is how more than half of the Afghan population today is starving – it is alarming. And no one can assess the crops for the current year. Moreover, how many people did not die of cold, hunger, with children as the first victims? The war against opium is revived by the Taliban. The security situation is marked by attacks and tensions with Pakistan's neighbours. The country is even more divided between Kabul and the province. Kabul has 5 million inhabitants, while Kandahar has just over 600,000 inhabitants. The country is divided between a Taliban elite and combatants who, after the victory, understand nothing but loot, while now it is necessary to manage a country and meet the legitimate needs of a population. It is divided by a government that was supposed to be inclusive, but that turns out to be monolithic. Colleagues, what remains of the Afghan State today, built and financed by the international community with billions of dollars since 2001. One still wonders about its collapse as a castle of maps, in a few hours, and without resistance while the Taliban had not yet entered Kabul. We will have to deal with this debate, back in September, without apprehension. There are also questions about the strength of the Islamic State bloodshed the country with deadly attacks. Nearly 300 people were killed in one month, in April, in Kabul. Unfortunately, he must be reminded of that. There is still a question about the strength of Pakistan, whose secret services have been able to pull political and security strings from both sides of a disputed border, but which seems to have lost its hand. Can we imagine the consequences of a double Taliban victory in Kabul and Islamabad? But there are no longer any questions about the latest bans on girls' access to school, about the obligation for all women to take up burqa again and be accompanied by a family man when they leave their homes. The fate of women and girls has returned, through successive touches, to that of their Taliban past. Colleagues, we must not, as Donbass burns, turn us away from Afghanistan, its people, those women who suffer, worn out by years of war and constraints. We must keep our eyes open, from Yemen to the two Kivus, from Afghanistan to South Sudan, where we see the same tragedy everywhere. A fanatical minority subjected a majority to suffering of all kinds. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a motion for a resolution which highlights the very necessary humanitarian aid for Afghanistan. I would just like to outline the urgency, because there is a humanitarian crisis going on there. Today, 90% of the Afghan population is dependent on humanitarian aid. This humanitarian aid, together with the IMF financing, already accounted for 75% of Afghanistan's gross national product during the twenty-year war. Following the withdrawal of NATO troops and the return of the Taliban, humanitarian aid and IMF funding were stopped abruptly and sanctions were imposed. At present, almost the entire Afghan population lives in food insecurity or worse. UNICEF reports that one in three girls in puberty suffers from anemia and that the country is suffering from one of the world's highest rates of children under the age of five who suffer from retardation, in particular about 41%. In Uruzgan province in southern Afghanistan, an epidemic of measles broke out earlier this year due to a lack of vaccines. The number of premature births in the country rises to frightening heights. There are also poignant stories about Afghan families who actually have to sell their daughters as a child bride in order to obtain some income to get food. The examples and the terrible testimonies are legion. A report published by the United Nations on 5 May shows that some 20 million people in Afghanistan, almost half of the population, are suffering from acute hunger. We therefore support a large number of the requests contained in the present motion for a resolution: the requests for humanitarian aid and coordination, the requests made by Belgium to the rights of Afghan war refugees and the requests for the protection of Afghan women and children, minorities, journalists, activists and other groups at risk. However, we have a problem with the fact that we are getting there again, as the motion for a resolution confirms and wishes to retain sanctions against Afghanistan in the previous discussion, which, in our view, is really wrong and cruel to the people of Afghanistan. We also condemn, for the sake of clarity, the fact that the Taliban regime undermines and violates the rights of minorities, women and girls by prohibiting them from entering education and denying them a full role in society. We must condemn this, and we do so, for the sake of clarity. However, we do not believe that sanctions are the solution. Sanctions always miss their goal and affect those who do not want to be affected, usually the vulnerable groups, including those women and girls. Recent history has shown that sanctions simply do not work to force governments to change policies or encourage a population to overthrow the regime. In Afghanistan, we have seen what the policy of sanctions and twenty years of military occupation has led to: the Taliban have returned and the country has sank into an immense humanitarian catastrophe. This resolution does not call for sanctions to be lifted. Moreover, the US also calls for the release of more than USD 9 billion from the Afghan central bank that has been seized. That largely undermines the intention of the proposers. As a result of these sanctions, the PVDA will once again abstain from the other worthy resolution. I hope that people do not feel called again to impose an intellectually unfair framing by saying that our position against sanctions will automatically also hold the Taliban regime over its head. I think that some Members will feel called once again to make this association. However, we are once again coherent and reject the sanctioning mechanism and policy of the West in particular. After all, they have not helped the people of Afghanistan and will not do so in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u103	Madam President, it has been almost a year since the Taliban regained power in Afghanistan. Last August, the lull in the country over the past 20 years suddenly broke, leaving room for oppression, terror and continued violation of the most fundamental rights of Afghan citizens. This is not surprising since the Taliban had used these violent methods in the past, especially between 1996 and 2001. While some have naively believed that they could change, today it is clear that history repeats itself. The Taliban make the law according to a more violent and restrictive interpretation of the Islamic Shariah than ever before. Since Kabul's recovery, things have been getting worse. Human rights are dramatically under pressure; persecutions, arbitrary detentions, acts of violence, repression and executions have become commonplace. Those who do not fall within the norms of religious diktats, such as ethnic and religious minorities, or those whose sexual orientation or gender identity differs are threatened, attacked, banned from public space, or even simply murdered. The press and the media are placed under the supervision of the religious power. Journalists and militants who disturb are hunted and punished, as are all the traitors who collaborated with the Western invader. And all the others, those who are not persecuted, are victims of ineffective policies with disastrous consequences of a government that has no notion of what the public interest is. The deplorable political and socio-economic situation leads the population to extreme poverty. In some villages, families end up doing the unthinkable to support their most essential needs, such as selling their children. Finally, there is, of course, the question of women who lose with a fulgurance that some could not have foreseen, their freedom: public, social, economic and sexual. All the advances and rights that they had been able to grapple with over the years and the level of emancipation that they had achieved have now gone into smoke. This is evidenced by their exclusion from colleges and universities, the return of the complete veil to any public place, or the imprisonment or even exclusion of women from the world of work if gender segregation cannot be respected. There are still countless violations of their freedoms and rights. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a serious time. While this resolution must be accompanied by ambitious concrete measures to put an end to the impunity that the Taliban are using with complacency today, it is nevertheless an indispensable signal. Our group welcomes the requests contained in this resolution. It goes without saying that we will support it with the greatest force of conviction. We must first support cooperation at the level of defence, to make the European Union the main ally of the oppressed peoples in our neighbourhood. It is also at European level that we must ensure both efficient cooperation for the repatriation of our nationals, foreign nationals and Afghans who are at risk of persecution, but also guarantee the conditionality of any bilateral relationship with the Taliban government to respect the five criteria defined by the European Council. Our common levers of action must play with all their forces to maintain pressure. We'll take care of it. There are also other ways to support oppressed Afghans. On the ground, this translates into financial and political support to Afghan civil society and women's and minority rights organizations or through the provision of specific humanitarian assistance to women. This support must also be able to materialize here within our borders. In this regard, we regret that some of the basic demands of the original proposal have disappeared, namely those relating to the reception of refugees in our country and the strengthening of support for Fedasil. If it is not this regret – which is nevertheless essential – we believe that this resolution contains strong and ambitious demands which, we hope, will be heard by both our government and those of our allies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u104	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u105	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open The rapporteur, Mr Anseeeuw, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u106	Madam President, I will be very brief on this provision, which is in fact an extension of a series of measures that had been taken following the co-vid. I wanted to stress one thing in relation to this provision, that it is temporary. It is indeed important for us, environmentalists, that this temporary flexibilisation of the labour market remains linked to a very specific situation because we have a vision of work where everyone must be able to find their place, have a job, but who brings something and who can live dignifiedly and contribute to social security and to the financing of the State with contributions. In this vision, workers must be able to find security, social rights and therefore contribute because they are rights that they themselves get. This measure cannot, therefore, be a foot in the door to flexibilize permanently. Mr Minister, as you said in committee, this provision remains very temporary and responds to a request from the social partners. As an environmentalist, I just wanted to highlight three elements. First, there's the fact that it's temporary. It adapts to this specific situation both in the agricultural and horticultural sector and at the same time in the covid. Secondly, when working on contributions, one must always keep in mind this balance between facilitating the labour market and properly financing social security, which is the net of all workers and all workers. Thirdly, the norm today is that it is and must remain to guarantee a status, protection of the worker and the worker, rights and a just and dignified income. Flexibility is not our vision for the long term. If this allows us to respond to a one-time and temporary demand, we support the measure. But this is not a vision that we want to develop on a longer-term and larger scale. I wanted to call him back. Therefore, this temporary measure is obviously supported by environmentalists.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u107	Minister, I have a double feeling about this dossier. In all our interplays, Vivaldi says to give the social dialogue a chance. There is nothing wrong with that in itself, but the question is, of course, which side one is going to give a chance. Let's face it, this government always works out with social consultation when it suits her. That is again the case with this bill. Seasonal work in agriculture and horticulture and in the fruit sector has been eased by this draft legislation. Let me explain. This would be done at the request of the social partners. I think that's only half a truth. What happened? The trade unions agree to accept this relaxation once more, just once more, in exchange for a wage increase for seasonal workers. After all, these people work effectively for mini-wages. For seasonal workers, our official minimum wages are the absolute maximum wages. You heard me right. That's the way it's been with the seasonal workers for a while. The PVDA can't live with this. Those wages really need to go up. Today let's put the seasonal workers themselves at the centre. What is it like to work here as a seasonal worker or worker? I'll tell you. These people come from a long way, from Eastern Europe or even the Middle East. They do very hard work. I myself come from Limburg and the fruit sector is thriving there. We've been watching more than once. Those people have to get down and carry a lot. They usually work with day contracts, six days a week. That includes decent wages and full social rights, and that is what I am missing here. Of course, the agricultural sector, the horticultural sector and the fruit sector are struggling. Of course, many farmers are having a hard time. We need support for this sector, I am sure. However, this does not mean that we can allow this government to make pure crisis measures permanent. On the one hand, blocking wages, including the lowest ones, and on the other hand, making them more flexible and flexible, is a dynamic that the PVDA will absolutely not support. We are showing this today with a abstention instead of a yes vote. We will work with the trade unions to ensure that this does not become a surreptitious generalised favor. Let us be honest, this is a good way of making it the general rule in the long term. The general rule remains for the PVDA that we need stable, well-paid jobs and more income for social security, not less. How many discussions have we had about this? You'd be doing this drastically. I'm still waiting. Many of the 66,000 seasonal workers come from abroad. Did you know that our government of many of them doesn't even have a home address and not even an account number? In concrete terms, this means that EUR 2.5 million of social benefits will not reach these people today. Do something about that, and you will be working effectively on something good.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u108	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u109	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2647/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2647/1) The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u110	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u111	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by:
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u112	Jasper Pillen, Hugues Bayet, Kattrin Jadin, Guillaume Defossé, Hendrik Bogaert, Kris Verduyckt, Wouter De Vriendt, Tania De Jonge.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u113	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2131/5) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2131/5) L'intitulé en néerlandais a été modifié par la commission and 'proposal for a resolution on the development of adequate psychosocial support for military personnel at the end of their mission and the role of the adaptation axis in that guidance'. The title in Dutch was changed by the Committee to "proposal of resolution on the development of adequate psychosocial support for military personnel at the end of their mission and the role of the adaptation axis in that guidance." The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur, Ms Maria Vindevoghel, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u114	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this motion for a resolution deals with a very important issue, namely everything that has to do with adequate psychosocial support for our military. Last year, we had a very painful affair that seized the country for several weeks. It's not about corona. It's about the Jürgen Conings case. At some point, a soldier left the barracks with a lot of weapons, but also with a lot of miceses in his head. He also had a certain opinion about society that is very controversial. Eventually the man was found dead in a forest in Limburg, after a manhunt that lasted for weeks. It turned out to be a suicide. There followed a lot of research. The minister was under attack. Then there was the resignation of the General of Military Intelligence, the ADIV. There a new general was appointed, an admiral, if I'm not mistaken. He's been calling the shots right now. In response to all these incidents, we had a debate on the psychosocial well-being of our military in the Committee on Defence. We talked about it, not because this has to be an excuse for what happened. After all, it is no excuse to have extreme right-wing thoughts, to go through life racistly. I'm not saying that, let me be clear. This isn't about looking for excuses. It is about what one does with soldiers who have been on mission and have sometimes been under very heavy pressure. They've been away for months and they've been through a lot. There are different kinds of stress, but the stress of being in a foreign theatre, where no one is known, where one does not know the customs and where one has to deal with a very great hostility, few people here in the room can imagine. Few can imagine what that means and can contain as well as what effect that can have on the psyche of some of our boys and girls abroad. Not every theatre is of course of the same level or of the same order. However, there are certainly theatres where it is quite dangerous and without discussion. It is in itself the credit of Mr Pillen that he has taken the lead and has worked on a resolution in which there is more attention to the psychosocial support of our military. I've been a member of the National Defense Commission since 2010. I know that there have been a lot of discussions about what to do with such an adaptation axis. It is very specific about military personnel who have to acclimatise for a few weeks or a few days after an operation abroad. They should just be getting back into a family context, getting back into the old barracks, going back into normal life, getting up in the morning, so to speak, lubricating the children's sandwiches and taking them to school. That shock is sometimes great compared to what the military months have done in such a foreign theatre and compared to the stress and pressure he or she has been exposed to. The history of that adaptation ash goes back a long way. Mr De Crem was never in favour of it when he was Minister of Defence. I'm not saying he thought that was ridiculous, but he wasn't in favour of it. He didn't think that sas was necessary. He wondered what those soldiers would do in the Canary Islands for two weeks after they had returned from Afghanistan, for example. He wondered whether this was necessary and would not lead to certain outbursts or certain scenes that we do not want to see and which would put the image of the Belgian Defence Department in a bad light. Nevertheless, a number of psychologists, such as Erik de Soir, have noted that more work needs to be done on this. There's got to be more attention to it. There must be an opportunity for such a sas. Colleagues, one of the great merits of this resolution is that attention is now being paid to (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u115	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject we are discussing now is obviously essential, as it relates to the well-being of our military and Defence civilians in the course of their ongoing operations. This question must, of course, transcend any political cleavage. And that is the case, even today, with Mr Franken! I am therefore very pleased that this text, which I have co-signed, has been adopted unanimously. Thank you to Mr Pillen for proposing it. "People are Priority" is the name of the plan developed by the Minister of Defence, in favour of her staff – which has been too far removed from the priorities – but it is also the line defined by the Socialists for years within the National Defence Commission. Thus, already in 2019, our group had carried and had adopted by our assembly a similar proposal that asked the government to produce a comprehensive evaluation of the existing psychosocial monitoring arrangements for our deployed members. On the basis of this assessment, it was then proposed to review these mechanisms, where appropriate, in order to ensure better psychosocial support before and during operations. The quality of the Belgian Defence's work is no longer to be demonstrated. Moreover, it is frequently welcomed by our various partners, be they European or international. That said, you know that women and men – whether civilian or military – are deployed throughout the world in multilateral operations and theatres that are sometimes very different, both in terms of the nature of the mission and its level of danger and complexity, human, material or environmental. Of course, the psychosocial burden of these operations – before, during or after their completion – must never be minimized. Unfortunately, after several months of intensive deployment, the return to ordinary life can often prove brutal for these women and men who make up our armed forces. Fortunately, following the adoption of the 2019 resolution, several initiatives have been taken. The priority placed by the current Minister on the women and men who make up our Defence is fully integrated into this dynamic. I am also thinking of the important place reserved for the medical component, when – remember – it had been threatened under the previous legislature. This component and its internal expertise obviously play a key role in this area, as this motion for a resolution points out. It rightly allows us to put in the foreground this appropriate support which is necessary, as well as the women and men who make it possible before, during and after an operation. I believe that we have done a useful job for all our military. Thank you for your attention, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u116	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is almost a year since I tabled a motion of recommendation to the government on behalf of my group in the aftermath of the Jürgen Conings case. I asked the government to launch an investigation to evaluate existing psychosocial assistance and services in the Defense Department, to correct the major shortcomings in the psychological follow-up of military personnel, to invest more in all military components of our armed forces, to re-evaluate the medical component and to report back to the special committee responsible for the follow-up of foreign missions. That motion was voted down unjustly at the time. Party political games in this house seem to be of greater importance than the attention paid to the psychosocial guidance of our military. I still find that very regrettable and very striking. Our group is, of course, extremely concerned about the psychosocial assistance of military personnel who have left on a foreign mission and who suffer from that mission during or after the mission. The psychological guidance in this area appears to be inadequate. Simple questions about how someone is doing, are well-intentioned, but do not respond at all to the concerns and needs of a person who is potentially difficult to express mental or psychological problems in a defence-related environment. However, in practice it often comes down to that, so we learn various personal testimonies from military personnel. Psychological or mental problems are all too often seen in defence circles as a sign of weakness, of the attitude of a pussy or of being unable to cope with the hard world of Defense. It seems logical that these problems are not always expressed immediately in these circumstances. As the resolution states, these symptoms often come up late, namely when the military have been returning for some time. They have seen or experienced traumatic events and the transition to everyday life at home is difficult. Thus they can react very strongly to certain triggers that they may experience as life-threatening, even though they are not a problem in themselves. They are, as it were, in a permanent state of preparedness and stress due to their past experiences. The resolution before us certainly has its merits. I would like to make a small comment, just as I did in committee, on the written opinions requested from the trade unions. Attention was rightly drawn to the need for additional resources and trained care staff to achieve the objectives set out in this resolution. These resources are simply not available at this stage. It's all about the money , so again. There is still a great deal of work to be done in this area. The Flemish Interest Group hopes that, for the first time in years, we will not only be doing lip service to our military, but that we will also be taking action. There is no doubt that we will adopt this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u117	Madam President, I have always been very passionate about the issues involved in operations abroad. It is also a subject that we follow very regularly, particularly in the Committee on Monitoring Missions Abroad. These operations are as varied as they are dangerous and our soldiers show their professionalism, operations such as demining in Lebanon, training Congolese or Malian army soldiers, building buildings and fighting against the Islamic State with our F-16 pilots. These soldiers, these airmen, these trainers are the honour of our country. We can and must be proud of them, we, as representatives of the Nation, must pay them the tribute they deserve. Ladies and gentlemen, behind the mission, whatever its cadres (European Union, NATO, UN) and whether in Romania or in the Baltic countries at present, there are men and women on the front line. There are also all those who allow the success of these operations abroad. There are soldiers, civilians and families who know their spouse's job but have the right to worry. There are also former members of the Defence, these veterans who continue, beyond the age limit, to carry the army, our country and its flag in the heart. Special attention must be paid to all these people when returning from their operations abroad. These people are confronted with particular forms of stress which, because of the specific characteristics of their profession, require specific treatment. Mr Pillen, my esteemed colleague, indicated that studies carried out at the request of NATO revealed that 14% of soldiers exposed to serious traumatic events or stressful situations then developed psychological sequelae. One fifth of them suffer from symptoms that have not always manifested themselves directly, but sometimes only six months, one year or two years after surgery. In some cases, they even appeared much later. This resolution requires you to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of current psychosocial monitoring arrangements for our military deployed abroad. As a result of these evaluations, our Executive will need to take appropriate measures to ensure better psychosocial support before and during operations and good follow-up after operations. We listened to the unions, we fine-tuned our demands accordingly. Parliamentary follow-up will of course be necessary following the vote on this resolution. We have worked with the seriousness we are known to have in the Defence Committee and we are taking concrete steps that we want to see implemented quickly. It is up to us to follow up on all our military operations abroad. They deserve it a lot.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u118	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that today we are finally getting the final vote on our resolution, which was signed by many colleagues. I am very happy that he is on the agenda today. Being a military man isn't just a profession, it's a mission. Reference has already been made to this: this is a mission dealing with stress, with fears, with images that might not have been seen. Conflict areas such as Afghanistan or Mali stick to the ribs when people have been there and seen things. It is clear from the figures referred to by Mr Jadin and we also know that this should not be underestimated. We know the figures, they were discussed during the work in committee, we should not underestimate this. However, we have to note that the existing psychosocial framework is relatively limited, or too limited, despite the current sense of urgency and despite the resolution adopted by the Chamber in 2019 which advocates full psychosocial support. It is now time to take concrete action to improve the psychosocial framework. I am very pleased that some Members have made explicit reference to the adaptation axis, as this plays an important role in this. It must be an integral part of military operations in the future. Perhaps the name "sas" is not optimal and we should think about it in the actual development of the principle, but such an adaptation axis is a kind of lock of sport, decompression and decompression, of course within a military organization, somewhere halfway through the war front and the safe harbor. Military de-stressing there, get psychosocial support when needed, exercise there and thus engage in the transition to normal life at home. Psychologists responded positively and Defence was also in favour of this in written opinions. Even more, in the countries around us, the Netherlands, France and the United Kingdom, partner countries with which we work in the European Union and in NATO, we see that this is paying off. Our resolution text states that we should look at these best practices, that we should learn from each other, and also that opportunities for pooling and sharing infrastructure should be considered. In addition to adequate psychosocial framework, therefore, my resolution also advocates the introduction of that adaptation axis. Ladies and gentlemen, I was very pleased that we had a good debate on the basis of the clear written opinions and that this resolution was unanimously supported by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure two weeks ago. We sometimes differ on defence, which should be possible, but we all work for the common good, namely for a strong Defence. The unanimous support for this text is therefore a powerful signal. I want to thank the DOD for the clear advice. I would also like to express my thanks to the people who helped me to write the resolution text. I would also like to thank colleagues for the way in which we have handled this. In particular, I would like to thank my colleague, Mr De Jonge, who was sitting next to me, who managed to produce some personal stories, which motivated me even more to bring the text to a successful conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a little ahead of the facts, but as the author of this text, I hope, of course, that there will be unanimous support for the vote on this resolution later in this plenary. After all, where security and defence are the mission of our military, their psychosocial well-being must be our mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u119	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u120	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Ellen Samyn, Dominiek Sneppe, Hans Verreyt, Ortwin Depoortere, Frank Toventors, Wouter Vermeersch. The Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (997/2) The Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions proposes that this motion for a resolution be rejected. (997/2) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u121	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution was tabled some time ago, to be precise, on 28 November 2019. In the meantime, however, social dumping has only become worse in many sectors. This concern was shared by all members of the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions. All political groups also advocated a more stringent approach to the various excesses of the posting rule. Then, of course, we had to vote. The last time I made proposals to curb social dumping, those proposals went far too far for colleagues. They couldn't support them then for that reason. In this resolution on posting fraud, we deliberately did not go that far, we deliberately remained very good. However, the voting behaviour was similar and this resolution was rejected. Of course, there is also the idiotic game between majority and opposition. Purple-green will never support a proposal from the opposition party, even if it benefits our people, even if it wants to learn from social dumping. That's actually insane. Perhaps today's plenary session is smarter than the committee and will send the resolution back. The government's coalition agreement also contains only interesting passages: "The approach to social dumping and social fraud remains a priority for the government. Through actions and social inspection services and the work audit oriate, strict and dissuasive control is carried out in relation to social dumping and social fraud. The number of inspectors will gradually be brought into line with the standards set by the International Labour Organisation. The government is actively involved in the development of a European Labour Authority and supports the creation of a social Europol, which is responsible for monitoring the posting of workers at European level." Of course, this attention in the coalition agreement did not just happen. Very frequently we are confronted with the negative effects of social dumping in several sectors. The Posting of Workers Directive still offers a great deal of opportunities for malicious businesses. However, the effects of social dumping are considerable. The working conditions of these workers are often repulsive. The rules on safety, hygiene, health, the minimum number of holidays and the minimum rates of pay laid down in the regulations are not or are difficult to enforce. Now the foreign company providing services must also ensure that social security contributions are paid in the country of origin. In many countries these social contributions are lower than in Belgium, which in any case creates unfair competition with our workers. The control of its effective payment also remains very difficult. Other controls are also problematic due to the chain of subcontractors. The posting of foreign workers to our construction yards not only causes a significant loss of Walloon and Flemish jobs and the undermining of social security, but also unfair competition with our own companies and employees. The consequences are dramatic: thousands of jobs are lost, not only in the transport, metal, construction, horticulture, surveillance and food sectors, but also in many other sectors. In the meantime, the government is losing tax revenue and our social security is being undermined. Employers who do not participate are priced out of the market or go bankrupt. The posted workers often do not know our language, rules and safety regulations. The number of yard accidents involving foreign workers will therefore only increase. Whoever thinks that these problems can also be solved with more labour migration, I recommend that we look at this morning's Ghent University study and look at the 1.3 million inactive or the very large group of unemployed in Brussels and Wallonia. We hear a great deal of good intentions about tackling social fraud in the various policy letters and also in the committee responsible, but in practice nothing is changing. As rabbits, we look at the European light box, while we ourselves can take action in our country. As long as the issue is spread over the powers of different ministers and there is no real political will to tackle them and as long as there is no cooperation at all levels to tackle the issue thoroughly, it will of course continue to muddle, while there is certainly a need for an approach to the whole chain: residence fraud, hostage of illegal immigrants, undeclared work, trafficking in human beings, social dumping, evasion of taxes and social contributions and outright fraud. Flemish employers and employees have already dared to disagree, but there is consensus on this issue. After all, our companies have to fire their own employees and eventually go bankrupt because they are no longer competitive. The Flemish interest is on the side of the worker in the construction, transport and so many other sectors and continues to oppose social dumping through the European Posting of Workers Directive, and certainly against those who fraud with it. Mandatory companies to pay social security contributions in our country will shorten the posting period to six months and address the chain of abuse and fraud of posted workers. Vote against the rejection of our motion for a resolution!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u122	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u123	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Frank Toventors, Annick Ponthier, Erik Gilissen, Nathalie Dewulf, Pieter De Spiegeleer. The Committee on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (2511/2) The Committee on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (2511/2) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u124	Madam President, I will no longer fully explain this motion for a resolution, but it is about the opening up of Limburg, which, through the local project that the Flemish Government is developing, is more of a lockdown of Limburg. In a wider international context, all connections to the east side and to the Three-country train through the Meuse-Rhine Euregion will be missed, because there is no rail development in Limburg. I have advocated this extensively, but it is a Flemish file. It is necessary to maintain the current infrastructure, including a bridge over the Meuse. There are plans to break down that Meuse Bridge, but they're on hold. If that bridge were to be demolished, there would be no longer any chance of rail development to the Netherlands in the future and of connecting to the Maastricht railway station. I have already submitted a number of interviews on this subject, and I have already pointed this out on a number of occasions. That is why I am making a final attempt in the hope that the Limburg Members would certainly see the light of day and support this proposal and take everything possible out of the closet to keep the Meuse Bridge and thus not take away Limburg's chances in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u125	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u126	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (art. 75, n° 5, Rgt) If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. (art. 75, nr. 5, Rgt) No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u127	Since the House of Representatives acceded on 28 April 2022 at the request of the Registrar to be able to cease to hold office on 1 June 2022, having regard to the procedure for the appointment of the Clerk of the House adopted in plenary session of 28 April 2022, having regard to the call for candidates of 28 April 2022, having regard to the candidatures of Messrs. Jan Deltour and Alberik Goris, and Ms. Nicole Marquet, Whereas the three applications are admissible, having regard to the fact that the three candidates were deemed fit by the board, having regard to the fact that the three candidates were deemed competent to become Registrar by the Bureau on 24 May 2022, having regard to the decision of the Bureau of the House of Commons of 24 May 2022 to propose to the plenary session that it vote in secret on the candidate best suited for the office of clerk, secretary-general, of the House of Representatives, Whereas the Bureau decision of 24 May 2022 was brought to the attention of the candidates, having regard to the withdrawal of Mr Alberik Goris' candidacy by letter of 25 May 2022, having regard to the withdrawal of Ms. Nicole Marquet's candidacy by letter of 25 May 2022, Considering that the members of the Chamber were able to consult the complete file and that no observations were made, Since there is only one candidate for the position, we must not proceed to the vote. Whereas, on 28 April 2022, the Chamber of Representatives agreed to the Registrar's request to resign on 1 June 2022, having regard to the procedure for the appointment of the Registrar adopted by the plenary session of 28 April 2022, having regard to the call for candidates of 28 April 2022, having regard to the applications submitted by Mr Jan Deltour and Mr Alberik Goris and Mrs Nicole Marquet, Whereas the three applications are admissible, having regard to the fact that the three candidates have been found suitable by the jury, having regard to the fact that on 24 May 2022 the three candidates were found by the Office to be competent to become Registrar, having regard to the decision of the Bureau of the Chamber of 24 May 2022 to propose to the plenary that a decision be taken by secret ballot on the most suitable candidate for the office of Registrar, Secretary-General, of the Chamber of Representatives, Whereas the decision of the Office was notified to the candidates on 24 May 2022, having regard to the withdrawal of Mr Alberik Goris' candidature by letter of 25 May 2022, having regard to the withdrawal of Ms Nicole Marquet's candidacy by letter of 25 May 2022, having regard to the fact that the members of the Court have been able to examine the whole file and that no comment has been made, Since there is only one candidate left for office, we should not proceed to the vote. In accordance with Rule 157, No. 6 of the Rules of the House, I hereby declare Mr. Jan Deltour, Clerk, Secretary General, of the House of Representatives, with an entry into office on 1 June 2022. For the purposes of Article 157, No. 6, of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, I declare Mr Jan Deltour, Registrar, Secretary-General of the Chamber of Representatives, to take office on 1 June 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u128	I do not see Mr Deltour in the gallery, but I have no doubt that this is the last time he will be absent from our plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u129	Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marc Van der Hulst, Registrar of our Assembly, has requested discharge of his high office. The Bureau of the Chamber agreed, not without regret, to its request. He will therefore move away, to moderate steps, from this Palace of the Nation, which will have witnessed his brilliant journey. Dear Mr Van der Hulst, this office of clerk requires immense qualities: the ability to assimilate a large number of extremely diverse dossiers, the diplomatic meaning to the representatives of other nations and cultures as well as to those who, within our country, embody the different political tendencies, the ability to listen as superior but also as guarantor of the parliamentary tradition, to name but a few. This function, you exercised it with panache. You have put at the service of our assembly, with an extraordinary sense of duty, your enlightened opinions, your fabulous work force, your beautiful intelligence, but also your benevolence and your sense of humanity. During your long career in this House, you got to know it from inside and outside, as is also evident from the book that you have published and that has become a reference work. In 1986, you joined the Chamber as a linguist in the Translation Service of Parliamentary Documents and at the same time took up law in evening education. In 1990 you joined the Commissions as committee secretary of the Constitutional Review Committee. In 1998, the then Registrar entrusted you with a difficult task: the creation of a legal service, which did not exist at the time. As a brilliant lawyer, you became director of that service in 2001. You held that position until you were appointed Deputy Griffin and Director-General of the Legislative Services in 2012. In 2016 you became the clerk of our institution. So you have been at the helm of this ship for six years, which has endured quite a few storms, including a pandemic. In these unseen circumstances, with the introduction of distance meetings and the electronic vote, you have ensured that our assembly can continue to operate efficiently. Very active in the field of parliamentary diplomacy, you have been actively involved in the protocols for interparliamentary cooperation with Kosovo, the DRC and Burundi in particular. You have also been the House's correspondent to the European Centre for Parliamentary Research and Documentation – whose activities you have animated with great enthusiasm – and have thus gained a great deal of experience in parliamentary practices abroad. Well aware of the imperatives of the outside world, you have never stopped insisting on the continuing training of our administrative staff. You have truly paved the way for change in our institution, as evidenced by the "White Paper", recently presented to House staff, whose implementation will have many organizational implications in the future. You considered the Chamber to be an association with 150 members with equal rights. As a result, you have been able to serve each of them equally expertly and equally. You have fought for our Parliament to be more open to the outside world and our society in order to close the gap between the citizens and their representatives. I could go on for a long time about the concrete progress made by the Chamber under your wings in many areas, but I would like to dwell on your personality. Those of us who are close to you on a daily basis, and I am thinking here too of your close collaborators, know that as a great humanist, you are always open to dialogue and listening, you will draw from each one what is best, you are always oriented towards the solution rather than to the obstacle, and above all, you consider that the greatest achievements get as a team, get together. Your ordealed optimism will unquestionably be missed not only by our institution but also, and above all, by each and every one of us. Fortunately, you are not leaving us entirely because to ensure a smooth transition, you will still be present on a voluntary basis one day a week in the House and we will have the opportunity to come and greet you and benefit from your valuable advice. In the meantime, good wind, Mr Van der Hulst, and above all, I will never say enough, on behalf of the House, on behalf of all the Members, a great whole and a huge thank you!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u130	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Flahaut and Ducarme are unable to attend for good reasons. My good colleagues Loones and Francken will change their voting behaviour accordingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u131	Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u132	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Finance and Budget Committee of 18 May 2022. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Finance and Budget of 18 May 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 283/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Nahima Lanjri. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 283/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Nahima Lanjri. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u133	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the illustration is based on the case of Mouscron, Tournai and Hainaut, but it is obviously in a wider way that the decentralised offices of the FPS Finances are concerned. Here we are talking about a number of offices for which the famous Horizon 2024 plan provides for closures. Our motion is really positive. In fact, I am sure that it will make sense to a large number of colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, forget that you belong to it and think about the importance for citizens of maintaining a public service of proximity! Our motion is not about doing nothing. Of course, things can change, but this must not prevent the maintenance of a local public service in order to allow for a complete tax permanence, especially during periods of tax obligations, by setting a time limit of up to half an hour for citizens who use public transport, and by ensuring regular permanence throughout the year. Indeed, there are not only tax obligations; there is also the whole problem of tax debt collection. We stress the importance of not deciding first and then only working with the municipalities, but on the contrary, having a real collaboration to make these offices, in a way, federal houses of proximity. With regard to staff who have a lot of concerns and questions, we would like to insist that they be consulted and clarified. Madam Chair, given this positive momentum, I have no doubt that parliamentarians of the majority will support this motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u134	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u135	Yes [[60]] Yes No. 34 No Abstentions 25 Abstensions Total 119 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u136	Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u137	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, everyone knows me as a very tolerant man, but if I am not mistaken, the majority is currently present with 60 people. That's very little now, dear friends. If that really is the situation, I would ask for a suspension of the sitting. If it doesn't succeed in reaching the majority, I'm afraid it'll end here for today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u138	According to the Rules of Procedure, there is no need for a quorum in order to vote. We can continue in principle, but there is apparently a technical problem now that we cannot vote at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u139	Madam President, of course the majority should be in number. We note, however, that this is not the case at the moment. There are several reasons for that. Some colleagues are ill, for which voting arrangements might have been made with the opposition. There is also a medical examination and parental leave. We will not manage to be in numbers by the majority. We will put that right next week, and that is our duty. I therefore propose that we postpone the votes until next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u140	I hear you're happy to be free again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip182x.u141	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, June 2, 2022, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 2 June 2022 at 2.15 p.m.
