ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u1	Colleagues, it has been agreed that the Minister will give a briefing. I propose that she should do so first and then give the floor to those Members who wish to do so. That seems to me to be the best way of working. We shall first give the floor to the groups that have tabled questions, after which the other groups will have the floor. During an exchange of views, speaking time is not laid down in the Rules of Procedure, but I assume that everyone will be brief and strong in making their statement. Last week we agreed that the committee would ask the Minister that we should be able to see in advance the plan to update the Strategic Vision and the Military Programming Act. I asked the Minister to do so, but she told me she will perhaps explain herself that the document itself is not yet there. A budgetary agreement has already been made, but the document itself is still the subject of discussions within the government. That's why I haven't been able to deliver it to you, but I already let you know last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u2	Madam Secretary, you have the floor for your briefing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u3	Mr President, in line with the coalition agreement, I have worked since I arrived in October 2020 to update the Strategic Vision for Defence by 2030 and the Military Programme Act. The purpose of the update of that law is to frame the investments in the new capabilities planned in the update of the Strategic Vision, renamed STAR Plan, an acronym for Security, Technology, Ambition and Resilience. The plan defines the contours of Defence for the period 2021-2022, in particular in the areas of personnel, infrastructure, equipment, training and training. Both the strategic vision and the military programming law are solid foundations that ensure the continuity necessary for Defence. However, I do not teach you anything by telling you that our security environment has evolved since 2014. We can only think, for example, of the wave of attacks that have hit Europe since then, of the increasingly blurred border between internal and external security, of the increasingly assertive attitude of third States, of the increasing number of hybrid threats and cyber threats, of the geopolitical consequences of climate change, of the strategic reorientation of major powers, which is reflected in international relations, or of the impact of the global health crisis that we are experiencing, which will also have an impact on security and defence issues. That's why in December 2020 I mandated Professor Tanguy Struye the Swielande and Colonel Staff Veteran Eric Kalajzic to set up, lead and coordinate a strategic committee. The Committee consists of ten academics active in the broad security domain. This strategic committee provided me with an updated analysis of our security environment on 31 May, together with recommendations for capacity building on the basis of that new environment. This work and the lessons from my discussions on this subject with you here on the committee have made it possible to complete the Defence Guidelines. They were defined by the government and the staff. On 23 July, the Council of Ministers approved the ten main guiding principles on which the updating process is based. You know them and they appear in the introduction of my General Policy Note 2022. In recent months and weeks, the updates of the strategic vision and the military programming law have been the subject of intense work. At the Ministerial Council meeting on 28 February, this resulted in an agreement on the overall budgetary trajectory for the STAR plan and the updating of the Programme Act. I will come back to that in detail later. Now that the financial framework and the chalk lines have been laid down, work is currently continuing with the adaptation of the capacity tables added to the updated Programme Act. Our aim is to get that programme law adopted as soon as possible by the Council of Ministers and then, after receiving the opinion of the Council of State, to submit it to you. As long as the adjustments to the capacitary tables annexed to the update of the programming law have not been validated and will be the subject of discussions within the government, you will understand that I cannot give you, today, more details on the various capacitive lines of the STAR plan. In all cases and in general, as I have already told you on several occasions, the lines of strength of updating the strategic vision will be translated, inter alia, through the restoration of a balance between major material investments, infrastructure, personnel, training, training and operations. Indeed, we note that the strategic vision of 2016 was strongly focused on weapons equipment and systems at the expense of other components. However, we are currently observing through the operation that the lack of personnel is the most glaring and binding in the execution of Defence's missions and tasks. As you know, therefore, we are working every day, building on and consistent with my political policy statement, on the reconstruction of human capital and the well-being of defence personnel. These are essential conditions for the department to return to the current challenges. Defence is carrying out numerous projects in this context. In the context of this morning's STAR plan, I obviously have to go back to the POP and Quartier plans. Indeed, with the POP plan, presented in February 2021, I drew the line of underinvestment in staff and therefore started the catch-up movement that had waited too long. This plan aims at a situation in terms of permanent staff, both quantitatively and qualitatively. It is a combination of measures in terms of attractiveness, recruitment and retention of staff. This overall action plan for the benefit of the staff is ultimately intended to be a major step forward, the first of many, for the staff, to be put forward by the department. On my question, therefore, an important chapter of the STAR plan and of the future military programme law will be devoted to personnel policy and diversity within the department. The ambitious recruitment figure of 2,500 new military personnel per year until the end of the legislature will therefore be maintained. We are even planning to continue in this direction until 2030. The assurance of effective defence requires this effort of recruitment and, of course, of continuing training. This is an essential condition for strengthening the department and, initially, to compensate for the large number of retirements and the attrition of the staff, which has been particularly important and worrying for several years, particularly because of the lack of attractiveness of the department. Our goal is therefore to consolidate and then strengthen the staff envelope. I inherited a department with some 25,000 employees, including civilians, in 2020. At the beginning of 2021, there were about 27,600. By 2030, Defence will have more than 29,000. This gives a clear perspective on the path of growth in staff. I will not go into detail about all the measures taken to strengthen the appeal of the department. They are addressed in my policy statement or in my last general policy paper, which was submitted to each of you. Of course, they are also included in the starting plan. I would like to talk about the activation of the services for collective utility, the continuation in the third degree of secondary education of training for safety sector jobs in Flanders and the launch of that direction of education in the Walloon-Brussels Federation as of September 2022, the development of discoveries for young people, specific initiatives aimed at stimulating young people's interest in STEM professions or at strengthening the cadets Air, Marine and especially Land. As a flagship measure to ensure the department's attractiveness, I cannot fail to mention the salary revalorisation achieved last October and which takes effect this year. In addition, as part of the POP plan, I have just obtained the introduction from 1 November of this year of meal vouchers worth six euros per day of normal service for the military. This date of introduction takes into account the final steps required to obtain the opinion of the Council of State, the publication of the Royal Decree in the Belgian Moniteur and the time required for the public procurement to designate the external partner who will be responsible for its practical implementation. We also continue to follow closely the civilian personnel file, which is a skill of my colleague in charge of the civil service. However, it is clear that modern and adapted infrastructure and a better geographical distribution of military quarters also contribute to a greater attractiveness of the department. This indeed has a direct impact on well-being at work and on the best balance between work and private life. This is the essence of the quarter-minute plan. This plan differs from the current Strategic Vision and from the centralization that was used with it. With this, I want to integrate the units into the territory in a more balanced way. In this sense, we will, of course, build new infrastructure and carry out major renovations. In addition, for the first time in 30 years we will be building two new quarters. These neighbourhoods of the future will be located in areas with a low military presence, such as the provinces of East Flanders and Hainaut. They will strengthen our position in the local socio-economic structure and generate new collaborations in the area of human resources, research and development, with civilian actors based in the region. The ambition is to extend these principles of cooperation to the whole territory. You will have already understood, the POP and the fifteen-minute plans bring us coherently to the STAR plan. With this new plan, I want to continue and concreteise the work that we have already begun with the department. Defence should be proud to derive added value from its capacity to play the role of a social promotion and training organisation. The anchoring of defence within society is a fundamental aspect of the STAR plan, highlighting, among other things, a reinvestment in defence schools and training centres, the abolition of the requirement of a pre-service diploma in defence – as is the case not only with the police, but also with the defence departments of countries such as France and Germany – the increase of internal promotions to a higher level, notably from volunteer to non-commissioned officer, or the enhanced cooperation with regional employment support bodies such as the VDAB, Actiris and Forem. Initially, I said that the purpose of updating the military programme law is to ensure that, in the long term, Defence has sufficient capacity to respond to new challenges today, including on national territory, and to manage tomorrow's crises and conflicts. To achieve this, the Council of Ministers, on 28 January, approved a continuous fiscal growth path of 1.54% of GDP, or €6.9 billion in 2030. This trajectory is indeed based on the needs expressed in the STAR plan for a healthy relationship between all areas. In addition, the budget achieved will cover both the capacity investments and the basic operating envelope, including the maintenance of new capacities and personnel costs. Capacity investments amount to EUR 10.2 billion. In addition to the personnel-related aspects, I wanted to focus in the STAR plan on the resilience of Defence through dual capabilities. Defence's tasks concern as much assistance to the nation as participation in operations of collective defence and crisis management operations or evacuation operations of nationals, in order to demonstrate the importance attached to the acquisition of capabilities that can be deployed in foreign operations areas and to support civilian capabilities in cooperation, for example, with the federal police, customs or civil protection services and civil protection units when they so request and the resources are available. Among these dual capacities, I can already mention, in general, the medical hub 2030 which will include a new crisis hospital and which will be part of partnerships with research centres, university hospitals and the civilian hospital network. On the other hand, last July's floods demonstrated the urgency of reinvesting in the engineering and logistics capabilities that can therefore also be deployed in the national territory in the event of natural disasters but also in the context of the health crisis. These resources will therefore be strengthened. A logistics hub will be developed under the name Joint Support Hub as part of the project to improve the deployment rate of Defense, military mobility and resilience of the country. That hub will also have the means to assist emergency services if necessary. New transport capacities will be developed, both for land and air transport. These capacities can also be deployed in a medical context, in evacuations or for humanitarian operations in close proximity to affected populations. Of course, we will also invest in cyber and intelligence, including unarmed drones. Recent developments have demonstrated the need for such investments. Reliable information and the transfer of this information will always be the key to ensuring our security. This concerns both the troops in operation and our critical infrastructure and the entire population. The acceleration of the development of the fifth cyber component will be part of this process of strengthening the SGRS through the creation of an e-command at the end of this year within the service. Other measures will also concern the protection of our territory from air attacks, including drones. At present, our country, which may prove to be a strategic target in the sense that it hosts many international organizations, does not have such protection capabilities. I come to a third major axis of the STAR plan, which aims to make Defense a player in the energy transition, as well as in recovery and innovation. Defence is making an effective effort to significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions from its military installations. Investment in infrastructure contributes to national targets to reduce the environmental impact of buildings with a view to CO2 neutrality by 2040. The Department will also continue its efforts to protect and improve the biodiversity of its sites in accordance with the National Biodiversity Strategy and in collaboration with regional agencies. In addition, the STAR plan will ensure that Defence becomes an actor and partner for research and industry. We want to reposition Defence as a partner in the economic and academic fabric. Cooperation on research and technology and research and development will thus be developed and will contribute to the influence of our national companies and thus to the creation of jobs in the European defence sector by contributing to the emergence of new capabilities. In this context, the STAR plan will create the Defence Industry and Research Strategy (DIRS) and Belgian participation in future European defence programmes. The DIRS must enable us to consolidate our industrial and technological defence base and contribute to its ever-increasing profile as a credible and reliable technological partner for the capabilities needed to achieve European strategic autonomy. Our own industrial base must in turn contribute to the construction of an equivalent base at European level. Finally, with a final, very important axis of the STAR plan, we want to make defence a credible part of European defence. The STAR Plan enables a coherent anchoring of capabilities with those of our privileged European and international partners. It supports a more European defence policy and fits in with a strong European strategy and autonomy. So this is not just viewed from an industrial point of view. As such, collaborations and the integration of our resources with our partners will continue, notably with the creation of a Belgian-Luxembourg reconnaissance battalion, the continuation of cooperation between the Belgian and Dutch marines and cooperation with France in the framework of the motorized capacity. That's the information I wanted to give you this morning. As I said, the STAR plan has yet to become a new law of military programming. It's a work being finalized. This law will be submitted to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible. Pending an opportunity to present the full STAR plan and the programming law in more detail, I summarize the plan as an issue to ensure security for everyone, as well as for our strategic partners and allies by giving the department a place in the heart of the nation and in the hearts of the citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u4	Mr Francken is sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u5	Madam Secretary, thank you for the limited explanation. The programming law has not yet been definitively clarified and cannot therefore be proposed in detail. That's a shame, of course. So we need to keep it a little general. You have explained here the STAR plan, part of the long-term Strategic Vision of Defence. I have asked you a number of written questions about this. You have already answered some of them, but some remain unanswered at the moment. It is clear that the plans you have for defence are ambitious, both in terms of content and budget. We can only welcome that. However, we still have a number of critical reservations about the Strategic Vision and the Programming Act that will be explained afterwards. You're going to apply the linear savings, so you announced. The answer you are going to get, or where you are going to save, is still our fault. In any case, this will certainly be followed up in the budget control and in the detailed discussion of the programming law. You have listed a number of investments and a number of points of interest. We regret that at the beginning of this legislature, or at least at the time of your arrival, you had to abandon the ambition to increase our defence efforts to 1.6 % of GDP. As we know, this has been done mainly under pressure from Ecolo-Groen and from Vooruit. We have a problem with the fact that at the moment it is only 1.54 %. In your policy paper with your vision, you still say you want to keep up with our NATO associates, but you do so only to a limited extent. Moreover, it is becoming increasingly difficult to keep up with them as our allies are increasingly investing in their defence, and now on average spending more than 1.7 % of their GDP on their defence apparatus. That way we are always left behind, Madam Secretary. We regret that the bar has been lowered here. As far as the equipment purchased is concerned, we welcome the fact that investments are being made in equipment and personnel. I wonder how these investments will be implemented in practice. Is it intended to buy more European in the short term? Is it intended to give our own defence industry a big boost? This can also be a response to the inflation that is currently affecting our country. Is that your plan? I hope you will be able to explain this further. In this respect, we must play a leading role by purchasing as much as possible from European partners. We believe that in this way our security interests can be better served in the long term than is currently the case. You mentioned the purchase of drones, but as far as that investment is concerned, we regret that you are purchasing drones that you will not arm. If we can believe the messages, there are those armorable drones. As far as we are concerned, there is little point in purchasing or using only observation drones as such, and not building up offensive capacity. However, that is a major part of the future of modern warfare and all the great powers are currently investing heavily in that segment. Last week we had a debate here about being more moral by using unarmed drones. In doing so, we give our enemies a head start and strengthen their values and interests. That is not more moral, but more dangerous for our military capacity and our national and European security. We hope that you will change your decision in this respect. With regard to raising the workforce, we share your objective of raising it to 29,000 men, albeit not until 2030. We haven't gotten there in a long time. The threshold reduction to attract young enthusiastic recruits, after all, has more to do than simply recruit. When we see that many young recruits enter the front door and quickly leave the back door, we sincerely hope that that tide can be reversed. That will not only be the wager increase that you put in front of you. Many soldiers join in to be able to leave on foreign mission, out of purpose for adventure. The number of military personnel in operation is currently very low in relation to our workforce. We would like to see this increased, but with contributions to meaningful military operations with clear objectives and an exit strategy, so that every military knows what he or she is getting into, what the objective is and how it will end in the long term. You also mentioned the completion of a cyber command by the end of 2022 with a cyber component as the ultimate goal. That's a good thing. At the end of last year, we found ourselves unable to cope with a cyber threat. The question remains how will you populate that cybercommand with capable IT personnel? Then I refer to the wage that is currently being offered. The way in which they are recruited is also rather shady to compete with the private market. That is also a disadvantage to us in your plans, no matter how noble they are. You also said that helping the nation is a core task for the defence industry. We do not share that view. We believe that the contributions of Defence in general and especially in the last two years have been very valuable, but for us it is not a core task of Defence. We clearly do not share that view. We cannot go into detail today, but we will be able to discuss your ambitious plans at a later date. We honor your ambition to strengthen both the staff and the budget as well as the equipment at Defense. How they are carried out and paid is still unclear at the moment. Given the rapidly changing and unpredictable security environment in which we find ourselves, we can only regret that. We hope it's not too little too late. We really need to keep up with the sharp strategic choices made by our partners. I have a feeling that we are always hovering behind us, that we are always working with the hand brake. I hope that these plans will be revised in the long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u6	Madam Minister, since your arrival, you have indeed requested an update of the 2016 Strategic Vision. I took part in those debates in committee in July 2021. I will not recycle that debate, but at least I can conclude that it is a very one-sided view of certain threats and challenges that we face. They are always forced into the narrow tunnel vision of the military. Of course, we do not agree with that, because not all the challenges in the world require military solutions. Having said that, you have just outlined the main lines of the vision and it will not surprise you that we are not really doing a joy dance. That contrasts with what Mrs Ponthier just said. We believe that the government is investing too much, including in offensive military capabilities. That's what the leaked list of equipment shows. It's about drones, mines and missile systems. The Belgian army has played a pioneering role in mining operations, as in Lebanon, but now we are apparently also going to buy mines to place them. What is the purpose of that, where and why the hell will that happen? There's something else that's freaking me out. The majority of the Vivaldi government consists of the Green and Social Democratic families, who almost trampled each other during the previous legislature when discussing the 2017 Programming Act for the most fervent opposition to that law. They considered it a blank cheque, putting it in a straitjacket to invest a certain percentage in Defense every year. Now, however, I see that the current government wants to invest even more than the Swedish Government has done. In the 2017 Programming Act, it was 9 billion euros, now it is 10.2 billion euros. You just spoke of EUR 9 billion, Madam Minister, while the VRT spoke of EUR 14 billion. So you need to clarify that a little bit. In any case, you opposed it at the time, just like we did. You contrasted the military investments with the many uses needed to meet the social needs. I could do the same analysis right now, just like a lot of people do. We come from the context of the corona pandemic, with a great deal of socio-economic suffering. People are awake to the affordability of their pensions and want to strengthen the statutory pension pillar. Our care system is cracking. We urgently need to invest in more preventive health care. This government has spent three weeks on it. The mountain has given birth to a mouse to give people alms. They will receive 165 euros to reduce their energy bills, while some people will pay 3,500 euros. Three weeks have been spent on these negotiations, and just at that moment you have come here to say triumphantly that a political consensus has been found to spend EUR 10 billion on Defence by 2030. That means 1 to 2 billion more. This is clearly not a problem, not even for the liberals who always argue for budgetary Orthodoxy. There is no money for pensions, there is no money for health care. Imagine us spending 1.1 billion on it, the alms that Greens said they were making a huge effort with. That is actually only the surplus of the VAT revenue that the State has collected and is now returning to the population. There was 800 million revenue, so actually that gift only leaves 300 million. So it's about 300 million, compared to 1 to 2 billion extra for the Defense Department. It is at least clear where the priorities of the Vivaldi government lie. Let me nuance this, Madam Secretary. This does not mean that we would be against, as your POP plan, People Our Priority, indicates, improving the status of the military and increasing salaries. The Statute must indeed be made more attractive. We have no problem with that in itself. However, something with which we obviously have a problem is that you subscribe to NATO's logic. You are Secretary of Defense, but you also want to invest very clearly in offensive military capabilities. You have also announced that a lot of material will be purchased for dual use. I fear that you want to be a good student in NATO class, when we know that NATO is already responsible for more than half of all military expenditure in the world. Nevertheless, small Belgium is seriously going to play above its weight to join the military bid. Eventually, an arms race is launched with NATO's self-declared strategic enemies. NATO must, of course, continue to be able to reinvent itself to ensure that defence efforts continue to increase. Madam Minister, we have a great deal of reservations and questions about this, especially if we want to continue with NATO's growth path. You suggested 1.6 % but you want to go to 2 % in the end. However, we have seen what has brought us to participate in military adventures under the direction of the United States. There aren't really many success stories. Think of Libya and Afghanistan. You say that helping the nation must be a core task. One paragraph is devoted to this in the update of the Strategic Vision. That is the problem, the contradiction you must face. The fact that the Belgian army is constantly being questioned and constantly charged with all kinds of efforts imposed by NATO, by the fact that the intervention capacity must have, unfortunately, cannot fulfil the core task of helping the nation. We saw this in the floods in August last year, and we will be faced with even more extreme weather phenomena in the future. If you ask us what the priority should be, it is indeed about helping the nation, which is a core task. This is more important than building operational capabilities to be used to realise the geopolitical agenda of the United States. Madam Minister, these were some important comments and reservations. I have a few more questions. Perhaps you can give some clarification on that. I understand the government still has a few things to clear up. What will be the relative share of investment, of that 10 billion growth package? That is still unclear to me. They're gonna put that in a program law. You're going to invest 10 billion. You're also saying you're gonna recruit 5,000 more soldiers, that we're gonna go from 24,000 to 29,000 soldiers. Are those operating costs? Is that exploitation? That's gonna come back every year, too. Is that included in this, or does it still need to be budgeted? That's an important nuance, isn't it? How much of this 10.2 billion euro will be spent on dual use and how much on defensive military capacity? You have also paid attention to cyber security. However, I wonder to what extent the cyber component will be used offensively. Madam Secretary, those were a few questions. I hope you will be able to provide some clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for this milestone. We are only here; there will still be discussions and some are under way. It is important that we have this debate and that it be more than a general repetition of the time when we have the final document. This debate should also be able to inform your thoughts within the government. It is clear that we are talking about considerable amounts, especially since we are facing a health, economic and social crisis. However, we also face decades of disinvestment in Defence, with previous governments. So I understand that today we have to do important things in Defence. I am thinking, among other things, of staff and infrastructure, which have been abandoned for a long time and which need to be renovated. In particular, they need to be brought up to standards in order to make them more energy efficient, and to reduce CO2 emissions across Defence. This is extremely important from an ecological point of view; the same is true from a social point of view, the salary increase of the staff and all the work you have put in place prove it. This is a priority that we must support and support. At the same time, we need to build dual capacities, as you said. I'm also thinking about medical capabilities, helicopters and the cyber domain. That's what I keep in the important abilities. Obviously, with the climate crisis being discussed, it is certain that we will still, unfortunately, often need Defence and its equipment to help the population in crisis situations. I am thinking of floods but also of coronavirus, as is the case now and again for a moment. This should therefore be considered. However, most of the crises we are experiencing today require non-military and prevention-oriented responses. That is why, with this increase in the defence budget, we must ensure that we do not jeopardize the budgets of other departments working on the causes of crises. I am referring, for example, to foreign affairs, development cooperation or departments working on climate change. I think this is very important, but the aim is not to cut those budgets. We agree. I'm just saying that this must be accompanied by this work. I see you're making grimaces, minister; I know it's not you, but I'm just saying that globally, it must also be a point of attention. I think it's important. After the debate on what we want, there will be the debate on how we want it, and when. I'm not going to go any further than that. I think we'll have more discussions later. Thank you, Madam Minister, for your presentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u8	Mr President, as Mr Defossé has just said, this is indeed only a first step in a long-term work. The minister, whom I thank for the presentation, recalled the process that was followed, with a strategic reflection that was presented to us in a timely manner, and the decisions that were made in consultation with the staff. The plan to which this has resulted is reorienting what has been done in the past. It corrects some of the directions taken in the past. I would be tempted to say that this is a plan that is both proactive, prudent and balanced, since we are talking again about the first priority. Because, whether we want it or not, to have planes, drones and all the equipment you want, if there are no soldiers and people to run them, you can put them in the garage. Clearly, human priority is undoubtedly a necessity in every enterprise. As human is also present in e-commerce companies. This is the first concern, and so it is happy, because emphasis is placed on the financial situation of the military, the situation of their families, the accompaniment, pensioners, etc. This must be taken into account as well. Recognition must be given, as is the case with any worker. I am not going to use the term "global plan", because at another time, the global plan had a bad reputation. But it takes over the various existing activities by updating them and adds the cyber domain, which is actually a vision for the future. As for participation, I mean participation in NATO, etc. The commitments that are being made are being met to their full extent, without falling into the repeated demands of the NATO's big ally, who would like us to spend more and more. However, it is better to spend better, in particular through pooling at European level for large purchases. For the rest, it would be a mistake to oppose Defence spending to other expenditures. The government must respond to the challenges it faces and respond to them in the most coordinated way possible. To do so, departments must be properly equipped, both in terms of staff and equipment. If there were no personnel or equipment to assist in crises such as those we experienced during the floods, we would be critical of why the means were not given to Defence to help. Such criticisms have already been made. And it was those same people who criticized the absence of the Defence, while it was very present at the flood sites, who are now critical of the increase in budgets. It is a question of balance and choice. Indeed, for a number of years, the department was mistreated. He wasn't given enough attention. Today, we are correcting and rebalancing things in a coherent set that must be the whole of government. Yet, within governments, everyone wants to get the cover for himself. In this case, I believe that the Minister of Defence has been able to defend the department's budget and priorities. I don't have a particular question, just a consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u9	Mr President, Madam Minister, I am beginning to be "used" by a number of statements made by my friends and colleagues from the Vivaldi majority at the level of Ecolo which systematically led us to believe that there had been a major disinvestment in defence before, before they arrived. Good thing they're here! I will therefore pass on the table of disinvestments which have been made under the previous legislature to the chairman of the committee, if he permits, so that we can systematically refer, if necessary, to the work which has been carried out in a beautiful collaboration also between the N-VA, the Open Vld and the CD&V. This will allow us to object to a number of things. What is being done today by Minister Dedonder, at the head of our National Defence, is an excellent job, as we can modestly believe that our share of defence investment in the previous Parliament was, without a doubt, a good job. Madam Minister, you are talking about an investment of EUR 10.2 billion, but this is not just about a material investment. I think it would be interesting if you could tell us what's going on here. You have to move on two legs, the equipment and the staff. When I hear the PTB, right now in its criticisms, tell us that socially, we should spend somewhere else, but what do we do in that majority? We, ladies and gentlemen of the PTB, have a very strong social and economic commitment to staff. That is how we will maintain the attractiveness of Defence. The Minister will no doubt go back to the effort she has made and the agreement she has obtained with respect to salary revalorization for Defence personnel. You think we shouldn't raise the salaries of our military, PTB colleagues? Should we raise all the other salaries but not that of the military? Shouldn't there be additional financial commitments to cover the pensions of these members as well? Madam Minister, if you still had a few pension adjustments, because who says wage increases say impact on pensions two years later, I think you can probably tell us today that you have the guarantees that the budget impact on pensions is also covered in the agreement you reached on January 28. It's important because one can't go without the other. We cannot say that wages will be raised but that we do not have the budgetary capacity to guarantee pensions later. Some spoke of a general rehearsal. Minister, I saw your photo on Instagram and your appetite for pancakes. I would like you to have as much appetite as possible to present us as quickly as possible, even though I know that it is not solely up to you, the law of military programming and the strategic vision as a whole. We already planned to do it last year. A number of settings are starting. I think you have the will, this time, to have a real debate. Here we talk about the budget again, we have an additional element. However, we look forward to you arriving with these essential elements. You can count on our political formation to support you in this context. The strategic vision and the military programming law will be able to articulate and completely put your budget on track. In any case, you got 1.54% of GDP. I want to congratulate you because it was not won and a number of parties, even the majority, already thought it was too much. That's very good 1.54%. It's a great progression and we need it. Indeed, it seems to me that we sometimes have debates disconnected from reality. One hundred thousand Russian soldiers are on the NATO border. I don't want us to be going to war at the Belgian level. We have a desire for peace but also for security. My excellent colleague Kattrin Jadin will probably talk about this better because she has the advantage of sitting also in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which has received the Russian and Ukrainian ambassadors in Belgium. Today, when we have discussions on the budget increase, on a strategic vision that combines new investments in equipment and personnel – all those projects that you are defending and doing well, Madam Minister – we can only lead them in the light of what is necessary in view of the situation in Europe today. This means investing more in defence. We know that a party like the PTB is anti-Atlanticist and we know where his friends are, that is, on the Russian side. It is normal, therefore, that it systematically criticizes any investment in defence. We know where he is. They must naturally be heard and listened to in the light of these realities. Beyond the wait – and no doubt you will want to commit to a timing in terms of military programming law and strategic vision – we tell you all our support to continue. There is still the two elements of the question, namely the clarification of the 10.2 billion, in addition to military investment, it seems, and the commitment to pensions. These interesting elements had not been completely finalised in the budget debate, you will remember, until, if I may say, "the big room" to come in our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u10	Mr President, Minister, I was not going to say much because I think it is a difficult debate. We have heard a lot from different sources, but there is no text yet, which is normal and the Minister has also indicated this in an e-mail. However, a number of things have been said, so I would like to say a little more. It is clear, and that is about the only right thing Mr De Vuyst has said, that this government is investing a great deal, even more than the Swedish Government. Geopolitical events have taken place in recent years and we cannot say that 2021 has been a good year for Defence. If we see the different crises we faced in 2021, we cannot say that Defence was a department in top form. It is good that the spirits have matured with everyone in the government and that real investment is being made. As Mr Ducarme said, Mr De Vuyst, you are moving towards social media investment, but there is also investment in people, in safe materials and in new quarters. I fear that there is a lack of knowledge about the situation on the ground. I find it strange that a party that stands up for les travailleurs makes such reservations and ignores that social dimension. After all, this plan is a very social plan. It is typical for the press and for this committee to look at helicopters and vessels. I make that mistake sometimes, but it's also an investment in people. The bets, very important and quite rightly, are raised and partly aligned and last Friday there was a debate on the meal cheques. As regards the number of men, the strategic committee had said that 25 or 26,000 men are far too few and that this number had to be increased. The Minister here confirms that there will be 29,000. These are important numbers, and that also responds not only to the question of the Staff, but also to what the Strategic Committee has said. There is investment in people, but also in material. Cyber is also very important. You referred to it a few times. In De Oordend on Radio 1 this subject was also discussed. We need to pay more attention to everything that has to do with cyber capacity. Mr President, we agree on helicopters. The plans for helicopter capacity are ambitious. Madam Minister, since there will be a programme law, I would ask you to take immediate steps to cooperate with partners in our neighbouring countries. At the moment, we can't do that, because we're running out of helicopter capacity. Based on the types in which you wish to invest, by which I do not mean the brand names or subtypes of a brand, but rather the nature and function of the helicopters, there is a great potential to pool and share with the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Germany in the first place. The strategic committee has also written many sensible things in the field of offensive capabilities. A very good step is, for example, to develop the capacity to lay mines. We have been an example for decades for many countries in the field of mine control. NATO school is also on our territory. So we have capacity and expertise. The previous government has bought new platforms. It is important to equip those vessels for that capacity as well. Furthermore, some time ago, this government gave the green light to strengthen the artillery by 155 mm. Air defense is also very important. Finally, in the field of offensive capacity, we absolutely need to join a number of EU projects for the next generation of fighters. That may be a bit strange, because the F-35 will not be delivered for a few years. However, we must already have this debate and it is being held within the government. I insist that we should also have the courage to enter the main battle tank, the future Eurotank. Mr Flahaut, the decision has been made for the median capacity. We have organized our Land component on that. Here too, however, we must stay awake for what is happening geopolitically and strategically. Madam Minister, we must get in there, because of the strong industrial anchoring in our country. You also have the necessary attention in your plans. Finally, I would like to make two more points. The drones have now been decided that they will not be armed. My personal opinion is that that decision is a pity. I am convinced that it can be perfect; we may now have the door, but tomorrow we will be able to open it again and we will have to move towards an armament of that capacity in the long run. It is amazing that the French use the same devices, but that they can intervene in an operation somewhere in Africa, for example. If Belgian troops get into trouble, Belgian drones will also be called up. But those drones aren't armed. The French drones of the same type are beside it and are armed. It will then be the French who come to help the Belgians. There is nothing wrong with that, but that is a problem that we will have to tackle in the future and for which we will have to introduce a change. I fully understand the current position. It is my personal opinion that I should like to share this point. Secondly, the strategic committee believes that our presence at sea is very important. I also regret personally that the third frigate is not coming. I regret that. I certainly hope that the two frigates that will come will be properly equipped with, among other things, sufficient rocket systems. We owe that to the crews. We owe that to our Navy. I will continue to follow what our patrols do in the future. There we see a huge increase in tasks for these two vessels, namely the Castor and the Pollux. The question will have to be raised at some point whether we should purchase a third vessel.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u11	In our committee, it has often been said almost unanimously that not only do we have to put an end to the savings in defence, but we also need new investments. You are now taking action, Madam Minister, and thereby breaking the trend with your predecessors. You invest not only firmly, but also much wider. It didn't work out. There is little point in ordering weapons, as the previous government has done, which we are paying off now, when there is too little or insufficient qualified staff to serve them, who are also in bad barracks and have to operate under bad conditions. With your plans, you're making the reason why we've given you the confidence. Mr Pillen pointed out that in the first year of your presidency you suffered from a number of incidents, often with a clear link to the under-financing of the past. The opposition gave you the full load for this, although you cannot be held responsible for past savings. You yourself say you want to look ahead and find investment indispensable for the future. Indeed, investment is now on the table, with a concrete growth path of 1.54 % of our GDP. The tone of the colleague of the Flemish Interest seems to me to be very low, since this is a big investment. Criticism at the quay is easy if one has never taken on any policy responsibility. You keep your word, Madam Secretary, and we stand by you. For the sake of the PVDA colleague, I will explain exactly why we support the plans. We criticized the programming law for the one-sided investment in weapons. Our election programme has already shown that we are in favour of more and wider investment in defence, namely in people, buildings and equipment. You take it off here as if the investments would be made in a social cemetery. Nothing could be further from the truth. As far as pensions are concerned, the government will increase the minimum pensions to EUR 1,500. While you are petitioning for this, we are making sure that this increase actually takes place. That deal's been made. Moreover, by the end of the legislative term, 4 billion more will go to health care. Finally, you think that we are only giving alms in the light of the rising energy bill. In our country, however, no less than 1 million families benefit from the protection of the social tariff, which is half of the commercial energy tariff for electricity, and one fifth of the gas tariff, a protection which is similar to that found in few other European countries. Then we must not talk about alms. The beneficiaries of that measure are indeed well protected. If it is claimed that there is investment in defence but that nothing else is happening in the meantime, then the facts are not presented correctly. Madam Secretary, the reason why we support the plans is as follows. We have chosen to organise a defence apparatus, and that brings with it responsibility. That is to say that this organization must be given the means to cooperate and that people must be compensated properly. In recent years' security policy, a lot of attention has been paid to weapons and expensive safety tracks at airports, while in the meantime there has been no investment in people. We've had the police's actions, today the guards strike. You'll take responsibility for it in advance and invest in the people. A higher wage will of course help to find additional soldiers, but that will not be enough. Mrs Ponthier says that we should send them on a foreign mission once in a while to keep them in service. It's gonna take a lot more than that. We must ensure that the military can work properly, in modern barracks, with good equipment. We must also pay attention to their social security and their well-being in the organisation. I know the state of a lot of barracks in my region, and I can assure you that it is absolutely necessary to invest in them so that they can work better. They also need to be spread more widely across the regions. A modern employer ensures that his employees can work close to home. Investment is also needed to reduce the too high ecological impact of the device. I am glad that we will soon be paying particular attention to this in our committee. Unlike the PVDA, which sketches the image as if Defense became a war machine, we are convinced that Defense will become more than that. The government has agreed to tie the growth path for investment in development cooperation to it as well. After all, defence is only part of a broader approach, with diplomacy and development. Dual usevan defense is a very important aspect for us. The corona crisis and the floods have made it clear that we must also be able to count on defence. Defense has a role in this, besides its role outside our national borders. For us, it is important that we also pay attention to these investments. I believe that the security services in our country still work far too much as islands. We should see an evolution in that too, and that is certainly possible. The army, the police, other services, we all end up working for the same country. Is that why we have to let go of the idea of the war machine completely? Nor can I ignore the increase in geopolitical tensions in the world and the new threats today. The update has also shown this. We are not only dealing with global warming, but also with the cyber threat. Investment in our cyber and intelligence services is certainly justified for us today. In addition, we are showing ourselves to be a more reliable partner for our NATO counterparts, especially for our European partners. Last week we had a discussion on the need for a stronger European pillar in NATO. The crisis in Ukraine makes that clear. The government's choice will help in this. Madam Secretary, for all these reasons, we will support you in your plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u12	Madam Secretary, thank you for coming here to present your STAR plan. You said that there has been a budgetary discussion within the government, and then you presented some elements that are a determining factor in the logic of your policy paper. You formulated a number of clamps. You mentioned, for example, the deployment of personnel and the involvement of the low-skilled in the defence apparatus. You also want to make investments in barracks. So far, little news under the sun. I would have hoped that you would be more specific, but that is not the case for the time being. Madam Minister, I would like to comment on three points. Firstly, the need for an increase in the budget. It is proudly announced here that 10 billion will be pumped in, which is also necessary. We are hearing today that a link has also been established within the government with development cooperation. Mr Verduyckt has just said that. What exactly does this link with development cooperation look like? That element had escaped me so far. So I'd like to get some more information on that. Secondly, you are actually turning things around a bit. Within the government, it is agreed how much the defence budget can be increased. For the sake of clarity, we are not opposed to increasing the budget, we will certainly not oppose it, for us should it go any further. However, you are turning things around a bit. One might suspect that the necessity is being taken into account. What commitment is needed, what personnel capacity is needed and what investment plan is attached to this? Then budgets can be attached to it. Now you, no doubt unintentionally, give the impression that compromise or cow-trading has been achieved. It has been decided how much it would be, without considering the investments needed to realize your plans, after which the budgets were increased. Meanwhile, it's splashed in the press that Ecolo didn't want it to be raised to 1.6 billion and now we know where we landed. Former Minister of Defence Vandeput at the time had a concrete investment programme with different disciplines, not only for combat capacity but for many aspects. Extreme links had a lot of criticism and populist slogans at the time, but at least it was clear what the investments were for and then the budgets were attached to them. Now you're turning things around. You think that former Minister Vandeput focused too much on these capacities and says that there is now more attention to staff. I think that's silly. If you are honest, you would admit that you are very happy with the investments that have been made during the past reign. Imagine if they hadn't been done, so there wouldn't have been any investment in the Air Force, the Army or the Navy. So where would we be today? All the parties in Parliament agreed at that time that there was good investment in capacity and that the focus could now be placed on staff. To say now that there is too much focus on investment is faint. We broadly follow your plans regarding staff, Madam Secretary, but do not lose sight of the capabilities. Last week you were able to tell us that no text, table or document could be submitted to this committee. Today we hear that a plan has been knocked off. There will be investments in helicopter capacity, there will be no armed drones and additional capacity against cybercrime will be invested, which is part of your cyber plan. Is there a cyber plan or not? It is not mentioned in the press release on your website. We also hear that according to the plan there will be no third frigate. What about the air force capability, we don't know. In short, the STAR plan is more than your press release, but you say there is no text. I find that a rather curious course of action. EUR 10 billion will be released, but we do not know the calculated logic behind it. What capacity is invested in or not? I suspect that these elements are indeed in the STAR plan, but you say that there is no text, table or document to deliver to Parliament. I do not agree with that, and I ask you to give us the concrete plan. The plan is there, although it may not have been worked out in full detail. It may still need to be updated, but it certainly contains a lot of information that we, as Members of Parliament, do not have at the moment. That makes this meeting difficult, if you don't mind me saying so. A third point is timing. Reference has already been made to the Strategic Committee. In the spring of 2021, the experts provided you and Parliament with a report which included a list. You then started to do so. We thought the results would be presented when discussing your policy letter in autumn 2021. With the corresponding budget set for 2022, we thought that work would be done on updating the Strategic Vision and perhaps also on the military programming law. However, that was not the case. Today, apart from the statement you make here and the press text on your website, we do not have much left. For now, we are stuck in generalities. In your statement earlier, you say that you will present the update of the Strategic Vision and the military programming law to Parliament as soon as possible. Could you be a little more specific? What do you mean, as soon as possible? What timing do you have for coming to Parliament with these two documents? The document and the military programming law must also be approved by Parliament. This will require a large number of implementing files. What timing is needed to implement your plans during this period? At the end of your speech, you said that you dreamed that our citizens would shut down defence again. We all hope so. The N-VA has a very warm heart for the men and women of the Defense Department. That is why I am counting on you to close Parliament and this committee in your heart in particular and to give us the plans that are in fact there. You have been rather foggy in the past about the implementation of your POP plan. What logic is behind the 10.2 billion? There is a lack of budgetary transparency. I'm counting on your commitment to provide us with that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u13	Mr President, I will not be very long. Thank you, Minister, and your team for the information we have received. We have already been able to mention, in the general policy note but also in the budgetary debates that we have conducted at the end of the year, a series of things that are of great interest to us. We now see that Defence's Strategic Vision is also gradually taking the form announced, either for staff strengthening or for infrastructure investments in our country. Like my colleague Daniel Ducrame, I am very pleased about this. You won a battle, minister. This battle is that of having managed to increase budget capacity in order to meet this challenge, which is the whole vision that Defence will have to consider by 2030. I would also like to make it clear that we will have to look even further at a global and European situation that is becoming less and less secure. At the moment, we have a lot of debate about what is happening in Ukraine, on the Russian border, but we also know the other challenges. We also know that, as partners in NATO - together with other European Member States - we will need to make a greater contribution if we are to achieve the same security in the future and be able to meet the demands that are made to us on a regular basis. I would therefore like to ask you, Madam Minister, to present us with a timing in relation to the decisions that will need to be clarified urgently. You have created hope, especially among all those waiting for Defence to invest. I am talking about our economic actors and I know that there is also a great deal of economic impact in our country, including in relation to the investments that the previous government has made. Moreover, companies have a great deal of expectations in this area. As far as the F-35s are concerned, there is not only their purchase but also their maintenance. Clarification is also needed as to the collaborations we want for Defence equipment. I am thinking, for example, of buying the two frigates with our Dutch friends. It would be better to explain what Belgium can expect on this occasion at the level of economic actors. Finally, Mr President, I would like to mention the collaboration within the framework of the future tank programme, which could take place in particular with the Germans, and which could be very interesting from many points of view for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u14	I give Mr De Vuyst one minute for a personal fact, but we are not going to start a second round.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u15	Mr President, my name has just fallen a few times, which does not surprise me, since our party often places itself outside the pensée unique, especially in the Committee on Defence. I advise colleagues to increase the bandwidth a little bit. Words are being put in my mouth, while I have just made a very nuanced statement. As far as safety guarantees are concerned, we are talking all the time about collective deterrents, which are already sufficient. Germany, the United Kingdom and France each have almost a larger defence budget than Russia. So there is enough collective deterrent. What can also provide security guarantees is investment in disarmament, in dialogue and in cooperation. I am thinking of the OSCE, the spirit of Helsinki and cooperative security. Disarm is also in the coalition agreement. We want to ensure that nuclear disarmament is also on the agenda instead of modernising the nuclear arsenal, including in Kleine Brogel, to which billions will go. That is what we want to bring to this debate, which is important. This will also guarantee security, but one always assumes the opposite of a military offer. People know what they're getting into, but they don't know where they're gonna end up. I would like to call on the Minister to follow the tradition of our country and to play a diplomatic vanguard to defuse conflicts within various organisations and to set up a new security architecture in which we do not follow the path of the systemic rivals who always push NATO forward, but leave the path of confrontation and go to de-escalation. There is indeed a social component and a wrong picture has been created, as if we were opposed to the revalidation of the status of the military and military vouchers and a higher pension. We are in favour of this, but what we fit in for is that we follow the logic of NATO and invest more in offensive capacity, which is unnecessary, while there are many other priorities in which all these billions can be invested.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u16	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your contributions. As you pointed out, I have always indicated that at this stage, I am not going to come and present you with the programming law, but with the trajectory and the outline. Based on this information, you wanted me to come. So I am happy to come this morning, but the rules were clear from the beginning. Mr Buysrogge, I understand that I disappoint you, because I do not come with the purchase of an additional ten F-35. That said, let's be honest, it's been a long time since I've been in politics, but I'll never get used to bad faith. Listening to you, you might think I've been hanging out for a year and I'm fooling you with vain hopes. To return to what we are dealing with, namely the STAR plan, it is obvious that we have not defined a budget and that we are only working on a document. You know that, since I recalled it in my speech. The experts came to present their threat analysis and recommendations, after we asked them in December 2020. Yes, the world is changing and, unfortunately, the situation is deteriorating, with threats increasing. On this basis, it has always been clear that we are working on this update of the Strategic Vision. You will understand that it does not happen at once to spoon pot, because this document is extremely important. We wanted a coherent and accurate analysis, as well as identification of needs. Similarly, we wanted an investment that is fair - even if it seems to some to be high - and hence the importance of the dual capacities that we can use on one or the other territory. In short, I will not present this text to you today, as it will be presented to the Council of Ministers in the coming weeks. As soon as it has been approved, you will immediately become aware of this programming law that we can discuss. The rules have always been clear, and it cannot be said either that we are disappointed that we have nothing today since it was indicated in that sense. I thank everyone for recognizing that this is an important investment and that work has been done. We have seen some incidents but also some progress. It is for this reason that, beyond hope - when I came to the head of this department, I felt the hope of change on the part of the military - dossiers have materialized. Both of you talked about the personnel upgrade plan. It was a hope and it became a reality. Starting in March, members will benefit from an increase in salary and, in November, meal vouchers. This is only the beginning - as I said in my speech - of taking staff into account in this necessary balance with capabilities. One doesn't go without the other. This is the first time in this Strategic Vision that staff are secure and that a growth path is indicated with matching means for staff and not an offensive catalogue of capabilities. Not at all! I wonder if you have heard my entire intervention because we are reorienting and adjusting our capabilities according to our geostrategic environment. Let's not face it! Many have said: let us look at the situation in East and Africa! Look at the evolution of the situation with regard to the attacks on our territory and in neighbouring countries! Look what's going on! We can't be naive. With regard to cyber, we are regularly victims of cyber attacks, not only at the level of the Defence but also at the level of everyone: our institutions, hospitals, etc. In this case, it is a matter of balance. When I talk about aid to the nation, I mean that every crisis we've seen in recent years, it's to Defence that we've turned to get help, support. It's always in this logic. We need to have the capacity to intervene in support. That is why we are investing in cyber, logistics and even medical. It's obviously important. And I remember your colleague, Mr Boukili, who, at the time of the floods, said: "But the Defence has yet to do more! The Defence has yet to do more!" I replied each time, as in the context of the covid, that we were putting all our human abilities and resources at our disposal. That's right. Now, if we had had more capacity at the time, it would certainly have been useful. In this case, if we only go back to the floods, with the logistics hub, with the complementary engineering and logistics resources, we will have capabilities for that too. I hope we don't need it, but, anyway, these capabilities will serve us when we deploy abroad. We deploy abroad, not to offend. You are well aware that the core business at the defence level is first to train local troops so that they are as autonomous as possible and, at the same time, to help the people and the development of these countries. This is the famous 3D approach, with diplomacy and development cooperation. One doesn't go without the other. I am confident that Meryame Kitir will also come with a plan in this direction for a path to development cooperation. The ideal project is where we are three on the ground, with Defence to secure and Development Cooperation to carry out projects with local people. It's the ideal, and that's what we're trying to reach. Sometimes we've had situations where it wasn't possible. You mentioned some of them, but our goal is always to work in that direction. So I can't let you say. This is certainly not a military overbid in this Strategic Vision, certainly not! I'd like to cut the duck wings right away. As I pointed out, as far as the Strategic Vision is concerned, it has been more than a year since the process was initiated with this committee of experts, so well before the situation in Ukraine. It is therefore not necessary to link one to the other. It is not because the situation is such that it is now between Russia and Ukraine that the budgets have been increased in order to have more military personnel, to have more missiles, and all that I have also heard of error. Let's go back to the fundamental, as I explained to you. You will also see this yourself in the programming law. I have heard many considerations and very few questions; I will still go back to some points. I heard we were talking about the boost to our industry. I am obviously very sensitive to it, too. This is an important point, one of the guidelines of an open defence for society, which establishes partnerships, both with the world of training, the academic world, and with both companies. In this programming law, we intend to indicate a substantial research and development budget, to support our businesses, to promote knowledge, technology and employment in Belgium. It's fundamental. We must be able to involve our companies as soon as the projects are developed and not at the end of the race, when we have already bought the capabilities. It is really an inverted process, in which I believe a great deal, and which will also allow us, through our companies in Belgium, to position ourselves internationally and to be present in future developments of European and transatlantic capabilities. So I'm planning an R&D budget and budgets for future capacity development programs as well. That's the point. Buying European is of course what we prefer. We also support Defence Europe and it is also an important line. It goes without saying that we want to buy as many European capabilities as possible. This is a direction we want to take. We have already talked at length about recruitment. I think last year was a good indicator of the feeling of the people who still believe in their defence. Young people want to serve their country: 8,300 applicants for 2,500 military positions, it's beautiful! It was never seen since the Cold War, if we want to use that term at that time. I hear there's attrition. That is why the POP plan was created. It concerns everything that is revalued but that is acquired. But that does not stop there and some have said so. I will mention the improvement of the working environment through the renovation of infrastructure; others have spoken about missions abroad. It's obviously important. Today, they are less deployed abroad; it is short-term and we know it very well. This has already been discussed repeatedly in the Operations Monitoring Committee. That's not why we're going to stay as it is. So, of course, we need to be able to deploy. As far as cyber is concerned, I am systematically asked how I intend to recruit. We're going to recruit both qualified profiles and people who aren't, and we're going to train them. Will it be difficult? Yes, surely, as with all technical occupations, it is certainly difficult. What's the alternative? Don't create a Cyber Component because we say in advance that we're not going to find the staff? No, I don't think so. Therefore, the mechanics for recruitment are launched and, in parallel, contacts are established with companies working in the cyber field in order to possibly work together within the framework, in particular, of the staff pool. As far as the impact on pensions mentioned by Mr Ducrame is concerned, yes, this impact is covered. Staff is covered under the core envelope, which also follows a path of growth up to 2030. With regard to the detailed amount of ten billions, I will go back to it in detail in the context of the programming law, since I have also mentioned here a budget for research and development (R&D). We will also be able to detail it once the government has made a decision. It is with pleasure that we will come back to each of the lines of this budget in the coming weeks. I don't know if I've answered everything, but I think I've answered most of your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u17	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. You normally try to answer all the questions for which I thank you. You have spoken about the boost for industry, which is indeed almost vital, not only for our economy, but also for the defence sector, and therefore for our security. About research and development you all report positive elements. No one can be negative about the staff rehabilitation, which is urgently needed at the moment. It's about the raise and meal cheques that are finally there, three years after the announcement. I leave it to me to name a success story in the middle or meal cheques in itself, but well, they are coming, albeit not until November. That's all a little late, but it's not bad that it comes eventually. You have talked about investment, not so much in detail, but globally. Above all, I would like to stress that it is important to invest smartly. For example, we have already talked about the drones, including the underwater drones or the smart mines. It is important to buy the right material, in the right place, with the right partners, simply because we cannot be left behind. We need to keep up. We see that our other partners invest smartly. In the past, too often, we have opted for the cheapest solution, while we have to focus more on bold investments, just like our partners. You have also cited the cyber defense, which is extremely crucial. I also believe that we should not act too defensively in this respect, but that we should act on an offensive basis. I hope it will go that way in the long term. It is a good thing that the modern and adapted infrastructure you mentioned is coming. To the concrete details, such as the Flemish location for the barracks of the future, we still have guessing. Overall, in this preliminary general context, I would like to point out that we cannot invest too much with the hand brakes or conduct policies. I think that is a general conclusion on a number of points. So we're sure to follow up on this story. I would like to stress that our group, together with you, has a heart for our defence and, of course, for our military, which, day after day, gives the best of itself in all respects.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u18	Madam Minister, you said that our criticism regarding the ordering of offensive military equipment was not correct and that you understood I was reorienting. That is in contrast to the list of which we were able to get to know through all kinds of media, such as the VRT. Then where exactly did these messages come from? So you are reorienting and we are eagerly waiting to see what it will eventually become. You will step up the help to the nation. It needs to be scaled up. You want to give this priority, but that has received very little attention in the actualization of the Strategic Vision for Defence. Anyway, you want to bet on the dual use capacity, which means that the material purchased for the purpose of helping the nation can still be used and used as part of foreign intervention orders. That's where the shoe pinches. We often fight with our Belgian army above our weight. We often follow the logic of interventions, also in the context of tensions between Russia and Ukraine. In doing so, we must have the necessary intervention capacity at our disposal, think of the readiness. That's gonna take a lot of D.O.D. So we have to put an end to that. It is true that there are many geopolitical tensions, for which we cannot be insensitive, but you could deal with them in a different way. You don't have to take a scary militaristic approach. You can also go back to the Minsk agreement, as the French President Macron has just done, to create a de-escalation between Russia and NATO, and between Russia and Ukraine. The same result is sought. There are confidence building measures, there is dialogue. This could eventually lead to mutual demilitarisation and disarmament. This also creates safety. That is much cheaper than investing in expensive military capacity. Again, we know what we're gonna do, but we don't know where we're gonna end up. Madam Secretary, in NATO, the United States continues to wave the sceptre. They have a very political agenda. Even now, in the conflict between Ukraine and Russia, they are constantly boasting a great deal of communication, namely that Russia is 70% ready and will soon invade Ukraine. There are other interests behind this. The Cold War has unfortunately been completely back away. We must not allow ourselves to be caught up in this; that is a trap. May I point out, however, that the words of some committee members are a little scary? They criticise the way in which, in the long term, the arms race is being shaped, with the spirits being aged to arm us further, which will ultimately lead to more insecurity than security, and to transatlantic relations and NATO, by definition in the camp of Russia or, for example, China, another strategic rival that NATO recently invented. That's very disturbing. We would like to warn against that binary thinking pattern, a cold-war thinking and mentality. I call once again on the Social Democrats and the Greens, including in the present government, to remain faithful to the original pacifist line and to the spirit of Helsinki of mutual disarmament. Moreover, do not forget the passage in the coalition agreement to work towards better arms control and disarmament, including nuclear disarmament with a nuclear ban treaty. That is the path we are taking and which is far more important than taking part in a story of blind military capacity. Madam Secretary, I repeat that there is enough deterrent. There's a huge amount of investment in military equipment. I suggest that Belgium does not allow itself to be caught and does not follow the path of NATO and equip the army in such a way that aid to the nation can be organized even better. We are, among other things, active in the field of training abroad within the framework of the United Nations. In this respect, we can do our thing, as in the area of peacekeeping and mine clearance, for example, in Lebanon. We have no problem with that. However, we have a fundamental problem with the fact that NATO is a geopolitical interest organisation that often takes us on a tow to do more harm than good. You have just spoken about Mali, for example. The entire Sahel region has been destabilised by NATO's ill-thought-out and reckless military intervention in Libya in 2011. All the Libyan state was then destroyed and all the weapons were spread all over the Sahel. It is now thought that a new military solution must be found to a problem which has been caused by the military. We urgently need to think about this and look into ourselves, because military capacity in NATO and interventions do not, in my opinion, create a safer environment in the long term, but a more unsafe environment. I'm just gonna give that to you. A lot of things have just been put in our mouths, but it would lead me too far if I were to go into that, Madam Minister. There will be plenty of opportunities to discuss this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u19	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for the answers you gave to the questions asked by my colleagues because, as far as I am concerned, I did not question you. First of all, I note your respect for the men and women of the Defence. I am thinking in particular of raising wages and improving the working environment. We will all agree that these measures were really necessary because the attention paid to the military has been somewhat lacking in the past. You said you were sorry to disappoint our colleague chairman of this committee for not announcing the purchase of ten new F-35s. I must confess that if that had been the case, you would have greatly disappointed me. On the other hand, I was not disappointed to learn that drones would not be armed. We must not overbid the arms race. I have already positioned myself on the issue and I believe that the decision that will be taken is a good thing. We have made the choice of dual capabilities, which can really support our citizens in the event of a crisis, and that is also a very good thing. We know that these crises will be increasing as a result of climate change, not to mention cybersecurity crises. I would like to reiterate here that Defence must be the last resort to deal with the consequences of a crisis. We must therefore, in parallel, continue to invest in diplomacy and development cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u20	As a parliamentarian, we must listen to everyone, but we must also keep our critical mind. This is the exercise we have just done this morning. It was interesting, but it was only one step. As in the Netflix series, there will be a sequel and we will talk about it soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u21	Madam Minister, in the Netflix series of our colleague Flahaut, I hope we will not have to wait until the tenth season for you to introduce the law of military programming and strategic vigilance! We expect you, of course, earlier, you understand that. I am amazed to hear the Communists in this Parliament tell us that there are no threats from Russia and China! Minister, there's something in your speech that bothers me a little bit. It is on the basis of the analysis of threats, particularly those affecting the borders of NATO's partners and allies, that we will determine what our roadmap and commitment to investment and staff training will be. You were talking about cyber defence a moment ago: it is on the basis of the threats to us and our NATO allies that we will determine our security and defence policy. This is necessarily closely linked. On the other hand, I know that you are really trying to answer the questions provided, many and many of the parliamentarians. Thank you for providing the pension guarantees in view of the wage increase. On the other hand, you did not reply to me about what you presented as investments of EUR 10.2 billion. Do we agree that this is not about EUR 10.2 billion in equipment investment?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u22	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u23	I'm telling you. It's not 10.2 billion investments. No, it's not 10.2 billion in equipment investment. But you will confirm it, as you say, a little later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u24	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. You noted that the only thing that would interest me is whether there are ten F-35s added. Mr Defossé said I would be disappointed if they were in it. By the way, there were 12 asked for, not 10 asked for. Madam Minister, I hope you know that our group's approach has been broader over the last year and a half than just focusing on the F-35s. We also wanted to work with you when it comes to the personnel and the employability of the army. We have also intervened on several occasions on the various capacities of......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is rather short to say that the only thing the N-VA wants to check is whether there will be F-35s. I think that's kind of lame. Can I infer from your reply, by the way, that no F-35 will be added? You make this remark, but it is a specific question. Isn't there a single F-35? The strategic committee advocated strengthening the F-35 platform. Does this mean that you are not following the proposal of the Strategic Committee? That's what I'm distracting from your attack at my address. If I'm wrong about that, I'd like to hear it. Madam Minister, if there is no updated strategic vision yet, if there is no update of the military programme law, then it is difficult to present it here. I understand. You can't submit that until that's done. I understand, of course, that you are not yet in a position to deliver it. However, there is the STAR plan. There must be more than just the press text on your website. You went to the press with that STAR plan, but there is no doubt that there is much more to be said about it. You have already said a number of things, but can you please give us the full version of that document? Then I have a question about the timing of the further discussion. Mr Ducarme also hopes to be able to start it soon. You have said that you hope to be able to cut a number of buttons in the government's lap in a few weeks' time. You are dependent on the government's approval, but do I hear you very well that you hope to be able to come to this Parliament with your updated strategic vision before the Easter recess? I understand that you cannot say that with certainty, but is it your firm will to come to this House before Easter? By the way, I'd like to ask you to leave room. If I am not mistaken, in the previous legislature, we first discussed the strategic vision at the time, which is now in the process of being updated, and it was only after that that the military programme law came into force. This means that we will be able to discuss the full document and then the military programme law, after which we will be able to further concreteise the investments in the legislative material that you intend to submit as a draft to this House. Madam Minister, Mr De Vriendt has also argued in the past that it should not be a game of majority opposition in the defence sector. We need to be able to go beyond that and not just work across opposition. They are important investments, so we also need to be able to work across legislative boundaries. I would like to stress once again that N-VA is certainly open to this. Involve us in this, involve the opposition in your work, even though it is still preliminary work. Involve us, either in this committee or, if necessary, outside. You have a good heart for the DOD. Know that we are your ally in this respect. I'll reach out to you and hope I can get that corona-safe back.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u25	Mr President, I will respond quickly. First of all, I didn't attack you. It was a little bit of humor on the F-35. Of course there is much more; but there is obviously also a path to follow. Therefore, when we arrive with the budget path, after all the work and the analysis of threats and needs – the work carried out by all the teams – at one point, we have to work on a budget. We are now refining this document. So, yes, this document exists. But it must first be presented to the Council of Ministers. And then, with the greatest pleasure, we will come here to discuss it. Don't worry about it. I would point out that I did not present it to the press. This document - I think it was an old version - clearly found itself in the hands of one or the other journalist. But I never gave this document to the press. For the deadline, yes, I have the firm will to move forward, as in all cases. You see it's not going so bad. I also hope to hold the same tempo for Vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u26	So you're also hoping to come here against the Easter recess?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u27	As soon as possible (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u28	Mr President, it is very kind of you to give me the floor. I did not intervene in the first round, because my colleague André Flahaut had spoken. At the end of his reply, which was very brief, I confess to being overwhelmed by the Communists' speech. When we look at their history and look at communist states around the world, they are the ones who invest the most in Defense and offensive weapons and threaten peace. The military budgets of the USSR, the People's Republic of China, North Korea and Cuba were drawn up by communists for offensive purposes, including against their people, since they purchased weapons, missiles, aircraft and tanks, while the lines were lying in front of the shops so that the peoples oppressed by these regimes could find food for themselves. Secondly, they demonstrate, once again, their total inconsistency, since they feel it is necessary that we leave NATO on the grounds that it would be the instrument of the Americans and that it would impose its conditions on us, who are the champions of diplomacy. I have not heard the Communists propose an alternative which would be, for example, a Europe of defence. If it is this path that they intend to follow, investment in military equipment is also essential. And then, if we want to make Belgium a totally unaligned country that withdraws from the international context, we must not make our fellow citizens believe that, given our size, we could play a diplomatic role by being completely isolated. On the contrary: we will be crushed by history and geopolitical tensions and we will no longer exist on the map.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u29	Minister, Defence has just announced that it plans to turn the Queen Astrid Military Hospital into a hospital hub in 2030 to ensure that the hospital continues to perform its duties on the one hand, and that on the other hand, it is also useful to civil society. This project requires cooperation with all clinical networks. It includes an academic component aimed at training civilian hospitals, as well as an important economic side aimed at building public-private partnerships with companies in the field of research. Studies will be carried out to identify practical modalities. In particular, the size of the staff required, funding and partnerships. The results of the studies are expected by the beginning of next year. Currently, the hospital employs 788 employees, including 509 military personnel. It is envisaged that the Medical Component will hire 200 people by 2030. Minister, have the studies already been launched? If not, when will they be? What will happen to obsolete infrastructure? Are you considering selling more parts of the buildings? What will happen to the part of the building currently reserved for entrance examinations? Were initial discussions initiated with potential partners such as universities and hospitals?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u30	Dear colleague, the medical hub will be a flagship project in the defence posture within society with a strengthening of its role in assisting the nation. Studies to initiate the project will be launched through a consultancy mission based on a concept developed in collaboration with the General Staff and our partners. The process of completion of the contract is under way. The objective is to complete the auction in March of this year. The consultancy mission is a preliminary study in order to gather the necessary knowledge regarding the financing of the project, the best procurement procedure, the possibilities in master planning with the focus on maintaining the operationality of the military hospital and opportunities for partnerships. The study should provide an overview of third-party funding opportunities and licensing obligations that the medical hub will have to meet. This preliminary study will provide the direction for the future, taking into account the maximum guarantee of the operationality of the medical hub, while ensuring that our fellow citizens are provided with a crisis hospital in case of need. Based on the studies and operating models selected, the infrastructure needs will be determined. The military hospital is not a general hospital, but a capacity with, on the one hand, a number of specific military services (the medical selection of recruits) and, on the other hand, a number of other services accessible to civilian patients such as the burn centre or the hyperbaric chamber. Discussions are currently under way with various potential partners in order to identify potential opportunities depending on the different niches envisaged and the interest of hospital partners in the care activities of hospital, locoregional and supra-regional clinical networks. This includes general and university hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u31	Madam Minister, I think that this is a very interesting and ambitious project with a lot of originality, not least with regard to the dual function that this hospital will take up by 2030, but also in view of the possibilities that it also offers from a scientific point of view and the progress that we could hope for at that level. So we look forward to even more details when they become known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u32	Madam Secretary, at the moment we have to deal with a severe outbreak of the omikron variant, although fortunately we have seen a declining curve over the last few days. At the same time, we expect a high level of preparedness from our military, including for the crisis in Ukraine and the fight against the corona crisis. So I have a few questions. First of all, how many soldiers cannot be deployed at the moment because of corona? Can you give us an update on this? Secondly, is there a higher failure in specific units or components? How does this contribute to the availability of the various capacities? Thirdly, has the DOD imposed stricter requirements because of the higher infectiousness of the omikron variant, for example for sailing ships, where problems have been encountered in the past? Fourthly, what progress has the DOD made with the vaccination of the personnel with regard to booster shots? Is the booster shot mandatory or not for departure for an assignment? Finally, does the collapse of corona also affect the ability of Defense to mobilise units for deployment in the Ukraine crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the military personnel deployed in the fight against coronavirus carry out mainly the following tasks: the implementation of a vaccination centre within the military hospital, the reception of seriously burned patients under the BABI plan at the military hospital, the personnel support to the vaccination centres in Charleroi, Soignies, Ath and Tournai, the provision of infrastructure for the vaccination centres in Brasschaat and Grobbendonk, logistical support to the Chwapi hospital, logistical and medical support in several nursing and nursing homes, and personnel support for the Walloon Region and the Public Health FPS vaccination task force. Defence has a numerically limited number of doctors and nurses. Nevertheless, it has about 70 paramedics and 30 stretchers who are also very well trained and who can be engaged in different situations for assistance to the nation. Military involvement in nursing homes depends on the nature of the request to the authorities, the need identified as a result of the request and assessment made by the National Crisis Centre or the Public Health FPS. Each request for support in the areas of logistics, disinfection or equipment implementation must be submitted to the Crisis Centre through a request validated by the provincial governor. The Crisis Centre shall assess, analyse and validate requests, as appropriate, before forwarding them to the services provided for the delivery of support. Defence is only one support provider among others. On 2 February 2022, 23 soldiers were deployed in residential care centres and hospitals. This was the case in the residential care centres Duneroze in Wenduine, Zonnesteen in Zemst, De Stek in Sijsele, Renaissance in Brussels, Home Saint-Joseph in Hoei and Résidence des Longs Thiers in Hoei and in the hospitals Centre Hospitalier de Wallonie picarde in Tournai and the University Hospital Antwerpen. There is currently one application pending. Since November 2021, Defence has provided support in the two newly cited hospitals and in 15 residential care centres. In addition to the already mentioned six residential care centres, Defence was also used in the residential care centres Sint-Vincentius in Zulte, Sint-Anna in Ichtegem, Herdershove in Bruges, Woonhuis De Ark in Antwerp, Scheldevelde in De Pinte, Hurnival in Lievegem, Au Fil de Hoeegne in Pépinster, Comme chez soi in Ecaussinnes and the Medical-Pedagogical Institute Dominic Savio in Hooglede. The impact of the omikron variant on the number of applications and on the amount of aid delivered has been limited. The pandemic affects Defence just as it affects Belgian society as a whole. As a result, Defence also noted an increase in the number of positive cases and high-risk contacts. During the week of January 24-30, 2022, some 461 positive covid cases were recorded within the department. In addition, 388 individuals have been identified as high-risk contacts, most of which originate in the private sphere of the military. During registration, no link is recorded with the specific component in which the military is active. However, there is so far no impact on Defence operations or on ongoing operations. The rules adopted by Sciensano to prevent the spread of the omikron variant are applied within Defence. It is not allowed to shorten the isolation period, even for operations. Additional rules apply to maritime assignments. For example, Defense has decided to introduce a 14-day relative home quarantine, together with an additional COVID-19 test, an honorary certificate and a physical screening of all employees to be boarded. More than 95% of the military have been fully vaccinated. On 2 February 7,494 or 33,6% of the military had already registered their booster shot. Full vaccination with booster dose is mandatory to participate in surgery. All personnel who participated in an operation after 14 January have already received a booster dose. The Medical Component has distributed the necessary vaccines so that all the staff already deployed have received a booster dose before 1 February. At my request, the necessary steps have been taken to ensure Defence's current and future operational commitments.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u34	Thank you very much, Minister, for this very detailed answer given what has been done. It is notable that this issue has been taken seriously. From your answer, I take it that everything worked well. This is obviously a lesson that we must learn, but not in haste. I hope that a variant X, Y or Z will not have to force us again to look at pandemic situations that we no longer want to live. It is heartening to note that protocols have been developed and that this operation has been successful.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answer. Earlier, we were talking about helping the nation. We're right in there! I would like to take this opportunity to thank and congratulate Defence personnel who once again volunteer to help the nation when it needs it most. I can also see from your remarks that, after two years of crisis, Defence is well-rounded and that the system of demand for intervention and support is working. That's quite reassuring. As far as the military itself is concerned, we know that it is very difficult to manage absences, quarantines, isolations. I hear everything's under control on the defense side. We are in a regressive phase of the virus, and I hope that will be confirmed. Unlike my colleague, I think we are only half the Greek alphabet with Omicron. So I have some fears for the future. In any case, I hope that soon all Defence and society can be operational. On the other hand, minister, how do you know who is or is not vaccinated, given medical confidentiality? We have already addressed the issue, but I have forgotten the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u36	They register on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u37	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. There is indeed a great deal of demand from the Defense Department, even in this corona crisis. From this point on, I would like to express my gratitude to all the military who have contributed to this. Thank you for the degree of detail in your numbers regarding the number of vaccinees and the number of people who received a booster. I would also like to thank you for your explanation of the exact nature of the rules and of the obligation at the time of leaving for an operation. I can imagine that this is quite a job at the moment when people know that soldiers must be made available for a possible deployment. Let us hope that this will not be necessary. I assume that these soldiers will have to comply with that obligation before they are deployed. For example, if the commitment to deploy a ship is to be taken into account, the quarantine obligations must be taken into account. That's quite a job for the Defense Department, for which I'm grateful and congratulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u38	Madam Secretary, I always ask questions about investment files that I see passing through the media. A few weeks ago, nine heavy-duty trigger combinations were purchased. First, did the order take place as part of the previous larger order at DAF? Secondly, why were nine additional combinations ordered? Why exactly were nine combinations ordered?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u39	Mr Pillen, for the acquisition of a protected evacuation capacity for inter-armed motorized capacity, the market was questioned separately, so it is not an addition to the light and heavy-duty protected trucks programme. There are three protected vehicles with semi-trailers per battalion, i.e. nine trucks in total. This protected capacity will allow the safety of personnel to be increased in the execution of evacuation orders.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u40	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u41	Mr President, Minister, this question dates back to 19 January. In the meantime, I could have asked three or four similar questions about the attitude of the Malian regime towards countries that carry out military operations on Malian territory. This is about the incident in which France was accused by the Malian government of violating its airspace, with an A400M flying towards Gao. It is a bit strange to speak of a violation of airspace if one allows operations to take place in his country. In addition, this was charged by means of a press release, a very inflammatory press release. Have such accusations already been made in respect of Belgian aircraft? We, too, have A400Ms and we also supply our troops. Were the procedures adapted with regard to our flights or with regard to flights from partner countries, with our troops and our equipment?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u42	Madam Minister, as Mr Pillen says, the situation has changed for a month and is changing almost every day. A few weeks ago, Mali accused France of violating its airspace, aiming at an A400M flight to Gao. The Malian government also denounced a control of its airspace by France and argued that it had to apply for permission to fly its own aircraft. These two charges were challenged by the French government. Similarly, a German A400M with nearly 80 soldiers on board was denied access to Malian airspace while it was due to travel to Niger. The flight had been hijacked, at the time, to Gran Canaria, pending clarification of the situation. Meanwhile, two weeks ago, tensions escalated between Mali and Denmark, which was ordered to withdraw its special forces from Malian territory, accused of having deployed without the consent of the putsch junta. Denmark and Norway have decided to withdraw. The Netherlands is asking itself questions. Tensions are combined with the expulsion of the French ambassador to Mali. Minister, has Belgian Defence ever had any such problems? How is our access to airspace, but also to Malian territory, defined? Are these agreements concluded between countries or between Mali and the organizations in charge of the missions (UN, EU, etc.)( )? Does Mali today have effective control of its airspace? These events raise the obvious question of the Malian government's support for the international, or in any case Western, presence on its territory. How do you feel about this? What is the impact on the ongoing missions in which Belgium participates?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u43	Mr President, the Malian government has never made complaints against Belgian military aircraft. There are also no recent changes to the procedures concerning Belgian flights or flights from partner countries. Access to Malian territory and airspace is governed by international agreements concluded under the auspices of the United Nations, on the one hand, and the European Union, on the other. Depending on the mission in which the Belgian military participate, the detachments are sent to Mali, under the cover of one of these two agreements. Belgium has not concluded a bilateral agreement with Mali. Defence is in no way involved in the control of Malian airspace.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u44	Madam Secretary, thank you for the technical explanation in your reply. I referred to it in the introduction to my question: we must see the incident with the French A400M as part of a long series. There were the expulsion of the Danish special forces, the incident with the Germans, the compulsory departure of the French ambassador and the last minute cancellation of the political summit of EU Foreign Ministers and a number of Sahel countries. It is a long sequence which clearly shows a very deteriorating relationship between, on the one hand, Europe and, in particular, the countries active in the Sahel and, on the other hand, the governments of the Sahel countries, in particular those of Mali. We need to look at all the elements and take them into account in the analysis that is currently under way. I read your statements about this in La Libre Belgique yesterday. Everything must be seen together. They're not failures diverse, they're not single facts. It must be taken into account in the final conclusion that is coming. I am still a little hungry, because I would like to have a parliamentary debate on this, Mr President. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u45	Very well, I didn't know that would happen next week. So we must all take this into account in next week's debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u46	Before I give the floor to Mr Defossé, I would like to say a few words about the debate we are discussing. Last week it was said that it would be interesting to organise that debate more quickly. This has been included with the members of the government concerned and it has been agreed to hold a joint committee meeting next Tuesday afternoon where the three ministers will be present.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u47	Mr President, I am pleased to hear that this extremely important debate will take place. I would like to take this opportunity to ask that my forthcoming question No 55025111C on Takuba be withdrawn, because it is unnecessary to ask it if we have this debate next week. Thank you for your answer, Minister. The least we can say is that the motivation of the Malian government to see the Western presence strengthened, particularly under French command, does not seem obvious. Of course, every state – even under the leadership of a putschist government – is sovereign in accepting or not accepting foreign troops on its territory. By way of deduction, if not, it would be an occupation of a completely different dimension. Whatever the European countries involved in Mali decide today, it will in any case be necessary first and foremost to clarify the will and intentions of the Malian government. As far as I am concerned, I think that the presence of the Wagner Group on the spot is already a serious answer for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u48	Madam Secretary, veterans took part in corona demonstrations in the Netherlands. They wore official military uniforms with camouflage print, specific to the Dutch armed forces. That's problematic. In Belgium, in the aftermath of the Kings affair, we saw a retired soldier walking around in his uniform. In our country, too, a man was convicted of wearing a uniform and impersonating himself as a member of the armed forces. Those facts in the Netherlands and Belgium raise questions about uniforms. What are the rules on wearing the military uniform in Belgium? How many pensioners have a certificate of capacity that allows them to wear a uniform?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u49	Mr Pillen, the Royal Decree of 4 February 1998 on the uniform of the military applies. On this basis, the plates, clothing and equipment are worn by military personnel, as well as the conditions and manner in which they are to be worn. In addition, an internal regulation clarifies the framework for wearing the military uniform. Finally, there is a general order concerning the wearing of uniforms by soldiers who are no longer in actual service, including pensioners. The Directive repeals the provisions relating to the certificate of qualification. The holders of that certificate shall be allowed to wear the uniform. The unlawful wearing of a uniform in public may be punishable by a fine provided for in Article 228 of the Criminal Code. Participation in prohibited events in a uniform manner may give rise to criminal prosecution. Since 13 March 2014, Defence has issued 7.429 certificates of capacity to former military personnel. The Notarial Service of Defence grants the certificate in the form of a ticket at the request of the military who retires. The card is only intended to provide proof of the status of former military and thus justify the wearing of military clothing. Possession of the ticket doesn't open up any other rights. Defense has been aware of four incidents in the last five years. First, two civilians moderated the military office in which they had appeared on various air shows in flight overalls and jacquet with military degrees between 2015 and 2018. Secondly, someone posted a photograph of himself in military uniform on social media as a statement of support for Mr Conings. She turned out not to be a military man, but to be the partner of a military man in active service. Defense has reported to the police department responsible for the investigation of crimes in military circles. He made a police report. A third incident concerns a case of unlawful uniforms during the forbidden La Boum 2 festival by a retired military officer. In response to my question, the Ministry of Defence has lodged a complaint with the Brussels Public Prosecutor. On 7 January last, the public prosecutor was informed of the state of play. The Department of Defense is still waiting for an answer. A final incident concerns a case of suspected identity fraud and office assumption by a man who falsely pretends to be a captain and would have attended several public and private events in military uniform. This case has been investigated by the Nijvel District Court since the end of October 2021. There are currently no plans to adapt the existing regulatory framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u50	Madam Secretary, I remember two positive things from your answer. Firstly, there were four incidents in five years, with three out of four being strongly mediated. Follow-up will be given. It's just the last thing I've ever known. That number of facts is therefore relatively good. Secondly, 7.429 certificates of capacity were issued. That's 7.429 ex-military, retired people asking to keep wearing their uniforms. That shows a certain pride. I also see this in my surroundings, for example on Te Deums and on commemorations in West Flanders. This of course has to do with the various sites of the First World War. Those soldiers are there with the appropriate pride in uniform. That's a strong signal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u51	Minister, I will consolidate my questions that follow one of your answers to a written question. Several months ago I was concerned about the presence on Belgian territory – particularly in the public administration, including the federal and military – of cameras produced by two Chinese world leaders – Dahua and Hikvision – which are clearly linked to the ongoing genocidal process against the Uighur minority in Xinjiang, China. These companies sell – and boast about it in their internet ads – facial recognition tools and, therefore, racial segregation. These marks have been banned in several countries such as Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States, in any case in the defence services. The European Parliament has also banned these thermal cameras in its Brussels buildings. Hence my questions, Minister, because it is important to have full transparency about our use of these surveillance cameras. Should public procurement be approved by the Chamber's Military Procurement Commission with respect to the use of these cameras within the Defence? I am also concerned about their presence around military sites that could be considered sensitive. I'm thinking about ministerial offices or Kleine-Brogel Air Force Base. I wanted to make sure that these sites were not monitored by Hikvision or Dahua cameras. By your colleague Minister Verlinden, I have learned that Doel and Tihange's Category 1 nuclear sites are not. We also know that one of the dangers is the use of software. Do 30 cameras purchased use Hikvision's or Dahua's? Then, through the risk analysis provided by the SMS, how can Defence ensure that there is no data leak? This is problematic, because we know from the State Security and other intelligence and civil security services that there is indeed a risk – and I say "risk", because we have not received any evidence of espionage – of espionage and, in any case, of leaking data to the Chinese authority. We also need to know whether any Belgian Defence military partners, such as the US Army, have shared concerns that these equipment will be used in our Defence. Thank you in advance for your helpful clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u52	Gentlemen, the Defence has ten Hikvision cameras and about twenty Dahua cameras. The manufacturer accompanies these cameras with specific software to be installed on the computer to control the surveillance system. As this software is not used by Defence, there is no risk of data transmission without the knowledge of the user. European public procurement legislation does not systematically exclude products from certain manufacturers. A total ban is therefore not possible at present. An assessment on a case-by-case basis, depending on the location and sensitivity of the site, is already being carried out on the basis of the provisions of the Law on Public Procurement in the fields of security and defence. This type of equipment is not considered military equipment. Therefore, the procurement files are not requested to be submitted to the Military Purchases Commission. In June 2021, classified guidelines were issued to users of surveillance devices from certain producers deemed to be at risk to Defence. The SGRS, which has not received any specific warnings on this subject from its NATO partners, is monitoring developments in this area and will adjust the guidelines, if necessary, according to the analysis. These cameras, which are not installed to monitor sensitive sites, operate in a local network that is not accessible from the outside. An interview is always held in the presence of a member of the Defence. Mr Metsu, Mr Pillen, I have just answered some of your questions. The surveillance is ensured by cameras of the brands Bosch, Axis, Flir and Wisenet. Defense has no contracts with the companies Hikvision and Dahua. The internet of things is taken into account effectively and actively. Based on an analysis of the risks of the devices that can be used, specific guidelines are drawn up to avoid leaking sensitive data.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u53	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It is a new and important element to know that there are indeed classified guidelines on the use of these cameras in Defence. I have been concerned about the presence of these cameras in almost all public administrations and I find it quite obvious to see the diversity and lack of consistency in the use of these cameras to monitor sensitive sites. In your response, you do not clearly indicate which sites are monitored by Hikvision or Dahua and which sites are not. Transparency could be achieved here. Indeed, when one sees that the European Parliament has excluded these cameras from its buildings and corridors, one might imagine that the Defence will do the same on Belgian territory. I hope, Madam Minister, that we will soon be able to have this transparency on the premises, barracks and sites that are being monitored by these Hikvision or Dahua cameras.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u54	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I thought you said there were no contracts with Hikvision and Dahua. That's what I understood. I understand that there are clear guidelines and that the ADIV is working on them. Belgian Defence scores good points in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u55	Madam Secretary, you gave a clear answer. I have also asked the question to all the other ministers. Rather, they revolved around the pot. The Minister of Justice replied to me last week that he is currently preparing an inventory, because the Justice Department simply does not know what brands the cameras are and what networks they are connected to. The involvement of the ADIV is very important in this respect. That's what you mentioned, too. I have also heard you say that there are about 30 cameras, but that no critical infrastructure is being monitored by those cameras and that there is no Dahua or Hikvision in the Defense Department. That is new and very encouraging information for me, because I expected otherwise.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u56	Mr President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u57	Mr President, since the Committee of 15 December 2021, the cyber attacks on 17 December have prevented further developments in the field of HRM@Defence. The access HRM@Defence was immediately interrupted, as there was an impact on the production development and testing environment. Consequently, it was not possible to change data in the application. The server was restarted on January 12, but only for the administrators. Since 17 January, the performance can be re-established by anyone. In some cases regularisations will take place, which will be settled at the next payouts. It was chosen to make the production environment operational first. Since 24 January, the test environments have also been made available again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u58	Thanks, that was obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u59	Mr President, Minister, you also spoke about this in the aftermath of the Conings affair. Last time you said that they were working on a charter. So my first question has already been answered. Those activities are indeed in progress. In what way is that established? Who's getting involved? Having a framework of values and standards is very important, but it must of course also be borne by the organisation and by the different generations within that organisation. In what way is that established? Who's getting involved? How is it further disseminated and communicated?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u60	Minister, during the debate on the policy note, you responded that work would be done to update the Defence's standards and values framework to combat abuse and extremism. I'm glad, of course. In parallel to this work, there is now an urgent need to work on a proactive plan of action to enable a sound management of diversity, certainly when there is an objective to further open up Defence to all. We know that many problems arise for people of different origins and denominations who try to find their place and to be respected in their ideas and practices, and that is also the case for women, who are still too often subjected to sexism on a daily basis. Minister, how many complaints are filed annually with the Defence for racial, religious, gender or sexual orientation discrimination? What is the follow-up to these complaints? Have any cases of victims who do not dare to file a complaint happened to you? How will you encourage victims to file complaints and protect them from possible pressures and reprisals? Is there a concrete and detailed plan to integrate diversity within our troops? What will be the content of it and what is the preferred approach? Finally, have partners such as Unia or others been solicited? Have any concrete actions been put in place to allow everyone to be welcomed? For example, has a diversity manager been appointed? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u61	Mr President, Defence is currently updating its values and standards framework. This exercise should result in a document explaining the new value framework. A proposal was developed through the organisation of workshops with representatives from all parts of the Defense Department. The trade unions will also participate in this draft. New core values were proposed that apply to all Defence, military and civilian personnel. For each unit additional values may then be defined, which are consistent with the core values. The new values and standards framework within Defence will be communicated and distributed from the second trimester of 2022, with posters, flyers, infographics on the intranet and brochures. The values and standards framework will also form part of basic education and training. I regularly ask about the progress of this process, given its importance in a rapidly evolving society. In 2021, the Complaints Management Service registered seven complaints of racism – including one anonymous – and seven complaints of sexism. All these complaints, including anonymity, were dealt with and a response was provided to the persons concerned within 30 days. The necessary actions have been taken to ensure that problems are identified and dealt with in the best possible way, in collaboration with DGHR's line of command, ACOS IS and, if applicable, DJMM's judicial services. The Defence has now put in place the possibility of filing an anonymous complaint to prevent and prevent fear of reprisals for complainants. This possibility has been communicated to all Defence personnel. A regularly re-evaluated diversity policy was developed in 2003 and has been in effect since then. It aims to create a culture of positive, more inclusive organisation with a view to attracting and retaining a richer potential of collaborators. It also aims to stimulate constructive collaboration that will enable any staff member, regardless of their visible or less visible specificities, to develop, express themselves and contribute fully to the operational character, as well as to the proper functioning of Defence. Diversity policy is explained during the basic training of all military personnel. Two comic books based on values and diversity were also produced and distributed. In addition, respecting others has been a generic behavioural competency since 2020 on which each member is assessed by statute. In conjunction with the DGHR teams, Unia and the Institute for Gender Equality are regularly consulted to discuss certain topics related to this diversity policy. Within Defence, the Inspector General is responsible for diversity policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u62	Madam Secretary, thank you for that state of affairs. Thoughts are free, but the approach of colleagues and third parties within a professional organisation is not. So it is good that we are working on this. I am therefore very interested in the result. You refer to the rapidly evolving society, in which today there is a different view of how to deal with racism and sexism. Recent events in the Netherlands indicate this, not only in showbiz, because yesterday a Dutch Member of Parliament also quit and there are consequences in the football world as well. A similar situation is currently occurring in our country, particularly within universities. Professor Adriaenssens gave a very interesting insight into how this is handled within universities and university culture. This analysis is very similar to that of an organisation such as Defence, where sometimes, despite all good intentions, some things are covered. We feel that society is changing, and we need the defense to go along with it. Defence must be armed with a good framework of values and standards and with good agreements in case things go wrong somewhere. It is very close to my heart and that is why I will come back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u63	Minister, thank you for your answers. As I have said every time I have asked you about the subject, diversity management is essential for Defence and for the well-being of staff, of course. You agree with me, I think. I think it would be important to redefine values well, as you are doing right now, but redefining values is not enough. It is not because values are decreed that they are applied. That is why it is important to work on this diversity management plan. You tell me that it has existed since 2003 and is regularly updated with the help of Unia and the Institute for Equality between Women and Men. Nevertheless, it is true that we sometimes have feedback on what is happening in the Defence. Many of us have received an end-of-studies brief on the issue of diversity and what we can read about it is quite frightening. This plan needs to be further developed in order to effectively resolve these problems because we will not be able to have the Defence we want, that is, a plural Defence, if we do not resolve this issue. I am also learning that you have put in place the possibility of filing an anonymous complaint. It's very important and it's very good. It really goes in the right way. We will, of course, continue to follow up on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u64	I do not think there is any doubt about my willingness to move forward in this area. To supplement my response, the Inspector General met with the author of the report in question, which makes it possible to move things forward and take into account what has been said.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u65	I obviously had no doubt about your willingness to work on this subject, especially with the events we experienced last year. It was already obvious before, it is all the more so now. I am pleased to learn that this person has been heard and I hope that the impact on Defence will be positive for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u66	Mr President, Minister, the United Kingdom has decided to give the military who took part in the evacuations from Afghanistan an operating medal. Is an award planned for this in our country too? If so, who will be eligible for the award? Are these just the people who were present at Kabul airport or also the people who were present on the ground in Pakistan and the people who have done an incredible amount of work in Belgium themselves, because we must not forget them?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u67	Mr Pillen, I have already asked the Chief of Defense to make a proposal to award the participants in Operation Red Kite an award. The precise modalities for the award are still for study and will be defined and communicated as soon as possible. They are the same for all staff, no matter where they participated in the operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u68	Thank you for your positive reply, Minister. That's good. An operation that had not taken place for decades had taken place in a very rapid manner. You are sending a clear signal. As you said, we must indeed ensure that all categories of military personnel, wherever they have worked, are eligible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u69	Madam Minister, the publication of the Nuclear Posture Review of the Biden administration is expected at the beginning of 2022. In that document, every American administration gives its position on the role of nuclear weapons. The Biden government is throwing it over another bow and is considering introducing the principle of no first use. We would also have asked for the views of the allies on this issue. Madam Minister, what is the government's position on the possible introduction of a no-first-use principle or the single objective principle in the United States' nuclear strategy? Would the government support such a move by the Biden Government? Were you questioned about that? What was your answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u70	Mr Verduyckt, the government's position is that Belgium continues to strive for a world without nuclear weapons. However, this is a long-term vision that can only be realised if all nuclear powers commit themselves to this direction through concrete irreversible and verifiable steps. The Biden administration has declared its intention to reduce the role of nuclear weapons in the security strategy, provided that the assurance that its own strategic detachment would remain factual and efficient and that the extended deterrence can be guaranteed for allies. Furthermore, the responsible use of the military instrument is of the utmost importance, while diplomacy should remain the first option. The switch to a sole purpose doctrine can be regarded as the next logical step in the process to reduce the number of situations that would require a nuclear intervention. The United States has requested a series of confidential consultations to determine their new Nuclear Posture Review. On that basis, they will decide on their position. In this context, I also refer to the recent declaration by the leaders of the five nuclear powers, China, Russia, Great Britain, the United States and France, that a nuclear war should never take place and that they should also strive for a world without nuclear weapons. Such a statement was also called for by Belgium during the US authorities' investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u71	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. In our view, a world without nuclear weapons is much safer. We believe in that, without naivety, but with determination. Every step in that direction, no matter how small, is a victory. I am also pleased that the government has taken that view. In your reply, you are talking about confidential conversations, so I can imagine that you cannot simply confess what has been said there. In view of the government's position, I assume that the principle of no first use was in any case supported in relation to the Biden administration. We will, of course, continue to follow this, as it is a country that has an important role to play in our present world with nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u72	Madam Secretary, you and I were annoyed when confidential information was leaked here in our committee behind closed doors during a cyber attack briefing. You have just also shown your annoyance about leaking details from the government of your STAR plan. Apparently, there's annoyance with the Chief of Staff, too. In a rather striking Flash Defense of 19 January, he said that there is an increasing number of military cases leaking confidential information and that he will not hesitate to take action. What was the reason for that communication? It refers to the cyber incident and the repatriation of former Afghan employees. Could you give me a little more explanation? Do you share the opinion of the CHOD that there is an increase in the number of incidents where sensitive information is leaked by defence personnel? Do you have any figures that can prove that? To what do you dedicate that? Is that because of sloppyness, reduced control from the hierarchy or an increasing power of our troops? Will the Defence Department take more concrete action in relation to information or the detection and sanctioning of leaks, or will this communication continue to be the case? In view of the increase in the number of social media and the increasing presence of Chinese producers, do you consider it necessary to further tighten the rules on the use of social media up to even a prohibition list or a list of safe-to-use applications and devices, as is already the case in other countries? Finally, as regards the direct communication of defence members with the press, what is the attitude of Defence towards journalists who systematically circumvent official press channels and share sensitive information? Do you think a new protocol is necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u73	Mr Buysrogge, as the Chief of Defense in the Flash points out, punctual violations have been identified in recent months with regard to the sharing of sensitive operational information on social media and in the press. It is a clear social evolution that social media reacts more quickly. There are no statistics on this at the Department of Defense. However, such reports may infringe various regulations of Defense, such as guidelines on communication during operations, freedom of expression for military personnel and the handling of social media by defence personnel. Failure to comply with such directives may also endanger the security of defence personnel, both in Belgium and abroad. That security is a permanent concern of myself and the Chief of Defense. The Flash message should be seen as an effort by the Defence Staff to remind the staff of those limitations in a rapidly evolving security context, which concerns everyone. I have no intention of developing new protocols and count on the sense of responsibility of all those involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u74	Defence is part of society and it is clear that our military also use the new social media, which are easy channels to disseminate information. Of course, there's a border somewhere. You'll find it yourself. We're on the same page in that respect. Confidential information must not be leaked. We must act against that, if we are to establish it. You don't have any figures. Nor have I heard you say that there has already been an action against a military man who has been found to have committed an offence. I assume that there has not yet been any action, unless you can correct that here. The security of our people, including our troops abroad, and the privacy of our military are paramount. If violations are detected in this area, there is a need to act hard against them, all the more so because security is paramount in everything that a military does and does not do.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u75	Mr Buysrogge, there is no proper statistic, but there are interventions by their hierarchical head(s). The least you can do is contact them when they post information that is not in phase. But I repeat that I do not have any statistics that I could communicate to you. Rather, it is a question of raising awareness about prevention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u76	I understand the Chief of Staff's motivation to distribute that communiqué. I also realise that it is not easy to provide statistics and figures on this. However, when a disciplinary measure has been taken in relation to a military, I assume that this can be mapped out and that figures can be provided on it. Perhaps it would be better to put a written question on this in order to obtain information.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u77	Madam Minister, since 17 January children under the age of 12 years can also go to the Military Hospital of Lower-Over-Heembeek for a vaccination syringe. This is part of the broad Brussels vaccination campaign for which Defence has been involved. Defense was asked to jump in at several critical moments in this pandemic. Does the Minister also consider it a task of the Defence Department to assist in the further completion of this fully voluntary vaccination? How many people have already responded to the proposal to have their child vaccinated in Neder-over-Heembeek? Meanwhile, 100,000 vaccines have been administered in the Military Hospital. Who currently bears the costs of purchasing, working hours and movements, for example for the prison system? How much are these costs estimated?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u78	Mr Buysrogge, the tasks of helping the nation remain one of the operational priorities. Where available, the Defence Department shall make its resources available to support the responsible services. Since 10 January 2022, the vaccination centre in the Military Hospital has been open daily from 15 to 17 hours for children. The registration is not done by the Defense Department, but by the Doctena platform. Until 2 February, 226 vaccines were administered to children. Costs are based on the following general principles. The staff is paid by the Ministry of Defence, with up to 42 people deployed in the vaccination centre, depending on the number of scheduled appointments. The material is delivered free of charge by the Brussels Region and therefore does not create additional costs for Defence. Any necessary transports for, for example, prisons and residential care centres are carried out by the company Medista. The cost of this is not to be borne by the Defense Department. The total cost of the support to the vaccination centres, in which the Military Hospital has the largest share, was 3,811,000 euros for 2021. This expenditure was covered by appropriations within the Defence budget in the context of aid to the nation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u79	Madam Minister, thank you for your very detailed answers, which provide us with a complete overview. We have always indicated that, in a crisis situation, Defence must be able to intervene where necessary. In the event of a health crisis and to the extent that capacity is available in the Defense Department, the deployment must be assured. Moreover, it has made excellent efforts in this area over the past two years, for which we sincerely thank you. The question is how long such a situation can last. Many volunteers have now been made available for vaccination campaigns all over the country, and we need to consider how to proceed. Should the DOD also be used for another vaccination campaign? It is now about the vaccination of the 5- to 11-year-olds who are given the opportunity to be vaccinated on a voluntary basis, without this being recommended. Children over 12 years of age are also given the opportunity to be vaccinated, without this being recommended, in order, for example, to leave on snow holidays. Is it really a core task of the Defense Department to carry out such assignments? Are we still in a crisis situation, or rather in a regular supportive situation? It may be interesting to have a thorough exchange of views on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u80	Minister, since this weekend, a third coup d'état has been taking place in West Africa with the fall of Burkina Faso, about two weeks ago. This is a worrying situation, with the particularity that it concerns a G5 Sahel member country that is under strong jihadist pressure. Belgium participated and was still expected to participate in the training of Burkina Faso military personnel and, another year ago, the Belgian Development Agency handed over equipment to the security forces (gendarmerie and police) for CFAF 1 billion: 80 motorcycles, about 10 patrol vehicles, armoured vehicles, ambulances, tactical equipment, protection and intervention, and troop transport trucks. What do we know today about the putschists? Is it possible that we trained them and provided them with equipment? What links does Belgian Defence have with the Burkinabé security forces and how could these links be useful in resolving the crisis and working towards a return to constitutional order? Will this coup change our plans for our presence in Burkina Faso? What about the security of our diplomats and the embassy there? Are there plans to strengthen their protection?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u81	Mr Defosse, you will receive an answer in Dutch and French because Mr Franken was supposed to ask a question on the subject. Mr. Franken's leaving me a little bit right now, you'll tell him. The Belgian military presence in Burkina Faso is currently limited to the embassy's security personnel. These people were not involved in the events that led to the coup. No incident was reported as far as they were concerned. There is no impact on the ongoing operations, but it was decided to suspend the operations planned for 2022. The Defence has not received any requests from the FPS Foreign Affairs to strengthen the DAS security team on site or to contribute to a possible evacuation of nationals. Since the information about the identity and past of the putschists is classified, I cannot communicate here on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u82	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer and for the drama at the end of the answer. I understand that, of course, but I cannot say much. The successive coups d'état in West Africa are obviously very worrying, especially since we have to face the jihadist threat. This must ask us about our action in the region. It is certain that the most effective way to guarantee the stability of a country is the peace of the belly and security. This is where we must act first. We must invest in economic development, social peace, sustainable prosperity and equal relations between our countries. For the rest, I can only hope that we did not participate in the formation and training of the troops who took power today in Burkina Faso. We will follow this closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u83	Madam Secretary, it is reported that this year the first pieces and vehicles of the Brasschaat Gunfiremuseum would be moved to the Bastogne Museum. In 2023 a part is brought to the museum in Ypres. According to several sources, this would be arranged by the outgoing deputy director of the War Heritage Institute (WHI), who is now assigned a new role as site manager in Ypres, where he will build the museum with exceptional and often unique vehicles from the Gunfiremuseum of Brasschaat. Madam Secretary, can you confirm the facts? Is it true that the move would even be speeded up? What are the plans for the Gunfiremuseum in Brasschaat? Since Brasschaat is the oldest military aircraft in this country and the site is the cradle of the Belgian artillery, wouldn't it have been better to keep those unique pieces where it belongs, namely in the Gunfiremuseum of Brasschaat? Finally, for the maintenance, repair and restoration of military equipment and the guided tour of various pilots on the site of the Gunfiremuseum of Brasschaat, many volunteers have contributed passionately over many years. Do you not think that these volunteers are being treated disrespectfully, as the relocation of the expanses is likely to become a reality?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u84	Mrs Samyn, the decision to leave the site in Brasschaat for the benefit of the site in Ypres was taken last year as part of the WHI's strategic plan and was motivated, on the one hand, by the poor condition of the available buildings in Brasschaat with a damaging impact on the collection pieces and, on the other hand, by the larger and more modern storage sheds that Ypres offers. The municipality of Brasschaat is aware of this and has indicated its intention to purchase the site in 2024 at the amount mentioned. Defense and the WHI agree. The site will be emptied by the end of 2023 with the exception of the documents that the WHI will lend to the municipality of Brasschaat. That institution will determine which documents from its collection it makes available. Brasschaat will no longer be part of the WHI sites in the future. The WHI continues to plan the site in Ypres in accordance with the lines of the institution's strategic plan. The draft paper, which also sets out a framework for external financing, is the first step in this direction. The WHI has always shown its willingness to cooperate with the municipality of Brasschaat, in case who wishes to develop a new museum concept on the site. On 10 January 2022 there were further consultations between the management of the WHI and the board of Brasschaat. Although a concept has been surveyed since 2016, the museum plans of the municipality still do not seem to be very clear. The double project Ypres-Kemmel will bring the story of the post-1945 conflicts to this day, with Kemmel focusing on the Cold War. In Ypres the whole period is exposed using the vehicle collection. The role of Defence in the past, present and future will be extensively addressed. Of course, the DOD is also a partner in this. The partnership to be developed will be part of the cooperation agreement between Defence and the WHI. In this context, Defence will actively contribute to the realisation of the open depots in Ypres, Beauvechain and Bastogne. The internal draft notes are the first steps in this direction and indicate the direction in which work is to be carried out. Some volunteers from the current Gunfiresite, especially those from the tanks, have already indicated that they will make the switch to Ypres. They are of course welcome there in the modern workshop and storage sheds. The artillery volunteers are generally a bit older and they do not want to make the switch.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic688x.u85	Madam Minister, we must not be under any illusions: the unique and valuable pieces, on which the volunteers of the Gunfiresite have worked for many years, will eventually move and Brasschaat will be left with crumbs. Again, Brasschaat is the cradle of the Belgian artillery. If Gunfire continues to exist as a fully-fledged museum, it seems logical that the unique pieces remain in Brasschaat. Moreover, the municipality of Brasschaat is not in line with the WHI. This was demonstrated by the most recent meeting of the city council. The communication is also quite rigid and even with regard to the volunteers there is aggressive language because of the WHI. It was also reported that the move would start early. You mentioned the poor condition of the site in Brasschaat, which I particularly regret, because that is really a modern site. Apparently it is also the question whether the site in Ypres is suitable for artillery. That's not certain yet.
