ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u1	The meeting was called to order at 10.07 a.m. and chaired by the Chair, Ms. Eliane Tillieux. The meeting was opened at 10.07 a.m. and chaired by the president, Eliane Tillieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u2	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u3	Ministers of the Federal Government present at the opening of the sitting: At the opening of the meeting, the Ministers of the Federal Government: Zakia Khattabi, Eva De Bleeker.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u4	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 February 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 February 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u5	Madam President, I am taking the floor at this bizarre hour. It seems to me that we have been called together in very exceptional circumstances. We can also question the convocation. Members of Parliament are supposed to have taken note of last week's report and we read in it that you closed the sitting with the following words: 'We must proceed to the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. Are you sure you don't mind? (No) The agenda has been adopted'. That's one thing. The second case concerns not the agenda, but the hour of the sitting. I read: 'The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Thursday 10 February 2022 at 2.15 p.m.' That's not now. However, I do not think that Members of Parliament were invited to a meeting at 10 a.m. I assume, therefore, that most of us will not be here until 2.15 p.m., in good faith, to attend the sitting, as decided by the Chamber last week. They will also be reassured that it will indeed be a sitting because they know Rule 11 of the Rules of Procedure. Pursuant to Rule 11 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, therefore, Thursday morning is now devoted exclusively to meetings of the political groups. A large part of my group is now eagerly waiting for me. Some have come here to take a closer look, because they noticed a lot of movement in the vicinity of the hemisphere and wonder what might be going on. They didn't receive an invitation, but they realized something was going on. So they came to see. That's not wrong. Thursday morning is devoted exclusively to meetings of the political groups, but exceptions can be allowed, for example by the Conference of Presidents. I attended it yesterday, and it didn't happen. The Chamber may also do so in accordance with Article 40, third paragraph. That says: 'The Chamber will preferably meet on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday afternoons' - the Rules of Procedure are very consistent - 'in plenary session, unless it is decided otherwise because of urgent work'. I repeat, for reasons of urgency, such as an attack, the death of the King, which we do not wish him to have, or the fall of the government. It is difficult to call a crisis in the government an exceptional circumstance. It could be when a minister is fired, that sort of thing. It is obvious that we will then be able to depart from the agenda if the majority of the Chamber makes that judgment. Strangely enough, we have received a note referring to Article 17. Rule 17 refers to the agenda, not the time of meeting. The distinction between the two is made everywhere, for example in Article 17: "The President shall submit to the Chamber for approval of the rules governing the proceedings of the plenary session, drawn up after obtaining the opinion of the Conference of Presidents, 2. the agenda thus submitted to the Chamber for approval." This is not about the start of the sitting, it is about the agenda. What we are experiencing here, Madam President, is an unprecedented precedent for a number of reasons. Firstly, the Conference of Presidents is working with a consensus rule. It is customary that you do not take a stand in the absence of consensus, contrary to what you did yesterday. The united opposition saw no reason to make the very important group meetings impossible by a very late change in the hour. You didn't agree to that. After the adoption of the non-consensus, you did not proceed to the order of the day, but you took a stand. You ignored the opposition's position, as did the article saying that the group meetings should take place on Thursday morning. That's very exceptional. In the years I have attended the Conference of Presidents, I have not yet seen it. The question is therefore what these exceptional circumstances are. The addition of items to the agenda, by the government itself, can hardly be called an exceptional circumstance. For example, when it comes to the important extension of the pandemic law, on 28 January, when the Royal Decree was issued, we knew that the extension would take place in today's sitting, as it will have to be ratified within 14 days. There's no other way. So that is not a novelty, we already knew that, that is absolutely nothing special. Nor is it an exceptional circumstance that the government wishes to add other elements to the agenda very late. In short, the MPs were not invited. You have ignored the determination of the non-consensus in the Conference of Presidents. Nowhere was we told what the exceptional circumstance was, although that may be the only reason to make the group meetings on Thursday morning impossible. Madam President, you have set a precedent. If that is tolerated, perhaps in the future you could convene a plenary session at 9:55 a.m. on a Thursday morning. You can suddenly tell us on the Chamber's website that there will be a plenary session in five minutes. Nothing's stopping you from doing that. You understand that's not a decent way to work. It is a gross contempt for the functioning of the Conference of Presidents, on which I am actually wondering why we are still taking part, if, after the conference has been held, you are taking the decision on your own initiative. I would like to point out, however, that colleagues from the opposition will confirm this, just like the honest colleagues from the majority, that we are absolutely open to reasonable proposals. We have already started here at 10 a.m., so we do not say no in principle. Our problem is that on Thursday afternoon we will no longer be able to change the order of the week with the group. As a result of your action last week, you have made the normal functioning of our group and other groups impossible. That's the point. If there had been a serious debate on this last week and if we could have seen the exceptional circumstance, we would have considered it fairly from the opposition, as has been the case several times in the past. However, that did not happen. We are faced with facts here, by an abuse of powers which I do not even think you have. We are therefore in a very special situation in this Chamber. I do not know what the statute for the meeting is, and I would like to know the exceptional circumstances which, as the word says, can only justify the convening of a meeting at 10 a.m. today, if they are exceptional. If there are no such exceptional circumstances, I would ask you to close the sitting and invite us back to normal work at 2.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u6	Madam President, I would like to make two points. First, indeed, today's convocation is not one. As everyone knows, the plenary meeting is held, according to the Rules of Procedure, every Thursday afternoon. Last Thursday, you convened it for this Thursday afternoon and the Conference of Presidents, which is responsible for the calendar, did not agree to convene this Thursday morning's plenary meeting. You may indeed put to the vote an additional plenary meeting this Thursday, but you can only do so this afternoon, according to the Rules of Procedure, at the time it was convened. I therefore believe that you are violating the Rules of the House, Madam President. You are the president of all the deputies, not just those of the majority. We're seeing a forcing here! The legal note we have received, requested by you in an emergency, speaks of examples in which these Regulations have not been accepted, but it is not in itself proof that it is regulatory. It is not because, in the past, there have already been non-regulatory summonses that this makes case law. When we read the whole regulation - Mr. De Roover quoted a lot of articles - this is not an invitation. Secondly, with regard to the convening of the Social Affairs Committee, which will take place just now to approve the report on the flexibility measures concerning the Omicron variant (point 2 456), I think there is no regulatory basis for this. When the meeting took place yesterday, there was consensus to hold this meeting next week. It is said that unless the Conference of Presidents decides otherwise, it may be convened, but yesterday it was not discussed at the Conference of Presidents. Four laws, namely Nos. 2,455, 2,376, 2,459 and possibly a fourth law from the Finance Committee, were discussed. Consequently, point 2 456 has not been addressed at all. We do not agree at all on the forcing of these flexibility measures, to which we strongly oppose. Moreover, the Omicron wave is passing and Pandora's box is being opened in relation to the flexibilisation of the labour market.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u7	Mr President, I do not wish to repeat the two previous speakers. I also do not want to repeat the discussion we had yesterday in the Conference of Presidents. I would like to add a few points to the justified comments that have already been made. We are in a very dangerous precedent today. You have a role to play as President of the Chamber of all Members of Parliament and not just of the majority. In the Conference, the discussion was about Article 17, which is indeed about the agenda of a meeting. No distinction is made between an agenda and an hour. That Article 17 is perfectly satisfied. Last week, with the agreement of the Conference, you established the next meeting at 2.15 p.m. today with an agenda to which, as is often the case, things will be added by consensus in the Conference. Unfortunately, it has happened on many occasions that there is no consensus in the Conference to add matters. At the beginning of the session or after Question Time, the majority members still press the will of the majority to change the agenda if there is no consensus in the Conference. That's not about an initial hour. When you asked at last week's Conference whether it would not be advisable to start the sitting at 10 a.m. this week, no majority party felt that was necessary, even though we knew perfectly well at that time, for example, that the discussion on the extension of the emergency would be added to the rather full agenda at that time. When the opposition did not agree yesterday in the Conference to suddenly change an agenda and turn the hour around, there is a cramp that systematically blocks the opposition. You said that a number of times at the Conference yesterday. In recent years, the opposition has clearly allowed regular work to be spread over several days or to start a hearing earlier. We're all willing to do that. We only ask for respect for our employees, respect for our agenda and respect for our way of working. I cannot speak for other groups, but our group attaches importance to group meetings. We think this is useful, we are preparing it and we are organizing it. We do not therefore agree with the sudden rejection of Thursday's sitting on a Wednesday afternoon. You're falling out of character, Madam President. I shall give one example, and I repeat it, because I gave that example yesterday in the Conference of Presidents. In the past, it was well in time for the plenary to begin at 10 a.m. the opposition had agreed, but it was decided at the Conference of Presidents on the day before the meeting that that meeting would probably not last long the day after, because the opposition said that the items on the agenda would not require much discussion. It was then proposed that the sitting should start at the traditional time, at 2.15 p.m. At the time, however, there was no consensus in the Conference of Presidents, because a nine-member group said it would not be possible, because it had already scheduled its group meeting at noon and it could not change it anymore. That happened to be a fraction of the majority. Now we are in a similar situation and all the opposition parties are not asking the same question, but now you are suddenly unable to do so and you find tricks, Madam President, to suddenly convene a meeting at the hour when group meetings are scheduled. I think that is a very dangerous precedent and not a decent way of working. Like Mr De Roover, I would like to know the exceptional circumstances of calling this strange meeting at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, various members of this House have already demonstrated widely that the convening of this morning is not in conformity. Indeed, it does not respect the consensus procedure in the Conference of Presidents. Yesterday, you spoke at the last minute to say that the members of this assembly would have to be called at 10 a.m. – I imagine that this had been organised and planned by the majority for several days – without having tried, Madam President, to organise our work properly, with respect for the majority and the opposition. You simply justified this new summons by saying that this was an emergency situation when everyone knows that the epidemic emergency had to be voted on before a certain period of time and that it has already expired. There was therefore no consensus in the Conference of Presidents to change the schedule of the plenary. I read and read the legal opinion that was sent to us this morning. Having spoken at the Conference of Presidents about the articulation of the various articles, I will not go back to this point today, especially since some of my colleagues have already done so. In any event, the Rules of Procedure do not allow you, in the situations put forward by the majority, to organise this plenary meeting at 10 a.m. Let us recall that at last week's plenary session we validated a call for this Thursday at 2:15 p.m. Of course, you could change the content of this afternoon's work. But it's something else to change, as you do, this schedule and this summons. Madam President, I think your decision is a purely political one. Purely political! You do behave like the president of the government, like the president of a majority, and you therefore forget your role as president of the assembly as a whole. Personally, I don't mind working on Thursday mornings. I think that is also the case with other colleagues. And I think I've been particularly constructive, repeatedly. Sessions have already been held at other times of the day. Additional meetings have already been held on other days of the week and, a fortiori, in an attempt to better organize the work in a manner that respects, in particular, the staff of the Chamber. And here I am not targeting Members, sorry colleagues, nor the Ministers, sorry ministers! As long as you do, it's better to work day than night when it can be organized in a regulatory, correct and intelligent way between each other. Madam President, your position, which all of a sudden is to invoke today, without being able to justify it, that we must work even though other meetings were planned this morning on the agenda, is also problematic because, in substance, the behaviour of the majority is of varying geometry. It does not bother ministers, when it suits them, to have the staff of the House work all night in committee, when that is not justified. It's happened a few times. And, in this case, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It does not bother ministers, the government, the majority of us to vote to demand urgency on texts that should, in fact, have been voted for a long time, sometimes because you cannot agree, but often also for European directives which, suddenly, the government realizes that the deadline is the next day, when it has been known for years. This variable geometry in the head of government and majority is problematic, Madam President. I invite you to be more attentive and consistent with respect for the staff of the House and to demand real respect from the government and the majority for the staff of the House, especially when situations are not justified. We've lived it repeatedly for a year. I repeat that this is particularly problematic in your leadership and in that of the majority. Colleagues have asked the question of the justifications you are going to give for the convening that is not in keeping with the decision of last week's assembly. It's at the heart of the discussion. I thank you for justifying this and I await this justification, which is not plausible except under a political coating. I look forward to that explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u9	Madam President, we still need to put things back in place. Last week, in the Conference of Presidents, the possibility of meeting at 10 a.m. and already last week, the opposition did not want this meeting to be held at 10 a.m. because there were only texts of validation of international conventions to vote on. We accepted the auguration except that we saw that the agenda had increased. The idea of scheduling the meeting at 10 a.m. referred to last week was confirmed and we, the majority, expressed the wish to start at 10 a.m. Since there was no consensus, you called it, Madam Chair. Now we're going to vote on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u10	As far as your attitude towards the staff of the House is concerned, it is incorrect to say that there is no permanent concern with it, whether it be MPs, translators or bailiffs. There is a continuing concern and that was one of the elements that was yesterday in the concerns of our Conference of Presidents. I have practiced the Conference of Presidents for some time, but I see that during this Parliament it is taking more and more time and it is becoming less and less consensus. This means that the functioning of the Conference of Presidents, like other things in the functioning of our Assembly, is to be seriously reviewed with the help of the parties of the majority and the opposition parties. We can also mention the justifications before the adoption of the resolutions or the duration of the arrests. Today, while Parliament is working a lot – majority and opposition are doing their job: the opposition is opposing and the majority is trying to pass the projects – the more we work, the more the media, sometimes present, say that we do nothing and that we do nothing. This is very unpleasant and very dangerous for our democracy. This regulation is probably to be revised because tradition is good, but when it borders on conservatism as it is today, it becomes a matter of concern because it blocks the progress of projects whose people are waiting for finalisation. We are here today because every Thursday at the end of the sitting, in the most complete brouhaha, the agenda for the next sitting is adopted. Everyone's gone, the president announces the agenda and no one's critical. Then let's proceed differently! Let us say that, systematically, Thursday's sessions open at 10:00 a.m. and, if necessary, they can be exceptionally open at 2:15 p.m. I can change the rules. This will effectively prevent us from backtracking. It is indeed easier to move a meeting later than to move it forward. Today, we still have to get out of it. I see that many members of the opposition, more than the majority, made the trip to be present this morning, like members of the government. Everybody's ready! We have been very flexible. So, are we all going to go back to our offices until 2:15 p.m. or are we going to decide purely and simply to move forward and discuss the items on the agenda in this meeting? As far as the points which have not yet been exhausted in committee are concerned, they will have to come back at some point to have the approval of the assembly to add them. But today, as the Conference of Presidents reveals its inability to decide by consensus, there is only one solution, the one that Mr Piedboeuf has put forward. The plenary must take a decision to confirm the decision you have taken. It is a decision that is not taken, as has been said, exclusively on urgent matters. This decision was also made out of respect for the staff who, sometimes, are obliged to wait here for the end of the repetition of multiple speeches and arguments that do not bring much results. Madam President, I therefore support Mr Piedboeuf's proposal. I simply ask that the Assembly decide, by a vote, on its order of business to confirm the decision you have taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u11	Madam President, I would like to return to the heart of the matter. What is at the heart of the matter? Certain weeks we find that our agenda is very heavy, too heavy to start at 2.15 p.m., because then we risk night work. Fortunately, there are more and more groups in this hemisphere who do not think that is a good thing and want to get rid of it. That's old politics. Why do we want to get rid of that? Because it undermines the efficiency and quality of political legislative work if one goes through to 2 or 3 a.m. A second reason why more and more groups want to get rid of this is that there are staff here, with people who also have a family life and who want normal working hours in this Parliament. I'm talking about the staff of the Chamber. Fortunately, there is a new political culture, in the sense that more and more groups say... You may laugh, Mr De Roover, because I know that you often have difficulty with this, but fortunately there is a new political culture in Parliament which advocates a normal way of working. What we find, however, is that the opposition, and it is strange that it is then the opposition, is united as a miracle in its opposition to it. This will then be established by the Conference of Presidents. That is possible, but as Mr Flahaut says, the Conference of Presidents, which is an internal political body, is increasingly being abused in a game of majority opposition and very logical decisions are being blocked there. I take note of that. If there is no consensus in the Conference of Presidents, it is up to the Chamber to decide and the President has the right to convene the Chamber to start that point of order. That's what's happening here. I therefore propose, following Mr Piedboeuf and Mr Flahaut, that we vote on this and vote on the more fundamental question of whether we will try to avoid night work in our political decision-making because of its quality and for the staff of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u12	Madam President, you have called the Chamber together, and that is your right. There is no article that forbids you to do so, not even Article 11. That's not in there. In addition, we regularly meet on Thursday morning. Therefore, read Article 17 (1) and (3) in conjunction with Article 40.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u13	(...) Article 11.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u14	Mr Loones, what is that special article? In any event, the President of the Chamber did so in accordance with Rule 40 and Rule 17 of the Rules of Procedure, since she asked for the opinion at the Conference of Presidents. There was no consensus in the Conference, but there was a large majority. If there is a debate on whether something is urgent or not on the basis of Rule 40 (2), and there is no consensus on it, there is only one solution: the Chamber must give its opinion on it. Moreover, there is also Rule 40 (3) which talks about morning meetings starting at 10 a.m. That is why the President invited us. Ladies and gentlemen, I regret that we were unable to reach a consensus within the Conference. That is what is happening more and more, and I have set this legislature. I also regret that every Thursday we have a two-hour Question Time, which is not included in the Rules of Procedure either. Members of Parliament were called together by the President in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It is now up to the Chamber to decide on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u15	Madam President, I will put it politely if Members allow me to speak. After a vote we may be able to start at 11:00. So we've been here for an hour. I wonder what the opposition thinks it will achieve for the people they represent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, we have opened this meeting for three quarters of an hour. The aim was, of course, to start our work earlier in order to reach the end of the agenda at a relatively reasonable time. This request has been expressed on several occasions and has sometimes been accepted. This time, I insisted not - as some are trying to make it grow - to please the majority. She wants to sit at night; that's not the problem. But what image do we give outside, starting with questions at 2.15 p.m., to continue with our discussions on 13 texts at around 5 p.m.? Is that a normal rhythm? We have worked with the services on a modus operandi that is more respectful of the rhythms of each and the staff that follows us as well. I don't want to question it, but I just think it might be time to think about how we work. That's what this is about. It has been three quarters of an hour since we discussed whether we can start our work at 10 a.m. It's an arrow from the opposition. I hear all your comments; I have received all your criticisms, some of which have portrayed me as "president of the majority". No, I had not asked for it by a majority, since I had already proposed at the previous Conference of Presidents to open the meeting earlier, since we perceived that there would be more texts on the agenda. There is something wrong in our way of operating through this Conference of Presidents. That is why I wanted to call it today, because the Rules allow me to do so. It's not anti-regulatory, as you're trying to make it look like. In my view, there is room to look at this. I made you prepare a note. Moreover, I am not the only guarantor of the Rules of Procedure: there is an administration behind it, there are lawyers. And what do they say? Pursuant to rule 17, rule 1, the Speaker of the House - the Speaker in this case - may call additional sittings. I quote: "The President shall submit to the House for ratification the order of business in plenary session, drawn up after having obtained the opinion of the Conference of Presidents." Of course, the Speaker of the House has the right to convene a plenary session and to submit its order of business, after obtaining the opinion of the Conference of Presidents, in the absence of consensus. This is the situation we found ourselves in. In the absence of consensus in this Conference of Presidents, it is up to the Plenary Assembly to decide on the order of business. There are several cases - they have been transmitted to you - in which this situation has been applied, Mr Van Hees, in compliance with rule 17.1, after the Chamber has fixed the order of business for the following week. This is the case today. I am not innovating and this is not a dangerous precedent; it is a way of making this Parliament work a little more respectful. Mr De Roover, when we refer to the Conference of Presidents and want to ensure that the agreements reached there are respected, I ask you to respect them until the end. Today, we are limited to 67 members in this House, including 11 members for the N-VA, your group. There are about 20 of you in the House today! Well, respect the rules too! You're 20! Also respect the agreed agreement: 11 members of the N-VA can attend our work. We are meeting in plenary, the N-VA is allowed to bring in 11 members of its group, and I note that you are about 20 and you are occupying the benches of the other parties. That's the reality!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u17	Madam President, we are limited to eleven people present at the meetings, but this is not a meeting. We're here to see what's going on. Can you tell me when the Members of Parliament were invited to the 10 a.m. meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u18	This was published on the website. [[Brouhahaha]] You can laugh! This is not an elegant way of dealing with this Parliament, Mr De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u19	The official invitation is in last week's report: Thursday at 2.15 p.m. No one's received a counter-message. No member of parliament has received the notice that the invitation expires and is brought forward to 10:00. In short, there is no meeting here!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u20	Mr De Roover, you are well aware of this and all the group leaders know that, as the Conference of Presidents has explicitly discussed it. You can't ignore it. We discussed it extensively yesterday and it was published and sent out. You know that. There was a summons. The proof is that you're here and it's not really a coincidence. I propose that you proceed to the vote, and I would also like to point out that if the length of the sittings is such, it is also because seven additional questions were added yesterday, and that is because of the opposition. When you speak of a president who works according to the majority, that is absolutely not the case. The plenary sessions are extended as a result of your additional inquiries.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u21	Madam President, with all due respect, we are having various debates here. You have the right to convene a meeting if there are exceptional urgent circumstances. I have not heard from you, nor from any of the majority members who intervened in the discussion, what these exceptional urgent circumstances are to suddenly go through the website...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u22	Madame Pas, I understand you didn't want to understand. We've spent almost an hour talking.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u23	What are the urgent circumstances for suddenly convening an exceptional meeting? Mr Flahaut refers to the fact that we need to think about an amendment to the Rules of Procedure. I agree that we should think about working on decent hours. Agreed, I am prepared to cooperate constructively. But today the Rules of Procedure still apply! At least these Rules of Procedure should still apply!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u24	I've quoted the article that we can refer to in order to summon you. It is still the right of the Presidency of Parliament to convene a sitting. That's what we did, Mrs. Pas.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u25	Yes, you quoted the article and that speaks of exceptional, urgent circumstances that are required. We have not received an answer to that. If that is the new political culture, Mr De Vriendt, namely the interpretation that the Rules of Procedure can be pushed aside, then it is not a miracle that the opposition parties find each other. It's more of a miracle that the Vivaldi parties will find each other. You should not therefore be afraid that, if The Economist makes a list next year about the democracy index, Belgium, as a poor democracy, will be even lower there, since Parliament does not even respect its own Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u26	Mrs Pas, I cannot let you say that Parliament does not respect the Rules of Procedure because that is not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u27	Madam Chair, the opposition has clearly demonstrated that you are not in compliance with the Rules of Procedure. The service note also implicitly demonstrates this. In fact, instead of referring to a passage in the Rules to prove your decision, the note simply gives...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u28	Mr Van Hees, that's enough! We must stop repeating that we are not complying with the Rules of Procedure when we have just demonstrated the opposite. We have to stop fake news!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u29	Already respect the words of the members!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u30	No fake news in this Parliament! Under section 17.1, the Chair has the right to convene a meeting of the Assembly. This article cannot be called into question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u31	The note implicitly demonstrates that you are in violation of the Rules as it merely refers to precedents. Madam President, you propose to proceed to the vote. But I do not understand how this can be possible since this vote should open the plenary session. So this one hasn't started yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u32	Your demonstration is not convincing, Mr. Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u33	You have a vote taken at a time when the plenary session has not begun! Explain to me!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u34	Mr Van Hees, I repeat that your demonstration is not convincing! I would remind you that, in accordance with Rule 17.1, the Speaker of the House has the right to convene a meeting of the plenary assembly, which is why we are meeting this morning. You were warned yesterday of the holding of this meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u35	But how can we vote if the plenary session has not yet begun?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u36	We are applying Parliament's Rules of Procedure today, and in accordance with them, I will have this proposal voted on.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u37	Firstly, I believe that we should have received an invitation to this meeting before we are invited to vote. The note in question only refers to Article 17 as if Articles 11 and 40 no longer exist. Were they deactivated? I believe that Article 11 is clear and that it refers to Article 40, not Article 17. First of all, when are we invited? I agree with you that, in exceptional circumstances, you can invite the Chamber to give an opinion on these exceptional circumstances, but you must invite us. That didn't happen, and you're acting like it's a detail now. We must therefore keep a permanent eye on the Chamber's website, in case a plenary session is suddenly scheduled. For a vote, we'll get a text, which doesn't seem to be a problem. However, it appears technically impossible to inform 150 Members of Parliament of a plenary session. Secondly, what should we vote on? It seems that we should vote on whether there is an exceptional circumstance. I would like to see that question justified. I would like to know what exceptional circumstance justifies us being here now. You say that there are many members of the N-VA Group here. That is also logical, because we normally had a group meeting at the moment. We must submit our questions within seven minutes! With any luck there will be no questions and we can go home very early. Many members of the government and majority will probably think that is a dream scenario. Because of your intervention, the group meeting cannot continue and we cannot comply with Rule 11. If I take the book The Federal Parliament of the Registrar, the Bible of this Parliament, I note that many pages have been devoted to the importance of group meetings. So that's not a bagatel! Where is the respect for the functioning of the political groups? Where is the respect for the way in which we are trying to carry out our political work together? There are many committee meetings and our group members do not often have the opportunity to sit together, except on the planned Thursday morning. You've made that impossible. So the first question is when we are invited. Secondly, what is your responsibility if we are invited to vote? In particular, what exceptional circumstances should we vote on here? If you do not answer these questions and simply force a vote without invitation against the Rules of Procedure, I am sorry to see that you are formally the President of the majority. The opposition members rarely find each other substantive, but there is now a very broad opposition. When it comes to Parliament's rights and you can only count on the majority groups, you must question your functioning for a moment. You will then have to ask yourself who you are the President of. We voted in favour of Mrs van Peel's candidacy at the first sitting. I hope that does not violate the secrecy of the vote. Mrs Van Peel has lost, you have got the majority behind you. We respect that. From that moment on, you were also our President. We have not proposed a counter candidate this year, as you know. We have thus given you our confidence as President of the entire House. So you must note that there was no consensus on the very late change in the starting hour, not because one group had a problem with it but because the entire opposition had practical problems with it, for the political functioning of the political groups. If you ignore that, you will no longer be the chairman of my group for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u38	Mr. De Roover, you're an excellent lawyer. Nevertheless, the position that I stand for, which is also the position of the services of this chamber, the whole administration, is rule 17.1 of the Rules of Procedure. In the event of non-consensus at the Conference of Presidents, a plenary may be convened. I don't want to go back to that. It is the Rules of Procedure and I propose that you vote on this proposal to begin the agenda at 10 a.m. Do we vote by sitting and rising?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u39	Madam President, Rule 17 has already been mentioned on several occasions, which concerns the content of a sitting and not the schedule of a sitting. I would also like to know on what basis you are going to organise this vote. Is this a vote on the basis of the third paragraph of Article 17? Is it on this basis that you're going to organize it? I refer here to the Clerk's book "The Federal Parliament: Composition, Organization and Operation". I am not going to read the few extremely interesting pages on how to interpret and how the Rules should be interpreted. Madam President, I invite you to read pages 46, 47, 48 and 49, and that may be helpful in order to avoid doing what you are doing today in the future, that is to say, twisting the Rules of Procedure. This is extremely unpleasant and unacceptable, not only in relation to this morning's plenary but also because this way of twisting the Rules of Procedure by the majority and by you, as President who should be the President of all, is obviously a prerequisite for all abuses for the future. Returning to the third paragraph of rule 17, it is provided that a motion in writing must prevail over the order of business. Do you justify it otherwise? I would be interested if we could clarify things before the vote and clarify the voting procedure. As far as the vote is concerned, I think it would be a minimum if it were to be a nominative vote, even if, I repeat, I do not see very well what the vote is based on. It will then be necessary to allow each group to organize itself, since the majority may have organised themselves upstream but obviously did not warn the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u40	Mrs Fonck, on the question relating to the motion that you are referring to, rule 17, thirdly, makes it clear that "the order of business can only be changed at a later stage by a vote on the initiative of the Speaker of the House", in this case we are "either from the government or by a vote on a motion in writing and supported by a third of the members of the House". We are not in this case a motion. You can still look, but I think the author of the book is pretty clear. There is nothing on pages 46 and 47 that you refer to that is contrary to what we are adopting today, as a procedure, absolutely nothing! I propose that you proceed to the vote. Is it done by sitting and standing or by an individual vote? By individual vote. I will then give you a few minutes so that everyone can log in and technically launch the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u41	I suggest that you suspend the sitting for ten minutes and call each one to this vote. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u42	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u43	Colleagues, we interrupted the session to allow members to log in. I note that the N-VA group has left the room and is not necessarily connected a priori, just like another group in our assembly. However, we shall proceed to the vote on the agenda and the opening time of the sitting. To answer a question that was asked about the convening of our meeting, an e-mail was sent to all members yesterday at 4:28 p.m. to signify the agenda and the time of the beginning of this meeting. As we close the vote, we can see that the opposition does not wish to speak on this vote. Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u44	Yes 81 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 86 Total Accordingly, the agenda, as amended, was approved. The amended agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u45	Madam President, now that the plenary has begun, I wanted to come back to another point that I had raised before it began. This was Bill No. 2456 which we will be asking earlier to put on the agenda of the plenary. We absolutely do not agree with the way in which the majority is trying to force its putting on the agenda. There was a consensus yesterday in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u46	I am interrupting you to point out that this document is not on the agenda and that we will discuss it at the appropriate time if it goes on the agenda. Let's focus on the agenda. You want to be precise, I'm going to be precise, too. This document will be referred to in committee earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u47	Madam President, this document still concerns the plenary because, according to Rule 23 of the Rules of Procedure, it is possible...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u48	I ask you not to speak on this matter now because it is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u49	Madam Chair, there is a committee that is convened at 1 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u50	Go and discuss this matter in the committee. You no longer have the floor, Mrs. Merckx.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u51	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u52	Madam President, there are two rapporteurs. Mr Delizée is also the rapporteur on behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs, but I see that he is not here, perhaps because he did not receive the invitation to this sitting. I also have the honour and pleasure of being rapporteur on behalf of the Finance Committee. That is important because part of the report is oral. An amendment was voted on yesterday in the Committee on Finance. The Minister of Finance explained in committee that the draft law contained a series of temporary support measures as a result of the coronapandemic. These measures were considered necessary in order to provide the necessary support for enterprises, self-employed persons and citizens who are economically severely affected by the sanitary measures imposed by that government. The Minister has, of course, limited himself to the measures within his competence, namely the tax credit for non-recoverable expenditure, the extension of the exemption from reimbursement under the aid measures taken by the regional and local authorities, the extension of a number of corona measures relating to the tax shelter for audiovisual works and performing arts, the extension of the period during which the exempt corona premium can be granted and, finally, the means of providing student labour. The latter was amended in the Finance Committee. Mr Donné stated in committee that he had a series of comments on the tax credit for non-recoverable expenditure. This is chapter 1 of the draft law under discussion today. The PS has made no mention of this in the Finance Committee. On behalf of Ecolo-Green, Ms Cornet welcomed the tax credit for non-recoverable expenditure and welcomed the extension of the period during which the exempt corona premium could be made available to employees. Finally, Mrs Cornet welcomed the student labour regime. I myself have spoken on behalf of Flemish Interest, but, Madam President, with your permission, we certainly need to make an important correction to the report. Let me read out: 'Mr Wouter Vermeersch, N-VA, wishes to support all the proposed measures on behalf of his group'. I want to be a coulant on the Finance Committee. Last week our amendments were adopted there. But it is not because we approve a number of things and we are part of the traditional parties that we should immediately be given the stamp N-VA. That must certainly be corrected. As far as Flemish Interest is concerned, and not the N-VA, I have said that our group will support all the proposed measures. Only as far as the tax credit for non-recoverable expenditure is concerned, we have put a number of questions to the Minister in committee. Mr Benoît Piedboeuf also expressed his views on this non-recoverable expenditure. Then Mr Marco Van Hees, who will probably intervene later, has given his support to Chapter 2. He has abstained from the four other chapters, but I am sure he will explain this later. Mr Christian Leysen pointed out, on behalf of Open Vld, that social dialogue was not always successful. He therefore advocated that all decisions should not be left to social dialogue. It's been noted. Mr Vandenbroucke pointed out that his group would also support all measures. So much for the first meeting of the Finance Committee. Yesterday we held a second meeting because Mr Matheï had tabled an amendment. I have to report to you orally today. The result of the vote on this amendment was 11 votes in favour and 1 abstention. The whole of the articles sent to the Finance and Budget Committee was finally adopted unanimously. The measure whereby the hours of student work not charged for the annual quota in the first quarter of 2022 are no longer included in this bill, is part of another bill submitted to the Chamber. The fiscal provision attached to it is also included in the separate legislative proposal referred to. It was therefore proposed that Chapter 5 of Title 5 should be deleted in this draft law. That's what happened on this one. That's what happened on this one. So much for the explanation of this draft bill on behalf of the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u53	Mr. Delizée wished to point out that he was not absent because of my non-convocation, since the summons had gone away yesterday at 4:28 p.m. and he was therefore well aware of it. He is only far away and had some trouble connecting to the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us is somewhat amputated. It is an illustration of the way in which this majority and this government are constantly working. We had an interesting debate earlier on the agenda and the invitation to this plenary session which never came. That is not without importance because we are constantly establishing that Mr Flahaut's statement on this matter was very enlightening and that two things disturb this majority and this government: firstly, Parliament is meeting too long and too long and, secondly, the Conference of Presidents is meeting too long and too long. The solution to this is quite simple. Just put those organs out of play. This bill actually does so, in different ways. On the one hand, there are provisions which allow the extension of measures for approval without any parliamentary debate, by means of a KB of the Minister. That is a way of putting Parliament out of play. Another way of putting democratic control aside is to merge different articles of the draft and submit them in the form of a legislative proposal, in order to avoid, for example, the control of the Council of State. It was just about the new political culture. Mr De Vriendt took those words in his mouth. The new political culture of the Vivaldi government and the majority is next. The less parliamentary debate the better and the more Parliament can be sidelined the better. We are also going to blame Parliament itself for having the image of not doing anything. However, if one makes it de facto impossible to hold a debate, one should not say that Parliament does nothing or at least has that image. That is what the new political culture of this government and this majority represent: as little parliamentary debate as possible, as little democratic control as possible in any form. Advice on legal aspects by the Council of State is also preferable. It just bothers me. Cela dérange Then I'll come to the content of the draft law or what's left of it. Firstly, the payment of RSZ contributions. Indeed, in 2020, 2021 and still today, a lot of companies are in trouble if they have to pay RSZ contributions at a time when their turnover is falling sharply and suddenly. Therefore, in 2020 and 2021, the possibility of concluding friendly payment plans between the companies and the RSZ was created, without imposing sanctions and penalties on those employers. That is a good thing in itself. We have always supported this. This is now again in this bill. We support this measure, but we are asking ourselves out loud how long the government intends to maintain it, because it is precisely those restrictive measures that make a major contribution to ensuring that we are still going to have to deal with all kinds of friendly payment plans and RSZ premiums. However, this is not something that happens to us: turnover reductions are increasingly caused by the restrictive measures imposed on our companies. Of course, the problems themselves can be maintained for a very long time, but it is a mystery to what good cause that should contribute to. We must bear in mind that the benefits of the measures that are constantly imposed on companies have long been outweighed by their costs. The draft law also provides for a new RSZ premium for a number of sectors which have suffered from or have suffered from a recent experience of indoor playgrounds, as this is already obsolete under the corona measures. We fully understand that sectors affected by the many corona measures receive the necessary support, but the modalities of the new premium do not meet the criteria of good governance and good spending of taxpayers' money. Public funds are people's money. Contrary to previous premiums set up in 2020 and 2021, this premium is not limited in terms of the number of employees. In other words, no account is taken of the extent to which the entrepreneur himself is still trying to develop some activities. We also note that there is no longer any connection with the loss of turnover. That's not without importance. Moreover, the premium that can be applied for for the first or second quarter of 2022 is even calculated on the basis of the 2021 quarter in which the entrepreneur paid the highest RSZ contribution of the year. This means that a new RSZ premium will be created which may be higher than the underlying RSZ costs. If that's the point, then of course my lump breaks. As a blow to the flames, Parliament is once again being sidelined by this bill. We have a fundamental problem with this. We have also made this point in committee, and I would like to repeat it here, because these are things that we really cannot agree to. We welcome a number of support measures, but the way in which they are implemented is a problem for us, and this requires us to abstain from doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak on social measures. As far as pensions are concerned, it is well known that in times of crisis it is important to maintain pension rights for workers who are already weakened by temporary unemployment. As far as social assistance is concerned, we cannot pretend that the epidemic and the measures to be taken do not affect household budgets, since we know that today, buying gel, masks and self-tests for ourselves but also for our children, providing meals at home when the children are in quarantine, while they normally eat at the canteen for a small sum, all this obviously weighs on the most vulnerable. Here, it is not a question of structurally addressing the problems of poverty, but of responding to an emergency. With regard to the social assistance component, other measures already taken are, in the long run, aimed at raising the amount of allowances to the level of the poverty line. As of 1 January 2022, compared to 2020, an isolated person will receive an additional EUR 101, an additional EUR 76 cohabitant, and an additional EUR 150 family. This trajectory will continue until 2024. My group obviously welcomes these measures; it was important to extend them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u56	Madam President, I will be brief. Of course, we welcome the extension of measures to assist businesses, but also to all those in difficulty. Among the initiatives that have been taken, I am thinking in particular of the extension of tax shelter measures, which allow the cultural sector to change again the conventions so as not to lose the funds and tax deductions that had been promoted. We would also like to welcome the Minister of Finance's original initiative on the tax credit for the event sector, in order to turn expenses that are no longer recoverable into a tax credit and thereby improve the cash flow of businesses. We would therefore like to welcome the creativity of this measure which is favourable to the cultural sector and to welcome all those who will be voted on today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u57	Madam President, the present programme law combines a lot of measures, of which my group can taste several and others not at all. I would like to make a few brief points on which we have fundamental reservations. The coronabonus has become a mess and a mess. Instead of simply giving the freedom to negotiate real wage increases, it had to become a coronabonus. There are no social rights attached to the coronabonus and no social security income. I'm just going over the facts. For months, the social partners negotiated. For the same time the trade unions have protested against these crumbs, which are 0.4%. This Vivaldi government then put the patterns in a seat by announcing that the 1996 wage standard will be applied by freezing the wage margin at 0.4% in any case. The left-wing parties in the Vivaldi coalition had, however, made beautiful promises. If the bosses refuse to give good wages, then we freeze their wages and dividends, so they put it. A certain Paul Magnette said: "If the unions do not agree on the wage margin, the Minister of Labour will not sign the royal decision to block wages." None of these things have come into the house. The alternative was therefore the coronabonus of up to 500 euros. Mind you, that's the maximum amount. Moreover, the bonus is only granted in sectors that have been well-manned during the crisis. I heard the Minister speak two weeks ago about the success of the coronabonus, because nearly 60,000 companies had applied it. I feel substitute shame, because in 60,000 companies the knife was simply put to the throat, as the relationship of strength with the unions was simply destroyed. The workers and trade unions were, as expected, angry about the crumbs. We have seen this in the negotiations, which, in many sectors, obviously took longer than usual. Many employers didn't even want to award the coronabonus. This game is still going on with service cheques, a sector with a high level of low wages and many part-time contracts, a low-wage sector with companies that only exist thanks to state subsidies. In this context, I would like to pay tribute to the department's housekeepers who are taking action throughout the country to denounce the attitude of employers. They were still in Antwerp on Monday. There Federgon is active, a contemptuous employer who still refuses to make a reasonable gesture to the workers in the sector and who has been blocking negotiations since December. We therefore call on the Minister of Labour to put an end to this game and to make a decision to the benefit of these workers. We are voting today on a measure extending the period of the coronabonus, so that the bonus is not taken into account in the calculation of the margin of 0.4%. That's how far it's come in the meantime. It's still messed up and messed up. The PVDA totally disagrees with this policy of a minority to the detriment of the majority. Only workers' wages are blocked, not high wages or profits. After all, they exploded during this crisis. Again, the 1996 law has to go. We therefore fully support the civil petition of the trade unions which calls for it. By the way, we'll see it again in the Chamber. We ask all employees in the country to sign this petition effectively. With more than 50,000 signatories, this petition has already received more signatures today than most colleagues here in the Chamber have received preferred votes. We do not want small one-off bonuses that do not add anything to the pension. We want real gross wage increases which are sustainable, which strengthen workers' social rights and which fill the social security funds. Then there is a poverty measure in the midst of a corona and an energy invoicing crisis. The PVDA supports the extension of the premium for people with a living wage, income guarantee, old-age benefit or income replacement allowance for people with disabilities. At the same time, we are very critical. An amount of EUR 25 is simply far too little. Even in conjunction with the much-promoted increase in early January and indexations, these benefits are below the poverty line. The corona crisis is really not over, if that's what one would think. On the contrary, in the wake of the health crisis there is an energy crisis with sky-high prices for electricity, gas and fuel. It's totally inappropriate to use energy for those who don't have it wide. The reduction in the premium from EUR 50 to EUR 25 had nothing to do with poverty policy, it was a pure saving operation. Of course, the PVDA understands that the social rate is also there for those people. Of course, the PVDA knows that a whole range of other measures are also being extended, such as the covid grant or the grant for young people and students. That extra support is useful. However, an increase in benefits is much easier in many cases. We are therefore giving Parliament a final chance to increase the premium to EUR 50, extend it until the end of 2022 and extend it to the people with low sickness benefits. I have again tabled a number of amendments on this subject. Finally, not only the people need to be kept straight, the OMCWs also need additional resources. The enhanced federal allowance for the OCMWs expired on 30 September 2021. That's a huge mistake. The OMCWs need to be structurally strengthened. Just that measure was a small step in that direction. We are therefore again tabling an amendment to increase the grant by 15% until the end of 2022. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, do not let your chairmen or group leaders tell you that the government will fall if you approve the PVDA amendment. That's impossible, isn't it? Will the government be dropped in the midst of a health crisis and an energy invoicing crisis because there will be additional resources for those two million people involved in our country? Who dares to go to the elections with that? Who is so cut off from reality? A third point concerns social affairs, volunteers and commercial retirement homes. The use of volunteers is important for the rest home residents and the staff. However, I would like to make a very strong comment. In the last week, the commercial residential care centers came up very negative in the news. In certain commercial retirement homes basic care is not even guaranteed. However, the elderly pay very high daily prices there, which can be up to EUR 4,000 on a monthly basis. In Flanders, 15 residential care centres are on the blacklist of the Health Inspectorate. In addition, commercial operators employ 20% fewer staff than public residential care centres. Colleagues, you should know that commercial homes do not normally have the right to volunteer. Making a profit on the hood of the volunteers would be weird. Now the current majority wants to temporarily lift that ban without any condition, just like that, after all that we have heard. I tabled amendments and asked the Minister to take action yesterday. It didn't make any sense. The coalition will, without any reservations, once again ease the staff shortages in the private residential care centres with volunteers, 1,500 in 2021. You have to imagine that! The measure will therefore also apply to the 13 Flemish commercial rest homes under the increased supervision of the inspection services. As a minimum to make that acceptable, I am tabling an amendment aimed at prohibiting the distribution of dividends, bonuses and the purchase of shares for commercial retirement homes working with volunteers. It is your own text, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, please take a look at paragraph 2 of Article 45 of the legislative text. So you can approve it with confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u58	Madam President, this draft is important for the government, because, at times when all the attention goes to combating a pandemic, we also want to pursue social policy, socially responsible, for whom it is difficult, for the broad population of working people who are deeply concerned about their purchasing power, and also for a number of affected sectors. I will not repeat all the elements of the debate on aid measures in committee. I explained to Mr Colebunders, among other things, that I fully share the concerns about what is happening in a number of private places of rest. The inspection is the responsibility of the Länder. Moreover, I pointed out that what is in the draft with regard to bonuses and dividends, which we do not want to see paid out in sectors where we offer financial support, cannot be applied to the resting areas if the reasoning is not simply copy-paste. What is in the draft is that we will show caution. We will not give financial support to certain sectors when bonuses and dividends are paid. It's about financial support. The fact that we allow temporary volunteers to be used in the many places of rest, including the private sector, which work well, but which are difficult due to a shortage of hands, seems to me to be normal in this exceptional situation. I would just like to respond to Mr Anseuw's criticism of the support measures for the affected sectors. It's about the event sector, the discotheques and the indoor playgrounds. The government has added the snooker rooms and the halls for paintball games. Mr Anseeeuw finds the support too generous. I absolutely disagree with that. First of all, these sectors were not only affected by the current government measures, but it will also be very difficult for them to achieve the level of success they used to know. The audience they're counting on is hesitating. People go less to concerts or other events, and that of course has to do with the fact that we have been asking for months to be careful, and rightly so. We now believe that we can securely organise public events and think that we can safely reopen discotheques at some point, provided that some measures are taken. In any case, it will not be easy for those sectors to quickly resume their normal operation and generate their normal income. That is why we are taking measures that also support the revival of these sectors. These include the event sector, the discotheques and the indoor playgrounds. In support of employment in these sectors, I find it not generous to grant them a contribution equal to the three-month patronial contributions during the first six months of this year, taking into account the most favourable calculation basis of the last three quarters. I really don't see what's overly generous about that. Of course, the patronial contributions paid last year may have been slightly higher than the patronal contributions paid this year on a quarter, but that is not the measure we compare. The point is that we have sought a reasonable and proportionate criterion to provide financial support for maintaining employment for certain sectors which are partly closed and which, when reopened, will not be easy to achieve. So I do not agree at all with Mr Anseuw that this support is too generous. I also think it is logical that the government should, through this draft, provide for the possibility of extending such a measure by decision if necessary. That seems perfectly normal to me, and if Parliament agrees, we can do so. Mr Anseuw, if we take a decision with which the majority of Parliament absolutely does not agree, a motion of censure can be tabled in a parliamentary democracy and the government falls. However, it seems logical to me that the government should give itself some flexibility to act quickly and to stand ready when sectors would face permanent difficulties. To sum up, we are aware that the population is struggling. Working people are having a hard time; people living in poverty have been made even more difficult by the crisis and companies are having a hard time because of the measures and the aftermath of the crisis. We want to do something about that. What we do is really not too generous. We must do what is necessary and for that reason I strongly recommend the draft to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u59	Mr Minister, you have now tired yourself for at least five minutes of rebutting something I did not say. I did not say that the measure is too generous. I have pointed out that, firstly, the measures imposed on, among other things, sectors endorsed by the draft law leave us no choice but to support those sectors. The second point I have made is that the modalities of the new RSZ premium have been drawn up in such a way that the premium itself may be higher than the costs of the RSZ. I don't think that's the intention. Did I say that the arrangement is too generous? No. I have simply pointed out a perverse effect of the scheme as it has been made. That's something completely different. As regards the extension of the measure by a Royal Decree, you say that this method is necessary in order to be able to act quickly. This afternoon the debate will be held on the extension of the medical emergency through the pandemic law. That is a completely outdated debate, which immediately illustrates how absurd it can be if you want to act with powers of attorney for the government very quickly. The same applies here, of course. You then point out the theoretical possibility that, if one does not agree with a royal decision, one can table a motion of censure. Of course, that argument is just too grotesque to take it seriously. You know very well, Minister, that this method amounts to additional power of attorney for the government, which once again removes the debate on this matter from Parliament. When you make a plea here for rebooting and relance of a number of sectors where it is difficult today, because among others people hesitate to buy tickets for events, it may be time to stop scaring people unnecessarily. Will you stop that? I believe that this will support the relance of these sectors more than a RSZ premium which may actually be far too high compared to the costs of the premium. I didn't say the arrangement was too generous. I did say that it could have a very perverse effect. That's a big difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u60	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u61	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2430/10) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2430/10) The bill has 41 articles. The draft law has 41 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u62	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u63	Madam President, I have a practical question because the rumor has reached me that Secretary of State De Bleeker, who apparently thought that the debate on budgetary adjustment would start this morning and was present earlier, will not be able to attend this afternoon's discussion. Agendas are being changed, but the government seems to have forgotten to inform certain colleagues about them. I think it is appropriate that you check whether the relevant Secretary of State, who was also present in the committee, will be present this afternoon at the meeting. Can you take care of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u64	Madam President, Mrs Pas, yesterday the Conference of Presidents informed the government of the absences. Secretary of State De Bleeker has to go to Strasbourg. It will be legally replaced and the government will be present. However, she herself must go to Strasbourg for an informal summit.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u65	I propose that you continue our agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u66	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by:
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u67	Sophie Thémont, Florence Reuter, Cécile Cornet, Nathalie Muylle, Tania De Jonge, Anja Vanrobaeys, Evita Willaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u68	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Anseuw is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as with the previous item on the agenda, we can only observe that it is becoming a bad practice for this government to send in some of the majority MEPs with a legislative proposal that is actually a hidden bill. This practice enables the government to evade the otherwise mandatory opinion of the Council of State. That is why this is a very reprehensible practice. Is some of the support measures included in the present legislative proposal urgent? Oh, yeah. That is why we support a number of these measures in full, although I should like to comment on the urgency of these measures. This urgency does not just happen to us. The urgent nature of these support measures is increasingly and increasingly something that we call upon about ourselves, or rather something that this federal government calls upon all sections of our society. Let me give you an example. Education and care are sectors in which staff shortages have become increasingly pronounced since the coronapandemic. These deficits must, of course, be dealt with. However, where these deficits are becoming increasingly acute, deficits are also increasingly linked to high quarantine rates. These quarantine figures don't just happen to us, quarantine figures are the direct result of policy choices made by this government under the guise of corona. These policy choices are all too often based on corona measures which restrict society of all kinds, and more and more often also on people who are not ill. Eventually one comes to a point where one causes more problems than solves them. The large-scale restriction of people's freedom of movement over the last few weeks has therefore hit its limits in the sectors we are discussing today, care and education, but also in some other sectors. I therefore believe that it is high time to question this. It is striking that the measures are only aimed at a very small group of 1.4 million...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u70	Mr Anseuw, Mrs Vanrobaeys is asking for the floor for a break. (Mr Laaouej from an objection, his microphone is not turned on)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u71	You have a problem with my speech while I am on the list of speakers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u72	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u73	Mr Laaouej, that you want to take Parliament out so far, but that you also find it annoying that I am taking the floor at all... then it becomes too much.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u74	Madam President, I am speaking for personal reasons. My colleague, there is the report and then there is your speech. You really say what you want. That's not my problem, but the report is the report. The report reflects the exchanges that have taken place, possibly of a somewhat factual nature. Madam President, this is her speech. He did not refer to the report. He was a rapporteur. But if it is his intervention, then I have no problem with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u75	For the sake of clarity of our discussions, Mr Anseeuw refers to his written report and we are well in the speeches. The first is that of the N-VA by the voice of Mr Anseew who speaks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u76	Madam Chair, I realize that the N-VA has some lessons to give with respect to compliance with the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u77	There are comments from your group, of course, that there is too much embezzlement. You are doing very well, Mr Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u78	Mr Anseuw, I also did not understand that you had referred to the written report. It is indeed about your intervention. You say that it is up to the quarantine rules that there are always shortages in education, but do you deny that there are no other structural deficits in education? Teachers are now on the streets, but also in Flanders there is a structural shortage in which students, regardless of quarantine rules, are in the study for up to ten hours a week because there are shortages of biology teachers, chemistry teachers, especially scientific teachers. This isn't just because of the quarantine rules, is it? On the contrary, these quarantine rules just keep the teachers who are there alive. I even know of schools that have recently switched to distance learning in order to keep the teachers who are there alive.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u79	Madam President, I think we have a fundamental problem with this bill. This cannot actually be dealt with in this Chamber when I hear Mrs Vanrobaey's reading. Education is not a federal jurisdiction. Here, as far as I understand it, you are referring to something else, only to emergency measures in the context of the effects of the corona measures. There is indeed a possibility of federal intervention. If you now say that these measures must at least partially address possible structural problems in certain sectors that are not even federal, then we have a fundamental problem here, Mrs Vanrobaeys. Unless you try to open a debate quite easily that cannot actually be held here. It's been a good try, but I don't even think it's a commendable attempt. Two cases one, Mrs. Robaeys. Or maybe you tried. That is a bit sad, a bit cheap, because then you will not discuss the debate that we are talking about here. In other words, it is your firm belief that we must resolve the alleged structural problems in sectors for which we are not competent at the federal level. Madam President, if that is the majority reading, then I wonder whether this bill can be dealt with here? Perhaps this should be clarified first.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u80	Mr Anseuw, you are creating an illusion here as if the quarantine rules caused enormous educational shortages. The main purpose of the quarantine rules is to protect and protect people. They're health measures. I notice that some schools go even further in the quarantine rules, just to keep their staff up. However, you cannot deny that there is also a structural problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u81	Mrs Vanrobaeys, these are, first of all, your deepest emotions and your personal opinion on something that is not for discussion here. Secondly, the point I have already made in my speech is indeed that we should once again question the Corona approach in areas where this approach causes more and more problems, including those who are not even ill. In fact, these problems lead to increasing pressure on workers who are still allowed to enter the workplace, not only in the education sector but also in the health sector, for months in a row and over the last few weeks. That is simply because more and more people who are not or are not seriously ill are still having to quarantine, which is why the remaining workers on the work floor are indeed experiencing more pressure. Mrs Vanrobaeys, that is the result of compulsory quarantine. It is not wrong to question this when we find that such a model clashes with its limits. If it does not clash on its borders, we should not relax all kinds of things, such as making it available from other sectors of staff for the care sector. Then none of that would be necessary. The fact that these things are needed is just the best proof of the fact that the model of extensive quarantine measures, which restricts the freedom of movement of more and more people, who are not even sick, is colliding with their borders. Otherwise, you should not even have proposed these measures here in your legislative proposal. Mrs. Vanrobaeys, that's the punch line of the story. That's the essence of the story. However, you do not seem to have noticed this yet. You do not need support measures if there are no problems. The problems are the consequences of a number of policy choices. When we can no longer question policy choices, we really have a problem. I have the impression that you are alluding to this, namely that those choices should not even be questioned two years after the date, two years after the start of the whole corona episode. That is a very strange way of doing things. After all, the model has collided on its limits over the last few weeks. That's the essence of the story. That is also why we are now discussing this bill in the Chamber, Mrs Vanrobaeys. When we look at the measures in the legislative proposal, we find that they are only aimed at a small group of 1.4 million people of working age who are dependent in this country on an income replacement. It concerns people who do not work, but in many cases could work. The only group among those 1.4 million beneficiaries that are caught by this bill are bridge pensioners and SWTs who are only allowed to enter somewhere on a voluntary basis and while maintaining three quarters of their unemployment benefit. The lack of ambition in this measure, namely its very limited reach, illustrates the government's labour market policy in a striking and painful way. It is a policy without ambition. Because it's not so wrong to give more people the ambition to get back to work, is it? As part of these measures, it would also have been perfectly possible to re-enable ordinary unemployed or people on a living wage. However, there is no sign of this in the current crisis measures. Those are two important groups, aren't they? If one had grasped this opportunity to integrate these groups into the measures, it would have been a unique opportunity for many people who need a step towards a second career more than they need. In that respect, this bill is really a missed opportunity. At the same time, where the authors of this proposal leave the unemployed and wage-earners out of work, they do not feel too bad about using measures which are merely symbolic. What else do you call a proposal whereby refugees are suddenly allowed to work within the first four months of their procedure, when they can only do so after four months? That's pure symbolism. If you know that of the non-EU citizens who are already allowed to work in this country, barely half of them are working, why do you think you will solve the problem suddenly by putting people who have not been here for four months to work? Then why not try to consider structural employment measures for the non-Europeans in this country, who are already allowed to work, but whose half are not even working? By allowing refugees to work during the first four months of their procedure, we will not solve the pressing need in certain sectors today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. If you do not go any further than simply using the pubic patch of fresh asylum seekers to solve the problems caused by corona measures, that is, as far as I am concerned, a second missed opportunity in this legislative proposal. There are also other measures such as the posting of workers who can then work temporarily in another sector or company, which we support. In fact, we put forward a legislative proposal for this some time ago to structurally anchor it in our labour market. You could have turned that emergency measure, which is now very temporary and very limited in scope, into a structural employment measure. But there too, the Croo government doesn't give at home. You are now proposing to temporarily allow the unemployed, SWTs and bridge-retired people to work elsewhere. You may want to lure those interested by letting them retain 75% of their benefit. If you look further than your nose is long, do you have to admit that a healthy labour market policy should make structural use of the enormous labour potential of, among other things, temporary unemployed, SWTs and bridge-retired people? Then you should also admit that a healthy labour market policy would work without maintaining 75% of a benefit making it sufficiently rewarding. Whoever thinks I'm here to plead for everyone's benefit isn't. I call for structural measures where it is indeed worthwhile, interesting, attractive enough in this country to get back to work without a piece of benefit. But the vivaldimate majority doesn't succeed in that either. More than that, she doesn't even make an attempt worthy of that name. That's missed opportunity number three. Colleagues, the policy of this government is in fact based on a common thread, which only serves to bring together a host of missed opportunities. This disguised draft law is yet another illustration of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent weeks, the fifth wave of the covid-19 epidemic has led to the quarantine and disease of many workers. The health care and education sectors also face a significant shortage of staff. In order to ensure continuity of services, this bill reintroduces labour law measures, which had been introduced by the Act of 20 December 2020 on temporary support measures due to the covid-19 pandemic and which had ceased to apply on 30 September. This is the possibility of entering into successive fixed-term contracts with workers who are temporarily unemployed without the conclusion of an indefinite employment contract. However, these conditions must be met. The contract must be concluded with an employer other than that in which the worker is temporarily unemployed and the successive contracts must last at least seven days. Here too, the provision of workers to users in the care and education sectors is renewed, provided that these permanent workers have entered service with the employer concerned before 1 October 2021. In the case of time credit, a worker may voluntarily suspend his time credit or career break in order to resume his initial employment with his employer or in temporary employment with another employer in the care or education sector. Of course, workers retain 75% of the allowances paid by the ONEM with adjustments in case the suspension is less than one month. Temporary unemployed persons may, if they so wish, work temporarily for another employer in the care or education sector, while retaining 75% of their allowances, as well as for pre-pensioners or unemployed persons with additional business. Provision is also made for the suspension of the four-month period imposed on applicants for international protection after the submission of their application to the CGRA, provided that the application was lodged before 31 December 2021. If that were the case, asylum-seekers could therefore increase the number of staff in the care and education sectors without taking into account the usual time frame. As far as student contracts are concerned, the 175-hour quota per year will not take into account the hours worked in the care and education sectors during the first quarter of 2022. Any undertaking planning to use any of these measures must submit them to social consultation. Here, Madam Chair, for this presentation of the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with these legislative proposals that have been passed or translated, but as well as with almost everything in this House, we are once again following the facts. Over the last few months, we have heard the fear prophets massively warn of the fourth and fifth wave of the corona crisis. In this House, the big words were not shy: we had to prepare ourselves for the worst. After two years of crisis, there was still trade and communication without any great plan. The schools were closed again, the testing capacity could not cope and the working population was quarantined massively, including in education and care, especially those sectors where there were too few hands. This naturally has economic consequences, which require a solution, is the logical consequence. But this plan was clearly not ready. One sometimes gets in the way of one another within the government, but what is uniform is that one is too late with everything, but also everything. Once again, we must approve something with retroactive effect. This was accompanied by a round of arm wrestling with the opposition, by forcing the urgency, so that one should not ask the Council of State for advice. That is, of course, the interpretation by purple-green of the new political culture. It is purely a question of extending measures in the field of health care and education which have already been applied and which we have little or no objection to. However, the introduction with retroactive effect continues to be nonsensical in view of the strict labour legislation. Legal certainty is a very good thing, which we must guard. This proposal is therefore at least one month late. The legal certainty of citizens is being fooled. We're not just saying this. Retroactive, then. The Council of State is right to make a comment on this. However, every day, legislative work passes through here that we have to adopt retroactively. Perhaps we can also do this for another dossier, a dossier where this is really important and where retroactivity could really make a difference for the many citizens in our country. I am talking about the dossier on the reduction of VAT on electricity and gas. But then you can't. Then suddenly it doesn't go day by day. Then we must exhaust all procedures. Then the majority will stand on the brake after the announcement. My appeal today is to bring the files to this House more quickly so that they can be approved in time. If we call for an exemption for legislation with retroactive effect, let us do so for really important dossiers such as the reduction of VAT on gas and electricity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u84	As we have already explained in committee, the PVDA absolutely does not agree with this bill. The problem of under-employment dates back to the pandemic, especially in health and education. The pandemic has actually only aggravated this problem. We have been condemning policy in this hemisphere for many years and we have proposed more than once concrete solutions here. Unfortunately, Vivaldi systematically rejects these proposals, with all the negative consequences. Many carers or teachers, for example, want to give up their jobs. It is therefore not surprising that we feel the anger of French-speaking teachers today, here in our backyard. They came out here today and ended up on the street. They're absolutely right to take action. They are sending a strong signal to which this government must also listen. The teachers have had enough of ministers who do not listen to them. They do not want to be victims of antisocial policies that make them work for far too long. They want measures that take account of their hard work and they do not want to be beaten again and again by flexibility and even more flexibility. The same applies to the healthcare sector. The care workers deserve all our respect and admiration. They have been fighting for better working conditions for years and the government must now listen to their demands. They do not want new flexibility measures. After all, many carers and teachers are getting burn-outs or are no longer able to work through such flexibility measures. What kind of logic is this? Who are we kidding here? This is just incomprehensible. There was no consultation on this bill, that's what the people in the field say. Instead of imposing measures from above, the parties of this government should bring everyone around the table to discuss. It is also unacceptable that the employer should have the complete freedom to impose these flexibility measures without any counterweight from the trade union representatives. Staff must be able to oppose the introduction or extension of these measures. People have the last word on this and the trade unions must have their say. After all, it must remain fair and workable. You have really crossed a red line here that we believe should not be crossed. Finally, we refuse to give this government a blank cheque to extend these measures for a further three months. Parliament must have a say in a possible extension of the measures. It is about something that is essential for us and which has a direct impact on the lives of care staff and teachers. I will leave it at that, because I will still have enough opportunities to denounce this kind of policy. What I see here is that this government is all too eager to go along with the demands of management that increasingly want flexibility, while the number of long-term sick is increasing every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u85	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u86	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2455/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2455/4) The bill has 16 articles. The bill has 16 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip161x.u87	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. Colleagues, I was planning to interrupt work at about 1 p.m. We no longer have time to begin the next item, without having to interrupt in the meantime, knowing that there is also a committee meeting to be held during this noon hour. I therefore propose that we discontinue our work and continue with the oral questions, as foreseen in the agenda. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, February 10, 2022 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 10 February 2022 at 2.15 p.m.
