ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic740x.u1	The first question, No. 55025639C, belongs to Mr Gillissen. However, he is not yet present. We shall therefore proceed to the second question, No. 5502591C, by Mr De Caluwe. The third question, No. 5502603C, by Mrs Dierick, is on the same subject. However, it cannot be present and will read the answer. I shall therefore give the floor to Mr De Caluwe.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic740x.u2	Minister, the war in Ukraine has many consequences. He certainly also has an impact on our food strategy and on our agricultural sector. Energy prices are rising, but the same applies to cereal prices: prices of wheat, maize and barley. The prices of animal feed, which were already subject to a serious increase, are now rising again. Moreover, the crisis in Ukraine has a direct impact on seasonal work in our country, as 1,750 out of 67,000 seasonal workers come from Ukraine. In order to monitor the impact on the whole agri-food chain, you have decided to set up a task force, which we naturally welcome. It was the Farmers' Union that insisted on such an initiative. The task force wants to play briefly on the ball with regard to the impact on the agri-food chain. I have a whole series of questions, Minister. What's the exact setup? What is the status of the task force? How many members will that count? Is there an official chairman appointed? What concrete output is expected from the Task Force? Will all the links in the agri-food chain be represented in this? Will the Länder also be involved in the task force? Who decides which people will be in the task force? For how long will the task force be set up? What frequency is it gonna meet? On whose initiative? Is a working budget foreseen for the task force?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic740x.u3	Mr de Caluwe, I can announce that tomorrow, 29 March, I will organise a meeting with Mr Dermagne to set up a Task Force for Ukraine. Stakeholders from the many sectors affected by the situation in Ukraine were invited to this meeting. In addition, regional ministers for agriculture and all relevant administrations are invited. The aim is to bring together the country's driving forces to gather the necessary information and listen to the economic concerns of the sectors related to the conflict in Ukraine and its impact on raw materials and the agri-food goods and services markets. In particular, the aim will be to anticipate the economic impact of the conflict, develop strategies and draw up the necessary action plans. The intention is, of course, to start work quickly, because the rise and high volatility of the prices of agricultural raw materials, the concerns associated with the interruptions in the supply of some of these raw materials, the inflation of fertiliser and energy prices and the direct or indirect consequences of economic sanctions against Russia lead to a great deal of uncertainty and concern among the market participants in the Belgian agri-food sector. A first round question will be held at the meeting to give everyone the opportunity to express their concerns. A working method will also be established. A concrete plan of action will then be developed. The nuclear cabinet of 14 March 2022 instructed the National Bank of Belgium to analyse the economic impact of the war in Ukraine. The agri-food sector is also part of this. As far as food safety is concerned, the only potential effect is the fact that European standards are strict and that producers in other parts of the world are very often unable to meet these standards, for example Brazil and the United States. They could be an alternative source of supply, but they cannot guarantee that these European standards are met. If there is to be a temporary deviation from the standards, this must be done at European level rather than at national level. The BFSA, the FPS Economy and the FPS Public Health are aware of the potential shortage of certain ingredients in the short term due to the problems in Ukraine. The impact on food labelling has already been discussed with the sector. Together with the sector federations, an inventory of the problem will be made so that the European Commission can also be informed about the impact within Belgium. Products are often on the market in different Member States and legislation on labelling has been harmonised at European level in the past. All interested parties are therefore also in favour of a harmonised approach at European level as regards possible derogations from food labelling. They will urge the European Commission to do so. Ornamental products for export shall comply with the plant health requirements of the country of destination laid down to prevent the introduction of harmful organisms through the consignment into the territory of the country of destination. By means of the phytosanitary certificate, the competent authority of the exporting country shall confirm that the plants comply with these requirements. For the phytosanitary requirements, the BFSA relies on the legislation made available by the competent authorities of Uzbekistan on its website. The requirements vary according to the species and nature of the plants exported. For each consignment, following a request for a phytosanitary certificate, these requirements shall be verified for the plants in the consignment. The analysis showed that the phytosanitary certificate for the consignments in question could not be delivered. Through contacts with the competent authorities of Uzbekistan, the BFSA is still trying to find a solution for the shipments concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic740x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, and above all for your initiative and for the speed with which you are acting. The agricultural sector is under severe pressure, as I have said on a number of occasions. I am very concerned about that. I therefore welcome your initiatives for a more coordinated approach to this crisis, together with your colleague, Mr Dermagne, among others. As you rightly pointed out, this is a problem that needs to be addressed internationally. I believe it is essential that our agricultural and food sectors have sufficient raw materials and so on. For that we will certainly need the additional support of Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic740x.u5	Mrs Dierick also received an answer immediately. Her question No. 55026031C therefore lapses. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55026176C and No. Mrs Depraetere's 55026259C was postponed. Mr Gillissen is still not here. His question No. 55025639C therefore lapses. Question No 24, by Mr De Gucht (H-l 55025671C by Mrs Bonaventure and 55026178C by Mrs Reuter, to Mrs De Bleeker, are postponed.
