ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u2	Madam President, it was rightly mentioned yesterday in the Conference of Presidents, but I would also like to denounce it in the public sitting. I would like to ask you, on behalf of the Chamber, to send a message to the Vivaldi Government. After all, this vivaldi government does its name all the credit. When the colleagues on Wikipedia look at the composer Vivaldi, they will read that he was a frequent traveler. When I look at the list of absent ministers, I see that Prime Minister De Croo is in Congo together with Minister Kitir and Secretary of State Dermine. Minister Dermagne is in Geneva and Minister Van Peteghem is in Paris. Minister Van Quickenborne is in Luxembourg and Minister Clarinval is in the United States. Tinne Van der Straeten is also in Jordan. That is literally, Madam President, from Africa to America. The Himalayas aren't here yet, but it is up to the desert. Eight of the 15 ministers and one State Secretary are absent, Madam President. That is a lot and does not show too much respect for this house. I understand that there are often interesting conferences abroad, where there should be no lack of them. I would ask you, however, to suggest to the members of the government that they coordinate their agendas a little bit. They also have a bit to discuss with each other about their blocked files. There are enough digital possibilities today to show some respect and not to have nine absent excellences at a hearing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u3	I would like to thank Mr Pas for referring to my intervention yesterday at the Conference of Presidents, where I actually touched on this problem. Parliament still remains, in the first instance, the government's controller. However, we must, of course, look at this in a nuanced and correct way. I am thinking, for example, of the Prime Minister who is accompanying the trip to Congo. We have every respect for that and it must be possible. However, the numbers are getting a little excessive. I now have the opportunity to do so in plenary, so that it can be included in the report, which is not possible at the Conference of Presidents. I assume that Minister Gilkinet agrees that the government representative in the Conference of Presidents, Secretary of State Michel, confirmed yesterday that he would convey that message to the government. I can count on you, Minister Gilkinet, to tell the government that a certain balance must be maintained between our representatives abroad and those available to Parliament. Mr. Secretary, you are the victim today. You will have to answer about all the questions, which have so far been addressed to the Prime Minister. You think that you are Prime Minister at the moment, and you are absolutely entitled to do so. The fact that you may replace the Prime Minister is a highlight in the history of Ecolo-Green. Seriously, please give it to me effectively, because otherwise there is a risk of too much slackness.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u4	Madam President, I am here to answer Members' questions. It is important that the government is also present abroad. This is about the state visit to Congo, to which we will return, and about an important economic mission in the United States. There must be a balance, but in the corona period it was not always possible to go abroad. However, I am proud to belong to a government that can also show our colours abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u5	Mr Gildecroo, the regret the King expressed yesterday is nothing more than a moral evaluation. He of course did not make the moral evaluation of the role played by his ancestor Leopold II in Congo Free State. It was a system based on racism, discrimination and paternalism. There is no negationist in the Chamber in that regard, I suppose. However, Mr Gilkinet, we will soon hear that not everyone in this House will be satisfied. I recognize the different birds in Parliament by their whistles. After all, many parties want to open the door to what they call easy recovery payments. However, I can tell you that the Belgians, Flemings and Waalen, have already paid a lot of reparations over the past 60 years, in particular billions of euros in development cooperation, and that to a republic where, to date, corruption, personal enrichment and grabbling in the state treasury continues. Moreover, the political agenda of the Special Committee on Congo is determined by a number of setters. They call them the diaspora, I call them the Belgian version of Black Lives Matter. The monkey will come out of the sleeve after this summer, pleading for collective regularization, removing statues and everywhere signs to emphasize how badly the Belgians have dealt with (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u6	Mr Ravyts, your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u7	Minister, in the special committee on our colonial past we all work together, majority and opposition. We can also say that we work well together. We are working on a forward-looking story for our relations with Congo, Rwanda and Burundi. The King was right to express his regret at the exploitation, oppression and racism under the colonial regime. The Congolese certainly appreciate this, but also expect concrete actions from us for their and our common future. It is good that the government has just signed an agreement to involve young Congolese people in their culture from the past and the future. Does the government envisage any other action in the field of cultural development and cooperation other than the return of predatory art? How do you see the role of intergovernmental development cooperation? Will we achieve the 0,7% of our GNI? Since independence, the number of fully-fledged companies in Congo has decreased from 10,000 to 500. However, Belgian investors from the economy, health care, education, climate action, mobility and you name it, are ready to help the Congolese rebuild their country and give it a new future. In addition to the problem of corruption, however, the cruel, hellish, war in Eastern Congo must first be brought to an end. Don't forget, that war has been going on for 20 years. We Belgians are right to support Ukraine. What are we doing now to support the suffering of the Congolese people? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u8	Mr Briers, your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u9	Minister, King Philippe, speaking on behalf of the government, delivered a speech noted yesterday in the Congo. He recognized what all historians admit, namely that the colonial regime was based on unequal, unjustifiable relations, domination, racism. It has given rise to humiliations, to abuses. This speech was very far from that of his uncle Baudouin 62 years ago, at the time of independence. He had then praised the genius of Leopold II, he had praised the civilizing mission of Belgian colonization in the Congo. Philippe's speech is closer to that of Lumumba, who, in 1960, denounced colonization. It is known that Lumumba was the first Prime Minister of the Congo but he was assassinated with the active complicity of Belgium. In the King's speech, there is a lack of why, the primary goal of colonization. The primary goal was the economic exploitation of the Congolese people and their immense natural resources. Who took advantage of colonization? Not the Belgian population since Belgian workers were exploited by the same companies that overexploited Congolese workers and natural resources in the Congo. Those who have benefited from it are the big companies such as Société Générale, Umicore, Unilever and the rich Belgian families such as Boël, Solvay, Lippens, who are still in the firmament of wealth at home. Minister, will the government finally recognize this role of colonization? Will it help the government to fight the multinationals that (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u10	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday in Congo the King expressed his deepest regret about a particularly dark page in our history. That remorse yesterday is an important statement. The evils of the past must be named. The King has clearly done so. He said quite clearly and clearly that the colonial regime was based on exploitation and domination, that the regime was based on inequality and that the regime was characterised by paternalism, discrimination and racism. Colleagues, recognising that is important. Facing the truth of the past is important to be able to look to the future. For too long, past misdeeds were swept under the mat. For too long it has been denied that the inequality of the colonial regime lies at the root of racism and discrimination today and to this day in our country. That time is now over: done denying or looking away. That is also the task of the special committee here in Parliament. That's also the message the King brought yesterday. Minister, I have a question for you. What steps does your government intend to take with a view to further rapprochement and future cooperation with Congo?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u11	Madam President, Minister, an historic milestone was the expert's analysis of our King's speech. The King has expressed his deepest and sincere regret and publicly condemned the colonial regime. He was the first Belgian prince and he did so on the spot, and rightly so. On exploitation, racism, the way that society was organized, you can only regret and express regret. That remorse is essential to acknowledge this common past and to now focus on our common future. The work of the Congo Commission is ongoing in this Parliament. There are a number of recommendations that can be useful in future relations between our two countries. Let us be clear, the Belgians today are not to blame for that past. So today's Belgians can't pay for that past either. There can be no recovery payments for the Open Vld. The Belgian-Congolese relationship must be one of international partners, who have an important past together and who must also use this important historical link in the future. In what way will the government use a strengthened bilateral relationship with Congo, but also with the other colonies?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u12	Mr Minister, I am not guilty, you are not guilty and the Belgians of today are not guilty of Belgium's colonial past. That's right. But Belgium inherited a relationship with three other countries, based on racism, discrimination, structural violence, exploitation and domination, contrary to what the colonial propaganda for 140 years had always said about the so-called benefits of colonialism. Today, therefore, we have a collective responsibility to take on this delicate, difficult and disturbing legacy. We have to do it, as we do on a debt. That is why the speech delivered yesterday by the King in Kinshasa, endorsed by the entire government – and I welcome it – is a historic speech. It is historic because it allows Belgium to face its past without forgetting to look to the future. This is a pivotal moment for diplomatic relations between our two countries. It is also a pivotal moment for our relations with people of African origin who live in our country, including members of the Congolese, Rwandan and Burundian diasporas. As you know, the commission on the colonial past focuses on the responsibilities of the Church, the monarchy, the state and the economic world in the establishment of this violent and racist regime. It will also have to decide on reparations that will be necessary because they are essential to fight against Negrophobia and discrimination, which are still the victims of Afro-descendants in our country today. Yes, the filiation is very clear between these discriminations and Belgium's poorly assumed colonial past. Here are my questions, Minister. How will this past be taken into account in our future relations with the Congo in practice? How will Belgium be taken into account in the perception of the challenges faced by these Afro-descendants in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u13	Minister, during his state visit to Kinshasa, the King made statements, and we all know that when the King speaks, he does so on behalf of the government. He has acknowledged the historical crimes of colonialism there, which is good, and he has also expressed his deepest regret. We have also heard that there will be additional refunds of art. We take note of that. At the same time, we see that Members of the majority, particularly the Green Group, want to go much further. Open Vld says here today that they do not want any recovery payments, but at the same time there are green MEPs calling for the specific issue of historical excuses to be put on the table and further explored. We all know that apologies can give rise to claims for damages, not only from Congo, but also from Rwanda and Burundi. To be honest, I find it incomprehensible that parties who call themselves social, such as Ecolo, the PVDA-PTB and Green, are driving it at a time when the water is already on the lips of so many families in the country. We believe that today's citizens do not have to take the blame for the crimes committed by the Belgian elite and the royal family a century ago. I would like clarification, Minister. Has the government delegation in Kinshasa discussed recovery payments with the Congolese Government? Have any agreements been made on further pathways to recovery, restitution or rehabilitation, or should we regard the plea of the Head of State effectively as the end of the debate on the colonial past for Vivaldi?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say the answer on behalf of the Prime Minister, who is still staying in Kinshasa and travelling back tonight, with a view to tomorrow's Council of Ministers, Friday. At the invitation of Congolese President Félix Tshisekedi, the King and the Queen are on an official visit to the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The King and Queen are currently staying in the capital, Kinshasa. Later this week and weekend, they will also visit Lubumbashi, Congo's second largest city, and Bukavu, in the eastern part of the country. The Royal Couple is actually accompanied by the Prime Minister and my colleagues, the Minister for Development Cooperation and the Secretary of State for Science Policy. I think it's important. There is no doubt that this is a historic visit. It is not only the first time King Filip has visited Congo, it is twelve years since his father and predecessor, Albert II, attended the ceremonies of 50 years of Congolese independence in Kinshasa. The visit is long awaited. It was already planned for the celebration of 60 years of independence, two years ago, but by corona and also by the war in Ukraine, the official visit has been postponed several times. It is also a historical visit by the words spoken yesterday on the esplanade of the People's Palace in Kinshasa by King Philippe, words that many of you point out in their questions. The King has in fact expressed his "deeper regrets for the wounds of the past" and he has not hesitated to describe this past in terms that are clearer, without any ambiguity. Nor did he hide the fact that many Belgians in the Congo had given the best of themselves and sincerely loved the Congolese and their country, but to add with clarity: "The colonial regime was also based on paternalism, discrimination and racism, exploitation and domination." The King has spoken these words with the full support of the government and the Prime Minister, with whom he has spoken. First of all, expressing deepest regret is much braver than an easy sorry culture, hoping to be able to change the page quickly. By the way, those words of regret about King Filip should not be surprised. They build on the June 2020 royal letter to President Tshisekedi. The King already emphasized that the Belgian-Congolese history consists not only of common realizations, but also of painful episodes. He then described that there are atrocities that continue to weigh on our collective memory. Secondly, and this is also a key element of the debate, the Prime Minister was able to observe, during his discussions – in particular with the President, the Prime Minister and the Archbishop of the Congo – that the Congolese did not formally request excuses, but that they wanted us to write a new chapter together and look to the future. For example, as the King also pointed out, cooperation is envisaged in the further democratization and stabilization of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, as well as in the fight against corruption. To write this new chapter together, it is necessary to reconcile with the past. The words of the King, supported by the government, must be understood in this context. Finally, the government and the King do not want to interfere in the parliamentary process currently under way in this Chamber, namely the work of the Special Committee on Colonial Past. The hearings are currently under way. Political debates on this will take place in the autumn. And at the end of this year, the committee will be able to finalize its conclusions. The government is looking forward to the committee's final report. On behalf of the government, I want to support the work of the special commission on our colonial past. I think this is a complementary act to the one that the King put on our behalf yesterday during his visit to the Congo.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u15	Minister, thank you, in particular, for meeting the time limit.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u16	Minister, at a time when millions of Belgians are bleeding financially, as we have heard from the green bird in Vivaldi, we are dealing with collective inheritances and collective responsibilities that should lead to recovery, read about recovery payments. The first offer has already been made today. A Congolese politician, who has still taken part in the elections, is offering $25,000 billion. The first offer is already here. Who's offering more? I can tell you that with the Flemish interest there will never be recovery payments. Jamais.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for showing respect from the government for the work of the special committee. We will perform our task there in a dignified manner. I have heard very well that the government will participate in the whole democratisation process, in all actions against corruption and in development aid. For me, however, the fundamental question remains what the government will do to cooperate with the Congolese for the conclusion of that murderous war in Eastern Congo which has been going on for 20 years. You will not give me an answer to that question today, but I expect a response to that in the coming months, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u18	Mr Minister, the great misfortune of the Congo, in the end, is to be such a rich country with such a rich basement, which stirs up so many lusts. We know that 60 years ago, the Mining Union – now Umicore – organized the secession of Katanga so that it could continue to exploit this region. Today, multinationals and powers continue to destabilize eastern Congo in order to exploit its gigantic wealth. That is the misfortune of the Congo. I think that if there are responsibilities to point at, they are those of today's multinationals, like those of the past. I repeat that Umicore has greatly enriched itself thanks to colonial exploitation and continues to make record profits today. It is not normal for such companies to be able, both in the past and today, to exploit a country with no accountability. It is these societies that must be pointed out, not the Belgian population.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Ladies and gentlemen, for Vooruit, it must not be left to the remorse. Words are important, but so are deeds. A first important step is to adopt a draft law on the return of stolen goods here in Parliament next week. In addition, important work is also being done in Parliament through the Special Committee on Colonial Past. That research is very important, it is about truth finding, research and recognition of our past. That is also what the experts have asked us to take responsibility for. That will be our next step, and that is where Parliament must achieve results for us. We're all responsible for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The historic words of regret were expressed in the heart of Congo by our Head of State. Now it's time for the future. We must continue to normalise our relationship with Congo. This journey was an important first step for that. We need to focus on academic and cultural exchanges with Congo, for example in relation to this refund. We must support Congo together, in a relationship with equal partners. There are plenty of issues, namely the rule of law, humanitarian, military and military issues, as you will certainly confirm - in terms of environmental management and protection. There is a lot of work to be done, work to be done with a view to a common future, not by looking to the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answers. I said that the Belgians of today are not guilty, individually, of the colonial past - which must not release them from the present. Today, people of African origin are discriminated against in our country. There is a very clear link with Belgium's ill-understood colonial past, as pointed out by Unia in his 2022 report on discrimination against Afro-descendants. This speech is a step in the right direction, but it must be translated into concrete action. It is a question of reparations, and they are not just financial. No one said they should be just financial. Let us not forget two countries, Rwanda and Burundi, which, too, have been subjected to our colonial regime and which also have the right to receive regrets; and why not one day, an apology for the three countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u22	Minister, no citizen of this country is waiting for reparations, and even the ordinary Congolese people have other problems in a country in civil war. However, there are still people in this House who are in charge of this. For some, it will never be enough. Colleagues, let us draw the necessary conclusions from the findings of the Special Committee for the Colonial Past. Minister, you say you respect that committee, but do you know when the debates on the return of art and on excuses begin? They start tomorrow, when the government submitted its bill on art refund last month, when the government has already decided that there will be no excuses but regrets and the King concluded the entire debate on the past yesterday. Colleagues of the Committee on the Colonial Past, let us once again look at the problems facing citizens today. Let us stop inciting false feelings of guilt about the past, and instead focus on a new, full and equal partnership with Congo.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u23	Minister, I wonder how many mailboxes there are in the village where you live. I've been told that you live in Assesse, with 7,000 inhabitants. Then there should be about 3,000 mailboxes in your village. There are more inhabitants all over the world than mailboxes. There's only one exception, and those are tax havens. There are more mailboxes there than residents. One of the tax havens is Delaware in the United States. According to Le Vif's research, you do not own SNCB's rolling stock. Today it appears that those mailboxes in Delaware own more than 2,000 locomotives and wagons of SNCB. So you're not the Minister of Mobility, you're the Minister of Rent. For years, the Belgian Railways have sold their heritage and sold it quickly to a number of trusts in Delaware and elsewhere, to rent it back very quickly for a lot of money. This is not only an insane construction, it is also very expensive, because according to Le Vif it would have caused EUR 1.1 billion of SNCB's debt. That is one third of SNCB's historical debt. In this way, public money is squandered, private funds are spent and all in a short-term logic to cash in on sales as quickly as possible. Mr Secretary, I have two questions for you: what material is in the hands of which trusts exactly? The investigation seems rather untransparent. One does not seem to want to share too much data. Which parts of SNCB are now in the hands of foreign nationals? How much does one pay for that? What will you do to stop these contracts and ensure that SNCB (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u24	Madam President, Minister, this morning we heard in the press that SNCB does not seem to own much of its own rolling stock. It's about wagons and locomotives. And it goes far beyond just rolling stock. Apparently, it does not own crucial elements and infrastructure, such as buildings, railway lines, electronic communications equipment and different stations. The real owner turns out to be a shady firm, a trust in a North American tax haven, namely in Delaware. If I may believe the press, and I have every reason to do so, in the period 2001-2003, under the purple-green government of a Guy Verhofstadt, the man of the sale-and-lease-back, who sold almost everything that could be sold, part of SNCB's assets were sold to a shadowy partner in a North American tax haven. Those assets were sold in order to rent them back afterwards through a leasing contract. Eight leasing contracts would have been concluded and they would still run until 2031, 2034, 2035. Until then, the taxpayer is bound by that. Why is that? Who locked that up? As always, SNCB and Infrabel do not communicate. I trust that you, as Minister for Mobility, will have done your job this morning and been on an information trip at both railway companies. Who's that shady partner? Who's that trust in that North American tax haven? What financial arrangements have been made (...)?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u25	Madam President, Minister, the trains we use are American trains. That's great news! But I will go straight to the questions because the time allocated to the questions is very short. Mr Minister, the full clarity must be made on this issue, especially since we in Belgium are fighting tax fraud. Through what we hear here, we are encouraging it through the State of Delaware. Can you give us details of these transactions, of these sales, the details of these contracts? How much material does this concern and under what conditions is the same material then leased to SNCB? Since it is indeed re-rented to the SNCB! If we didn't, we wouldn't even have trains! What is the impact on corporate finances? You say you asked the current management about the status of SNCB's contractual commitments in these trusts. How did you get back? It is important to know whether you have returns or not. What actions are you going to take? You know I don't want to talk about vision, but about action. Vision 2040 is a view of the mind. I want shares. Minister, I am counting on you to obtain further information. Excuse me for sometimes being hard on you when I talk about the Brussels-Arlon line, which is the line to go back in time, but since the Americans are the owners, I understand that as the federal state minister, you have nothing to explain to them, nothing to say to them and nothing to expect from them! I thank you, but hope that the line to go back in time will become a line that will be more easily taken because it will have trains at higher speeds, before the end of this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u26	Madam President, Mr Arens, I assure you that trains continue to run between Brussels and Luxembourg, and we are working to make them drive even faster in the future. The legacy of the last century that SNCB has left us bears witness to the way we have come since then. Remember the fight waged in the early 2000s during the first Rainbow government to shed light on the accounts and financial flows of SNCB and the resistance on all sides that had to be faced in order to achieve this. It is thanks to this work that the detailed montages by Le Vif today are part of a past. The practices described in this article began in the 1980s and lasted until the mid-2000s. Even if this is not actually illegal, it is far from optimal in terms of sound management of public funds or transparency. The Court of Auditors also pointed this out in several reports, in particular in 2008. You will find a lot of information in that. The government must set a good example at every level, especially in the field of taxation. This also applies, of course, to public undertakings, such as SNCB and Infrabel. Fortunately, as I said, these practices belong to the past. These contracts are part of my legacy as Minister of Mobility. I am thinking of the recurring lack of maintenance of the network and equipment in the past, the chronic under-investment of the state in SNCB and Infrabel, the unsatisfactory accessibility of too many trains or stations, all these things that are changing. Today, through this debate, I invite you to ask two questions. The first is what these practices that we are condemning mean. The answer is obvious. For far too many years, the Belgian State has lost interest in the train, leaving the company to its fate, getting too little financial resources and ultimately not getting the resources to modernise and meet the challenges of today. There are 11 million of us who now have to bear the consequences of that legacy. From my first day as Minister, I've been working on this and I'm trying to work this out. To achieve this, I can count on two companies, the SNCB and Infrabel, and the support of the entire government. This brings me to the second question: how can we remedy these shortcomings that we all denounce? Today, the practices that Vif journalists remind us of no longer exist. The times have changed, and it's very happy. The accounts of SNCB and Infrabel are carefully examined by the public authorities. In addition, the former communicates annually about its past operations. You can find all the information you want in his accounts. Yes, Mr. Arens, we have a 20-year vision of what rail mobility should become with clear objectives. We are in the process of finalizing the two future management contracts - SNCB's public service contract and Infrabel's performance contract - which will allow these fundamental companies to deploy according to a precise roadmap and transparently in their management. We have already refinanced them to the tune of more than 1.7 billion euros since the beginning of the legislature - and this is not over. Yes, they are deeds! Today, we are 11 million in demand of mobility to meet the challenges and challenges of this century. As Minister of Mobility, I am working on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u27	Minister, our country has a problem when large private companies avoid tax through tax havens. Then Panama Papers are written about it and then the country stands on stilts. However, this is not about large private companies, but about public companies using tax avoidance. This undermines the government's own financing mechanism. I would like a clear answer from the government as to whether or not such mechanisms will be excluded in the future for any patrimony. I would also like to have an answer to the question about which parts of SNCB are included in which trusts. I have told you that there is little transparency on this, although as a minister you should take care of it. You must tell us which locomotives, which stations, which railways belong to which trusts and how long we (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u28	Thank you for your answer, Minister, but I have heard very few specific names or numbers, although I have asked for them. It is a fact that the control of crucial infrastructure was given away to a shady American trust in a tax haven. This is due to the policy of a former purple-green government, which describes Flemish Interest as a kind of back room policy. Everything was arranged in silence and light, after which there was not too much communication about it for 20 years, so that the taxpayer does not know what his taxpayers' money is used for. The taxpayer, who is still paying for it today, who has huge bills and moans under the high tax burden, must look forward to his tax money being passed on to a tax haven in North America. Flemish interest thinks that this is a disgrace.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u29	Mr Minister, thank you for your different answers and, in particular, for the answer on line 162. But you don't have much time; you only have two years left! Do you know under which government these operations with Delaware were carried out? Under Verhofstadt, where, by chance, the minister in charge of SNCB was none other than Isabelle Durant. I am therefore surprised that you do not remember that period. As the chairman of the committee is present today – and as we have very little time here, we see every week – I would like to say to him that I would like us to hold hearings in committee to shed light on this issue so that we can know what the costs to SNCB, the state and the taxpayers of this operation to promote a tax haven like Delaware are.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u30	Madam Chair, Minister, we finally received the Envisa study that followed a court decision. This much-anticipated study focuses on the impact of overflights on health, pollution and noise. Good news, the study is considered rather satisfactory while the previous one was totally inadequate. You will present it at the next consultation platform at the end of June. Isn't it a little late since both the press and the mayors and the associations were aware of it? Everyone already knows the content. That is why I would like to point out some very interesting points, starting with the fact that the study considers that, apart from the Federal Ombudsman, no one controls the legality of air operations. It's a little scary. With regard to wind standards, the study agrees with our position that small gusts below five knots should not be considered. That's a good thing. The study also states that with regard to the choice between runways 01 and 07 for landings, the rules that define decision-making on this choice are deliberately vague. It's pretty scary. Finally, with regard to the use of Runway 01, it is indeed found to be abusive for a variety of technical reasons, but also because the flights are lower and therefore cause much more nuisance. This is for study. Then there are recommendations on which everyone agrees, such as updating noise quotas. Aircraft have evolved, aircraft are new, yet these quotas have not been adapted since 2010. This is something that can be undertaken. Moreover, concerning the abolition of night flights in favour of which 14 associations have signed (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u31	Mrs Reuter, as I had committed myself to it, the results of the impact study on the noise impact of flights entrusted to the Envisa specialized office were communicated to the parties within the time limits set, i.e. Wednesday, 1 June. This is a much more comprehensive study than the previous one. What lessons can we learn from this? The first is that unless you move the airport or drastically reduce your attendance, there is no miracle structural solution that would satisfy everyone. Each scenario makes happy or unhappy. Secondly, beyond the development of alternative rail solutions to the aircraft, which I am working on for medium distances, it is possible to quickly identify ad hoc solutions that will reduce – at least partially – the nuisances suffered by the residents of the airport. Since taking office, I have been working to identify these sustainable improvements for all over-the-board residents. To achieve this, work must involve all stakeholders. In addition to Envisa's study, I have taken several initiatives in this direction, the usefulness of which is also validated by the study. What am I going to do with this study? It will be published very soon on the website of the Mobility SPF, as soon as it has been translated. We are studying in more detail the different scenarios defined by Envisa. These scenarios will soon be presented to the other members of the federal majority – without which I cannot do anything about this – as well as to the members of the concertation platform, of which you are part as the mayor of Waterloo. I fully understand that those affected by aircraft noise problems find the time too long to deal with a problem that is more than 30 years old. My will is not to give false hopes or propose solutions without tomorrow. I insist: I am working to try to find a lasting and equitable solution for all the residents concerned. It is not easy, and it is not my predecessors, some of whom you know very well, who will contradict me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u32	Nobody ever said it was easy! That's clear. On the other hand, solutions that are unanimous can be taken immediately and can already relieve. I am thinking of an independent supervisory and sanctioning authority and the enforcement of court decisions. In addition, recommendations can be made. Minister, I insist. Do not give the impression that this debate will be convened in a platform which, as we know, will produce results very late! It is crucial to opt for solutions that are now possible. The recommendations are here. The report confirms this; they can be implemented. I therefore urge you to do so: implement the solutions to appease the residents! It's essential. Do not wait until the end of the legislature!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u33	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, "We have succeeded in a coup de force!" Here's how the Deutsche Bahn, the German railways, described the completely crazy success of the nine-euro train subscription per month that the government set up to fight inflation, against expensive living and against pump prices. In Germany as in Belgium, we are hesitant today to take his car so full is expensive. We all meet people who explain to us that they stay at home, that it is over to spend a day at the sea or in the Ardennes because it has become impeccable. And what to say when you hear workers who have to take leave because they can no longer fill up their vehicle at the end of the month. Colleagues, in exceptional times, exceptional measure. In Germany, the country of the car, the government took a strong, radical, social and environmental step. From June until the end of August, the ticket for regional trains is 9 euros and, with this ticket, the Germans can also travel by metro and bus. Success has been at the rendezvous. From the first weekend, young people, families, seniors, all social categories, rushed on the package. Unfavoured social groups travel for the first time to previously inaccessible German cities and regions at reasonable prices. Proof that the ticket price is a determinant of the right to mobility for all. Proof that behaviours can change when they are helped without being punished! Mr Minister, the freezing of SNCB's ticket prices was obviously a good thing, but do you really think that it will be enough to respond to the social and climate emergency that we have to deal with? Do you really think that if we stop there, each family will be able to enjoy a holiday this summer? Should we not at last guarantee every Belgian the right to discover his own country, his own region, his countryside and his coast? Minister, are you considering a comparable measure in Belgium? What measures are you planning to take to allow middle- and low-income families to move on for one or more weekends this summer?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u34	Mrs Bonaventure, thank you for this question which highlights the importance of the train in this period of high prices of fuel at the pump and also in view of the energy challenge. The German Government's initiative in this area is absolutely worthy of interest, and I welcome its success. For the sake of understanding, however, I stress that it concerns only secondary lines, not the whole network, and that it also raises questions in terms of organisation and capacity. Nevertheless, it has the merit of existing and serving as a test for the European Member States. You will always find me in the ranks of those who support an attractive and progressive pricing policy, in order to reserve the train an even more central place in mobility in Belgium and to support all those who struggle to fill their reservoir - especially for several months. As you pointed out, we have made several decisions in this direction. A first step was to freeze ticket prices, which should normally have followed inflation in July. Although SNCB itself suffers a lot from the indexation of wages and the cost of energy, passengers did not have to pay for this. This is a commitment of EUR 82 million, included in the 1.7 billion that I regularly stress. In addition to this one-off measure, I would point out that the SNCB proposes several advantageous tariff formulas: groups, elderly people, those who receive an increased allowance benefit from substantial reductions. Similarly, children under 12 years of age travel free of charge. For workers, there is a system of third-party fees, which has been extended and which is based on the payment of the subscription by the employer. In addition, weekend tickets and passes are also available. In addition, SNCB has just launched the Duo ticket, which allows you to travel two times for the price of a seat. Finally, it is preparing other similar initiatives for this summer. More than ever, the train is a solution for the climate, for our economy, as well as for the portfolio of our fellow citizens, and one of the levers to be used to get out of the current energy crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answers and your various reminders. The success of the German experience leads us to draw at least two conclusions. First of all, it is not just a demand but a social and environmental need for mobility that we must respond to. Secondly, if the German network has sometimes saturated last weekend, it is the signal that we need to provide substantial means to meet this need, human, material and financial resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u36	Minister, how do we protect people from global warming? How do we ensure that food prices do not rise further and that people live at a time when fuel prices are very high at the end of the month? Those are a lot of questions that I would like to put to you in one file. The answer to these questions is not to take symbolic climate action. We have it in our country today. Today we have climate measures in our country that are bad for the climate and make food and fuel more expensive. These are, of course, first generation biofuels. It is about wheat, soya and palm oil that we are running in our dieseltank today. That is, of course, quite incomprehensible. These products are harvested today in countries far from here, where they cut down jungle for them. They'll be brought to us by ship and end up in our tank. I understand that organisations like the Bond call for better Environment and Greenpeace to stop doing that. In addition to the environmental impact, there is also a social impact. After all, it costs our families about 5 euros for a full tank. At a time when there is war on our continent and food prices are under pressure, we must also be concerned about that. We are not going to let our families pay for symbolic climate policy, are we, Minister? Our local farmers do not want that, only some multinationals on the other side of the world make a lot of money from this. Come on, it's very clear: stop it. Focus on effective climate policy, on matters that really protect us from drought and floods. What is the government's position on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u37	Mr Verduyckt, I will reply on behalf of Mrs Khattabi, who is ill. The war in Ukraine has a major impact on international markets, including on agricultural crops. Extreme weather conditions worldwide also have an impact on the availability and price of such crops. Several of these raw materials, including palm, soya and sunflower oil, are used in the food industry, but many of them are also used as raw materials for biofuels or in the agro-industry. According to Mrs Khattabi, the current context, resulting in increased raw materials on world markets, underlines the absurdity of current policies. The use of food crops for the production of biofuels has become more ethical and economically unsustainable than ever before. First of all, we need to put an end to state aid for such practices. Minister Khattabi calls for a general ban on the use of biofuels based on raw materials that can also be used for food purposes, in order to achieve our European targets in the field of renewable additions to fossil fuels for the transport sector. The transposition of the European RED II Directive is a concrete lever for this government to take steps in this direction. Studies show that this will also have a positive impact on the price at the pump for the consumer. Negotiations at federal level are under the direction of Minister Van der Straeten. Minister Khattabi has already made clear her ambition. Last Thursday I defended the same position in the Council of Mobility Ministers in Luxembourg. So we're on the same page.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u38	Minister, it is indeed absurd to put food in our tank today. Europe is abandoning this obligation. I also see a lot of countries around today stopping mixing into our fuel tank, because they know it doesn't work. Ladies and gentlemen, don't let the lobby of the fuel sector fool you. For them, that's just a green check mark they can put out to say they're doing something for the environment, but they know it doesn't work. We need an effective climate policy that protects us from what we already see in our regions today, namely drought. We also see floods in our regions and in my own province. We need climate policy for that, but not symbolic climate policy that makes our fuel and food more expensive and doesn't help the climate a centimetre ahead.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u39	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the effects of climate change create risks for the financial sector. That's not new. We've known that for a long time. The reason for my question is the National Bank's warning this week to the banks for loans from owners of poorly isolated houses. People in poorly isolated homes often find it difficult, they are already the biggest victims of rising energy prices. Now they are put in the box again of high risk of default. We can all imagine how the banks will deal with this and how they will cover themselves against these risks. With Green we have always said that climate transition will be social, or it will not be. The message of the National Bank is once again a wake-up call. Once again, it is a sign that we must be very vigilant in ensuring that climate change does not make the gap between rich and poor even wider than it already is today. With its monetary policy, the National Bank can direct banks in the way they handle loans, specifically with loans for renovations of older houses. I asked that question to the governor of the National Bank. He replied that the National Bank should be politically neutral and not ideologically oriented. He considers my question an ideological question. I fundamentally disagree with that. Climate policy is not a matter of the left or right, climate policy is a matter of common sense. Minister, do you agree with me that banks also have a responsibility in organising a fair climate policy that no one leaves behind, that banks also have a role to play in upgrading all the poorly isolated houses in our country? Are you prepared to discuss this with the finance minister and with the National Bank?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u40	Mr Vanbesien, the financial sector does indeed play an important role in achieving our climate objectives. Among other things, we must put an end to our support for the fossil fuel sector and apply the polluter pays principle. We must also use the levers to ensure that the transition to a climate-neutral society is fair. The financial sector is also exposed to the risks of climate change and its impact on our infrastructure, economy and society. Strengthening the resilience of public finances and the financial system in the light of climate change is rightly one of the European Commission's priorities. In the light of the climate crisis, our country had to strengthen its risk analysis capacity. On a proposal from Minister Khattabi, this government decided last year to set up a coordination body for risk analysis and the assessment of the climate crisis. That body will carry out a holistic and multidisciplinary analysis of the risks to our country and report to the National Security Council. As a result of the climate crisis, our society will be faced with various and large-scale shocks. Extreme weather conditions, uncertainty in the international value chain, pressures on the financial sector or other, different shocks may reinforce each other or occur at the same time. In addition to an analysis of such shocks, we must also systematically take into account the vulnerability and level of exposure of specific population groups and sectors to such shocks. The extra attention to vulnerability and exposure in the context of our risk analysis is essential. The most vulnerable groups or sectors should not pay the worst price for the effects of climate change or our climate policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You touched it yourself, it is not just the banks that have responsibility in a just climate policy. The government also has a crushing responsibility in this regard. But there is another obstacle: the fragmented powers. VAT on solar panels and heat pumps is a federal competence, isolating the houses is a regional competence. Wind energy at sea is federal, wind energy on land is Regional. This fragmentation means that we have four climate ministers, each with their own climate plan and each with their own climate ambition, who do not agree on who to do what and how to divide it. It can't go on like this. One may stand here, but that cannot continue. And if they cannot come to workable agreements themselves, we will have to appoint a federal referee, who (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u42	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I was thinking of asking my question to the Minister of Finance. I hope that he did not run away from her and that he did not intend to exercise his right to silence. You know that in tax matters, the right to silence is very badly seen, even worse than in criminal law, since in criminal law, a bank robber can use it. In tax matters, the right to silence is something extremely sensitive, something that you are going to have to answer from now on, if I have understood the preliminary draft which is being prepared for ten years. Ten years, these are the deadlines announced by the Minister to be able to question a taxpayer presumed to be in good faith! We go for certain deadlines from three to ten years! The taxpayer will have to be in some psychological form to expect tax control for ten years, especially if he is, I believe, bordering. Indeed, things are not yet very clear. That is one of the reasons why I am asking you this question. Mr Secretary of State, can you clarify all the words that have been put forward in the press in recent days? What about the complex declaration – but in tax matters everything is obviously complex – which would allow a cross-border check (for example, a Belgian living on the border and working abroad) to be carried out within extended periods of time? Are these deadlines not disproportionate to the measures that the tax administration should take in relation to major fraud? Are we not faced with a situation where the State is abusing its rights, as we already had the feeling of living it in some form of case law, the case law of Antigone? Is there no need to pay attention to such a drift? Secretary of State, could you explain these concepts and perhaps tell us what rights will be reserved for taxpayers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u43	Mr Secretary of State, the fight against tax and social fraud continues unabated. This is not only stated in the government agreement, it is also discussed in the second action plan in the nuclear cabinet and approved by the Ministerial Committee on the fight against tax and social fraud, of which the seven majority parties are part. For CD&V, that's justice. Fraud harms millions of Belgians and entrepreneurs who pay their taxes and social contributions correctly. That plan indeed extends research and attack periods, but it does extend to international and complex tax files that take much more time. We are doing this not only in the interest of the tax authorities, in order to be correct and correct, but also in the interest of the taxpayer, to give him time and space to exchange the necessary data, to make his comments and to express objections. Correct and balanced procedures lead to fair taxation. It's a good thing you're working with the Minister of Finance to deal with residential fraud. People who stay here, who work here and who use our services here may also pay a fair contribution. The coalition agreement is clear, the budget is clear and this second action plan is clear. Appointments are appointments. When will this action plan be transposed into legislation? How is the fight against residential fraud further addressed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against fraud is effectively a common fight against fraudsters conducted by the entire government. The government agreement foresees that the fight against tax and social fraud will generate €200 million in 2021, €400 million in 2022, €700 million in 2023 and €1,000 million in 2024. The ambitions are high and the efforts must follow. The Court of Auditors has recently found that our two anti-fraud action plans are making progress in several respects. The second action plan, including the strengthening of the tax administrative procedure you are reporting on, has already been approved by all parties within the government at the end of March. The draft texts to which you refer are intended to implement this political decision and are currently under discussion in the government. In this context, a consultation of stakeholders is also taking place and, as always, their comments will be taken into account. The principles that have already been approved are immutable and cannot be changed, an agreement being what it is: an agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, the objective of the tax administrative procedure is to achieve the correct taxation of taxes. That is only fair to anyone who is honest or hopes to make a contribution. Just to ensure that fair contribution, Mr Verherstraeten, was also effectively taken by myself this week in the fight against residence fraud, in cooperation with finance minister Van Peteghem. Municipal authorities can now automatically register foreigners in the foreign register. This will make the fight against residence fraud by the inspection services more effective. In this sense, the RB fits perfectly into the second action plan against fraud. This includes approved projects on residence fraud and will also be implemented. I remind everyone once again that fraud is a crime. The fight against fraud is therefore an important policy line of this government. The adopted action plans, like all political decisions, will continue to be discussed within the government, with a view to the correct charging of taxes and fair contributions by all. I don't think anyone wants an asocial policy. Whether we are Christian Democrats, Liberals, Socialists or environmentalists, I think we all believe that everyone has to do their part. No one can stay on the edge of the road. Whether we are talking about the small fish that behaves antisocially or about the very large fish that behaves antisocially, the fight against fraud is particularly important for both. All parties in this government have indicated this on several occasions. This is also particularly clear for all those who are looking at the action plan. I assume that the government will also effectively implement what we have decided in this regard, namely to ensure that the fight against fraud is as ambitious as possible. Everyone must do what is expected of him or her. Everyone has to do their part and we will do what is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u45	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. There is an agreement in principle that all parties around the table have taken, that of combating tax fraud. There's no doubt about that. The means to combat this tax fraud require adjustments. Some things seem disproportionate to us and the MR group will have particular attention to this. We do not want to break the spirit of entrepreneurship, we do not want to discourage small entrepreneurs or small SMEs who wish to develop activities outside the country and who would now be considered fraudsters. They should be justified for ten years when a fraudster should only be justified for seven years. We will therefore pay attention to preserving the rights of these small self-employed people, those who work and want to produce wealth for the country by paying their fair taxes. We do not want a strong state with the weak and a weak state with the strong, which does not fight against real tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u46	Mr Secretary of State, your answer was very clear. So there is not only agreement on principles, there is also agreement on figures and deadlines in complex tax dossiers. The fight against tax fraud continues. Fair taxation, with correct social contributions, is something completely different from Stasi practices, words from a party chairman of the majority I was able to read in the newspaper this morning. That was inappropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u47	Minister, last summer you made the fine announcement that our patients could go to the psychologist for 11 euros. You have created a lot of support for this, especially from patients for whom the financial threshold to therapy weighs heavily. You've also created expectations for the psychologists. But, Minister, that was purely an announcement policy, because it became clear very shortly after that announcement that it was just a pilot project, which would not start in September but in January, and that would only last until 2023. You have created expectations in patients, but also in psychologists. False expectations. However, you need the psychologists to bring your project to a successful conclusion. As you announced, you needed a 3,000. According to my information, 1,200 have signed in until today. That's not even half of 3,000. Minister, announcement policy is dangerous. It's something mental health care certainly can't have. It could miss that as a toothache. The need is high, but I miss your urgency, and our psychologists and psychiatrists say that one out of two young people cannot be treated correctly. You announced in the government agreement that you would bring a master plan for mental health care. We're running out of time. Don't get me wrong, Minister, we are on the same side, on the side of the psychologists, on the side of the patients who need it. I'd like to work with you on your pilot project and your master plan. Can you tell me how many psychologists and clinical orthopedagogics have signed up for your convention so far? When's the master plan coming up?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u48	Madam President, Mrs Depoter, we have indeed launched a very important reform. This concerns, among other things, the fact that people should be able to consult a psychologist for little money. Much more than that, we actually want to develop antennae throughout society, among community workers, in OCMW's, in general practitioners, to come to people with problems and help them. They're people who might never find their own way. Because this is a real cultural change and a very thorough reform, this has taken time. That's right. You're asking how many people got into the convention today. Today, 9 June 2022, there are 1.917. That's a 50% increase in a month's time. This indeed shows that it was necessary to decide two months ago to speed up the process, to address a number of bottlenecks and to better inform and communicate with the field of clinical psychologists and orthopedagogues. So I can answer your question that 1,917 people have entered the convention. This means that we will be fully rolled out by October 2022. That's in a year's time. Quite specifically, this means 19,500 hours available within that cheap offer on a weekly basis. Since 1 January 2022, 38 000 people have already entered these routes. So 38.000 people are already included in well-organised and cheap psychological assistance in the first line thanks to the new convention. Is that an end point? No, you know I'm still developing important investments in childhood and child psychiatry. That is not what we are going to talk about today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u49	That is how you can see that you are better off with an announcement policy and that you are better off with the sector. You worked out a convention 2.0 in February 2022 and because there weren't enough psychologists, then there were 1,000, you organized a new webinar to ask psychologists to join that new convention. Last year in July, you made an announcement that made it seem like you had solved everything. That is a pity, because that has kept the patients waiting for almost a year. The psychologists had to deal with patients with whom you had created that expectation for a year. I welcome the fact that you are announcing other reforms, Minister, but do not do so in projects but in structural terms, embedded in public health. Then our patients will be really helped.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u50	Madam Secretary, the labour market is on fire. So thousands of vacancies are not filled. Our economy and productivity are being slowed down. For many companies, it becomes more difficult every day. Future plans are being put away, growth scenarios just as, because entrepreneurs simply don't find suitable staff anymore. SMEs even stop because they can no longer guarantee production or their service. It's very tragic, especially when there's potential. It is a huge problem for our country and our economy. It is also wrong, because we have a very low level of activity and low productivity compared to many European countries. A burning labour market requires strong measures. The current situation really needs to be addressed, because it will not disappear by itself. We will not be able to put out the fire with a garden hose, so to speak. For weeks and months, as liberals, we have been calling for activation, a workable flexibility in the labour market, a serious support for the inactive, a reform of pensions, the removal of barriers to work, such as cheaper childcare for people working, more quality jobs, the possibility of reducing the burden on pensioners if they earn some extra income. It is a good thing that we will soon finally be able to vote on the employment deal, which must be implemented as a matter of urgency. However, let it be clear that this is a starting point and not an end point, because I have always learned that one has to create a buffer when it is possible for difficult times. Now there is still enough work to be done, and we urgently need to cash it in. What are you waiting for, Madam Minister of Pensions and Minister of Labour and Economy? We need to find solutions quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, the government is very serious about the problem of the bottlenecks in the professions and about mobility in the labour market. In response to this, my colleague, Minister for Work Dermagne, has taken important measures. Firstly, there is the possibility of jobseekers undergoing training to combine regional contributions with their unemployment benefits. Secondly, there is a premium for jobseekers who fill in a bottleneck job in other regions. The law on various provisions on work, currently under discussion in the government at second reading, contains an important chapter on the fight against bottleneck professions. The law provides for supervision of the cause of bottleneck professions in the different sectors. In concrete terms, the sectoral social partners will have to draw up a list of bottleneck professions every two years and report on the causes of this cut-off with measures to remedy them. An inter-federal platform has also been established, as the main competences of the Regions in the field of bottleneck professions and interregional mobility are in the hands of the Regions. An inter-federal platform analyses the various proposals. As a result of the work of the Platform, the Minister for Work has already submitted a draft decision on the registration and supervision of temporary unemployed to the Management Committee of the RVA. This Decision should enter into force on 1 September. We also hope that the regions will intensify their cooperation, for example by reviewing the cooperation agreements in order to tackle the issue more effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u52	Madam President, Minister, I come from construction myself, and I have people who have to knock on the same nail every day. I'm gonna keep doing that, too, 'cause it's crazy. We feel it every day, employers and many workers, who are under severe pressure because far too few people can help them. I said it in the past, I say it today and I will say it again: we must continue to motivate, activate, train, guide. The social hammock doesn't always help. That is why I call on the trade unions to help activate, because that is how they really help the many working people, who now have to bear the burdens that sometimes do not pay enough to work. Reducing the burden of activation would make work more attractive and would ease the pressure on the labour market and the workforce. Together, we are building a more social and viable future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u53	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, one adage says that every job deserves a salary. This implies that all work deserves a fair and equitable salary. Asking 14 euros an hour is not asking for the moon, it is asking for the minimum. This is a fight that the Socialist Party has been waging for several years and for which we have tabled a bill in this House. About a year ago, Minister Dermagne, after lengthy negotiations, finally obtained an agreement between the social partners to increase the minimum wage by 15% over the next five years. I think we can talk about a historic agreement because in the end, that salary had been blocked for too many years. There was a drop in the minimum wage. Today, the European Union will allow Belgium to go further. Following a proposal for a directive, agreement was reached between Parliament and the Council on raising this minimum wage at European level. The aim is to require Member States to put in place a legal framework which sets and updates this minimum wage, which would be a sufficient wage for all workers, and which would represent 60 % of the median wage. For the vast majority of States, this would represent a significant increase. Minister, can you tell us more about the timetable for this European legislative process? What position will Belgium take in these negotiations? How do you intend to transpose this future directive into Belgian legislation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 7 June 2022, as you have said, the negotiators for the Presidency of the Council and the European Parliament, supported by European Commissioner Nicolas Schmit, reached provisional political agreement on the draft directive on adequate minimum wages in the European Union. The new European law will promote the adequacy of minimum wages in all European countries and thus contribute to the creation of decent working and living conditions for European workers. I would like to point out that the number of workers living in poverty was higher just before the co-vid than during the peak of the 2008-2009 financial crisis. Young people, migrant workers and those under temporary contracts are the most affected by labour poverty. I am therefore very pleased with Minister Pierre-Yves Dermagne that the negotiations in which Belgium actively participated have been successful. As a follow-up to the procedure, this agreement will normally be finally adopted at the meeting of the Ministers for Employment in Luxembourg on 16 June. It is clear that Belgium will approve the directive as we have supported it since the beginning. From the outset, together with a few other Member States, we have always tried to obtain the strongest possible directive. Indeed, we fully support the objectives of combating poverty at work, continuing social convergence upwards and promoting collective bargaining. Secondly, it will be up to the European Parliament to validate the directive. After its publication, Member States will have to transpose it. The direct consequences for Belgium are limited. As you pointed out, we already have a minimum wage negotiated between the social partners. We will therefore not have to adapt our legislation significantly. But the indirect consequences of this directive, thanks in particular to the convergence towards the top, obviously represent a step forward for Belgium, inter alia in the fight against social dumping and unfair competition. I also hope that the criteria for assessing the adequacy of the legal minimum wage will be a source of inspiration for future wage negotiations between the social partners in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u55	Minister, thank you for your positive answers. That is indeed good news. A decent wage is the basis of social justice. The agreement reached at European level is a real hope for millions of workers in the European Union. For all these workers concerned, it is the hope of a better future and a better quality of life. We must break out of this spiral of impoverishment of workers who no longer manage to make ends meet. It is therefore a formidable lever for improving living conditions, supporting economies and solidarity with the most fragile. For all these reasons, it goes without saying that we support all the initiatives of the government to reach the minimum 14 euros; the sooner the better!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u56	Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, it was another afternoon. I often look at the ministers in plenary and I often think that you are still interested. I see here a Minister of Work who is not interested in labour market reform. I see a minister of pensions who is not interested in coming up with retirement plans. I see the Prime Minister, Mr De Croo, who does not seem interested in a budget deficit of 16 billion, 17 billion or 20 billion. I see you, Madam Secretary of State, responsible for political renewal and the questioning of citizens, and I am increasingly asking myself whether you are still interested. We've seen the citizen survey that started with over a year's delay. Every government contract in the context of that citizen search has actually been screwed up. That is clear from your own figures. You have put this survey on the market as a major national brainstorm and in the end 19,000 people participated in it. Imagine, Madam Secretary, that you were committed, that you were a citizen who wanted to participate, who did want to make the effort after first colliding on a hugely complex website. You are one of the approximately 7 million people who were the target group of your survey, everyone over 16 years of age. You managed to convince 19,000 of them. Those people wanted to participate and were confronted with a complex website. There were 56 questions. Those who were truly committed have taken the trouble to answer an average of four. So that's four out of 56. Madam Secretary, you seem to be standing by and looking at it. Do you still care? That is my most important question, after months of work in the committee in Parliament. Isn't it time to make an honest analysis and establish that you might want to focus on other areas? Is it not perhaps more interesting to simply assign your competence for political renewal to someone else?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u57	Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to reassure you that, unlike my nationalist colleagues who will speak on this issue, I am not here at all to dismantle your popular consultation. On the contrary, I believe that our country and our democracy have a future on which our citizens deserve to be able to express themselves. It is for this reason that, at the launch of this popular consultation a month and a half ago, I asked you to ensure that this consultation is not a blow to the eyes in view of the very short time that was left for citizens to express themselves on complex and numerous issues. I have also drawn attention to its purely indicative nature or to your will, and that of your party in particular, to increasingly regionalise certain matters, in particular health care, whatever the opinion of our fellow citizens, knowing that this commitment is contained in your government agreement. You promised me adjustments to reach the largest number of citizens. It must be noted that only 19,000 people participated in this popular consultation. A flop that you then tried to hide with your draft bill on citizen panels drawn by lot, which my party also supports. Minister, do you consider that the answers that have been collected are now sufficiently representative and exploitable to feed into possible new state reforms? How long is the expert report due? In what time frame will the well-known citizen panels be set up? I would really like to avoid these panels, like this popular consultation, becoming just an alibi to force your will to move ever more towards greater regionalization of certain skills, especially health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u58	Madam President, Minister, we already knew that your citizen questioning was not representative, expensive and amateurish, as was the Vivaldi government. Now it turns out that the public has no message at all about it either. Mr Loones asked a question about the interest. Well, the citizen is clearly not interested in it. Of your team of 11 million, 19,000 people have registered to participate or to make an attempt to fill those questions. They provided 75,000 answers, representing on average about four questions per participant, while dozens of questions could be answered. In view of the very expensive and large-scale campaign, you can find this only a very embarrassing result. Only a negligible number of 19.000 people, including cabinet employees, converted 0.17 % of your target group, participated. For a citizen survey that cost the taxpayer no less than EUR 2.1 million, that actually amounts to EUR 110 per participant. I think you would have been better off delivering those people with that amount of gas, because now that the answers are in, you don't even know which company will analyze and process those answers. Madam Secretary, instead of hiding in a corner full of genuine shame, I read that you say on Twitter that you will get to work on the results. My question is very simple whether you really mean that or whether you think that this misplaced joke has cost enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u59	Mr Loones, Mrs Pas, I do not underestimate you, but I could have put my watch right on these questions. They are not very original and you do not surprise me with their content. You can do a bit rough about the citizen survey, but it is the first time that we have submitted a number of complex questions with a survey. More than 19,000 people have accepted the offer and we have received more than 75,000 ideas. There have been a lot of debates in schools, in parent organisations, in various youth parliaments and by local authorities, in which both the elderly and young people have participated. Teachers have also taken the educational aspects of the survey to heart. So you can take that to heart, but I don't think it was a blow in the water. Mrs Rohonyi, we did not define a minimum number of participants in this consultation and we did not intend to conduct a representative survey, but to give everyone the chance to participate. They have been given the opportunity to reflect on future state reform and democratic renewal and to formulate ideas for modernising our democracy. By way of comparison, in the framework of the Conference on the Future of Europe, the Commission's European platform generated 18,995 ideas and 22,570 comments in more than a year and across Europe. It should therefore not be said that collecting 75,000 ideas in Belgium is not worth it. This platform, its promotion and the processing of data costs money. We've never put that under seats or couches. If you want to communicate, it's gonna cost you. The proposed amount was EUR 2.1 million, because we wanted to reach as many people as possible. We have achieved more people than in Europe with the Conference on the Future of Europe. Last time, I also said that I was surprised to get those comments from a party that has itself spent EUR 1.7 million on Facebook ads to put its own party in the picture. You can hardly do anything about an amount of EUR 2 million, but if that 1.7 million euros of taxpayers' money is well spent, let me put it in the middle. Mrs Pas, the website indeed contained a number of complex questions. I challenge you to formulate a question about the future of our country in a less complex way, without making abstraction of reality. Last time you told me that we might be able to talk about the billions of transfers from Flanders to Wallonia. That's not an easy question either, that's just taking a walk with reality. That's not an easy question. You shouldn't keep it that way, because you'll throw people in the eyes. We have tried to do this as simple as possible. The FOD BOSA took on public procurement as well as the management of the platform, to keep its user-friendliness further in mind. We follow the rules on public procurement. Mr Loones, I can't say if they've all been turned into soup. We'll follow the rules. If an irregular tender has been submitted, we cannot award orders. This is not the responsibility of the contracting authority, but of the tenderer who must ensure, inter alia, that tenders are signed regularly. We don't award orders to irregular bids. I assume you understand. We have started our ambition with this first step towards democratic renewal. We've given people a chance to speak up, to share ideas. We have also started the debate further. We will also continue this debate. So we're not just gonna put that next to us. I'm not ashamed to say that we'll get to work on that. After all, it would be strange to classify the ideas that people have formulated vertically. The experts will give us a report this autumn. That was planned, too. We will keep that schedule. We will make a public account of this, so that you can read all of it. Then it is up to this Parliament and the government to take this further. That there is a problem with confidence in politics knows all of you here in Parliament. The fact that we want to do something about this and that we have taken it to heart is also clear with this initiative. I have no problem with a little criticism from this Parliament. I would find it much worse if we did not get to grips with the criticism that citizens are giving us and if we do not listen to them. I would like to thank all those who have contributed to this platform and have entered into a debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u60	Madam Minister, I have brought you a quote: "The citizen survey in June was a farce, blinding to the general public. The results will not be taken into account. There will be no concrete objectives to be set out." It is a quote by colleague Servais Verherstraeten, from the year 2001. He was talking about Guy Verhofstadt's major citizen interview. You say it was the first time there was a civil inquiry, but that's not right. It happened before, even under a purple-green government. By the way, this citizen questioning has done 40 times better than yours. Then there were 750,000 answers, now there are only 19,000. Mr Verherstraeten's conclusion is still valid. The questioning is a farce. It was her then, and it's her today. Madam Secretary, you say you'll be working on this. With all due respect, even the government contract (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u61	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. If there is one thing we agree with, it is that consulting our fellow citizens on the functioning of our country is indeed much more constructive than spending millions and millions of euros to fill their heads with separatist ideas on Facebook. I therefore believe that the N-VA and Vlaams Belang have no lessons to teach us about the proper management of public funds. Where we are less in agreement, it is on the question of whether the method you have chosen is indeed the most favourable and effective way to restore this indispensable trust between politics and the citizen. In this regard, it must be noted that entrusting a report to three experts in order to finally let the government do what it wants is not the most timely solution. I therefore urge you, Madam Minister, to give our fellow citizens the rightful place they have in this debate and to exclude you (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u62	Madam Minister, unfortunately, most of the taxpayers' money has already been thrown away for that questioning. We can't take that back. Unfortunately, however, you are now in a position to do real democratic damage. For you now want to choose which answers you will do something with and with which you will not. You want to work with those non-representative answers. Madam Secretary, it is the citizen who referred your windowdressing, your citizen search, to the garbage can, where she belongs. You shouldn't be working on it at all. You could have started with the real citizen questioning, with the results of the latest elections, in which the Flemings have set a very clear direction. If you are really serious about democracy, support our proposals to make referendums possible in this country, rather than proposals on lottery tickets and other misconceptions. That's real...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u63	This concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u64	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 June 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 June 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u65	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Michel De Maegd, Vicky Reynaert, Karin Jiroflée, Els Van Hoof, Guillaume Defossé, Wouter De Vriendt, Marianne Verhaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u66	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2151/6) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2151/6) The title has been changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution to recognise the occurrence of cases of illegal adoptions in Belgium, to recognise the persons concerned as victims and to initiate an administrative investigation on the subject". The title was changed by the committee to "Proposal for a resolution on the recognition of children illegally adopted in Belgium, on the recognition of those concerned as victims, and on the establishment of an administrative inquiry in this area." The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur, Mr Cogolati, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u67	I note that Mr. De Maegd hastened to ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u68	Madam President, you asked if there were any comments. I have a suggestion. With all due respect for the presidency of the House and for our respective Presidents, in particular for mine, I understand that you have decided in the Conference of Presidents to limit the speaking time of parliamentarians to five minutes in a resolution. I share your willingness to optimize the speaking time of parliamentarians and possibly avoid a parliamentary flibus, but in some cases, for some texts that are extremely complex and involve many requests to the government, it is impossible to go in the shade and explain these various requests to the government in five small minutes. I find it a pity that Parliament itself is actually savouring its own public expression. I think it's a little bit the soul of democracy that evaporates. What I would dare to suggest to you, Madam President, is to review this possibility in the Conference of Presidents. I have discussed this with Members of each party who agree with me. I think that leaving ten minutes, no more, to the main author of a resolution seems to me a suggestion of common sense which I leave to your appreciation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u69	Mr De Maegd, this is part of an agreement that has indeed been discussed in the Conference of Presidents for this sitting, given the number of resolutions that have also been adopted unanimously in the committees, with work that has already been done in committee sometimes with hearings and during several successive meetings. The aim of our plenary session is not, of course, to start the debate over again, but, on the contrary, to sum up the positions of each other with clarity so that it can shed light on the citizens who listen to us or who look at us. I also welcome the people who are today on the balcony with great pleasure. Mr De Maegd, your question will be asked in the Conference of Presidents, but let us move forward on the agenda today!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u70	Madam President, thank you for taking this suggestion into account. It's very elegant of you. I would say that excess harms everything, including the duration of parliamentary interventions, and sometimes the length of time that we have to express ourselves. We are the temple of democracy. It may be necessary to recall this and it is important to take into account the views of all Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u71	Mr De Maegd, this is a dangerous game because, in view of other Parliaments, speaking times are usually much shorter than what is allowed in our house. We still have to be careful when we say we cut off the word or we don't allow the expression. This is absolutely not the case in our Parliament, and we will be able to prove it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to welcome the people in the gallery. The fact that you're here means something. It means that the resolution before us today has a great social interest. It means above all that the need is high. It has taken a long time, too long, but today we are taking a first step together in a process of recognition and recovery. Since the 1960s, the international adoption has experienced steady growth. A abandoned child from distant countries offers a safe home and opportunities, while also helping couples with a child's wish: it seemed undoubtedly a win-win. If something went wrong in the adoption procedure or during childhood, it was too often dismissed as exceptional. And yet at that time there were signs that in adoption files there was counterfeiting of documents and giving up children under duress or against payment. However, this did not lead to a social debate or to a change in procedures. The positive story primed, and it was seen as "doing good." I do not want to have said in any way that there are no positive stories. It's mostly grown up now, you guys, who are slowly but surely making a change in this. More and more adepts go looking for their origins, sometimes because they want children themselves or because they feel pressure on time because their birth parents are not getting younger, and also because it is important for many people who are adopted to find that missing piece of puzzle about their origin and identity. In addition, they simply have the right to know where they come from. In their search for their file, they stumble on conflicting information, on errors in their file if there was a file. The uncovering of malpractices which did not occur, or which did not occur sufficiently, raised awareness that controls on procedures in the countries of origin were necessary. The 1993 Adoption Treaty of The Hague had to provide an answer to this. The Treaty states that the child must be at the heart of the issue, that international adoption can only be achieved if the child has an absolute benefit and if his rights are fully respected. A very important point here is subsidiarity. We must first examine whether there is no possibility of shelter in our own region and in our own family. Today we can say that despite the Hague Adoption Convention and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, there are still shortcomings. We are talking specifically about fraud in obtaining voluntary consent through counterfeiting, coercion, bribery, but also about outright kidnapping and child trafficking. You may think that these malpractices and criminal acts are a thing of the past, ladies and gentlemen, but unfortunately they are still topical. Even though a great deal of efforts have already been made and the number of adoptions is no longer comparable to the numbers in the last century, every child, every birth parent or every adoptive parent who becomes the victim, there is too much. The financial incentives in the procedure are still present and adoption channels move to countries where there is no or little control. So society is facing a triple task. We need to make sure that the malpractices never happen again. We need to investigate and recognise that the government and adoption services have failed in combating illegal adoption. We need to strengthen the offer of aftercare. In the meantime, research is under way in many European countries. Research committees were set up in the Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden and Switzerland. Something's moving in France too. With us it was the Flemish government that took the first steps in 2019 with a final report containing 20 recommendations. It called for the discouragement of full adoption and more for an open adoption, without breaking the legal ties. The expert panel calls for the extension of criminal law and to ensure that the cancellation of an adoption retains certain rights for theadoptists, such as not losing nationality and civil rights. Now it is up to the federal government and the requests of this resolution are addressed. I will not list them all, but the most important thing is that there is an administrative inquiry conducted by independent experts, who have to produce results within six months. It is so important to recognise that this has happened and to see those involved as victims. I think I can say on behalf of all those present in the Committee on Foreign Affairs that the hearings have left a deep impression on us. Try to imagine taking your baby with a high fever to a hospital and that after a few days it turns out to be transferred to another hospital in another city. Upon arrival at that hospital, you will find out that your baby didn't make it and is buried in an anonymous grave. In reality, the little girl was housed in an orphanage where everything was put in place for adoption in our country. The biological parents mourned and the Belgian parents were aware of no evil. Can you imagine what that does to a human being, to a family? Ladies and gentlemen, in cases like this, party politics should not play a role. That was also the approach of the petitioner, who was absolutely open to cooperation. I would very much have liked to have signed this resolution, but not all the parties would have liked it. If the shoe fits, put it on. I can tell you that I find it particularly regrettable. It will be the new political culture. I comfort myself with the fact that the text is there and that it will be approved. In any case, it will not prevent me from continuing to pay attention to this particular issue. I would like to end, Madam President, with a word of thanks and a personal note. Thank you to the author and the tractor of this dossier, Mr De Maegd. It has not been a clear road, not even within the majority. Michel, however, continued to push through, out of conviction and necessity. Thanks for that. In my words of thanks, however, I would like to look at you in particular. I want to thank you for your courage and perseverance. It's been a long way. The next hurdle will be taken, but it's not over yet. Your testimonies have also personally triggered something with me... (emotional) (Applause) (Applause) I was born in a monastery in Dunkirk, France, under the name Emmanuel Claude. I'm a so-called x-kid who was given up after an anonymous delivery. The only information I got about my parents was that my birth mother was very young. That's all I know. I consider myself someone who's been very lucky, because my parents are wonderful people. My adoption story is a positive story, but still. I cried for it a first time in third grade, when I was taught religious lessons about the importance of family and blood ties. I came home crying, because a blood bond was just what we didn't have at home. In the conversation that followed, I saw my dad break into 1,000 pieces. At that time, I intended never to cry again. I cried for it a second time on 15 March 2022 at your testimony on the committee. As a teenager, I had decided for myself that those first days of my life should not have an impact and would have an impact on who I was. I had also decided that I should be especially grateful for the incredible chance I had to end up with my parents and nowhere else. I had decided that, or at least I thought I had decided that. Your testimonies have loosened something, something that I had put away very deep inside. The last few months have been an emotional rollercoaster, but it's about time. It's okay. For the first time, I'm able to embrace my feelings about this, and that's because of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u73	Madam Chair, it is not easy to speak after Ms. Ingels' testimony. I want to assure her of our solidarity and admiration for the courage she has shown to this day. As we adopt this text today, I wish to have a thought for the victims of illegal adoptions. I am thinking of the children who have been torn from their parents, their history, the children whose lives have been stolen to replace them with another and who are brutally confronted with this dual identity and the psychological, emotional and social imbalances that result from it. I am thinking of biological parents who are unfairly aware of the huge void left by an absent child and whose vulnerability has been taken advantage of in an abhorrent manner. I am also thinking of the adoptive parents, the foster family, whose suffering and burning, legitimate, vital desire to have and raise a child, to transmit love, values and education have been abused. Today they live with this sense of guilt that should not be their responsibility. These people today have the right to justice and truth. This text is a gesture of recognition of their situation and excuses for what happened to them. Be careful, this text does not solve anything. I would not want to make false promises to these people in the gallery. There is still a long way to go, particularly in the investigation to be carried out. This text therefore tries to place signs on the roadside because our institutional system is a veritable maze, our skills are scattered and, sometimes, the victims are swept. Everyone must now take responsibility and I hope that all levels of power will finally act because it is a matter of honour and, above all, of justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u74	Would you like to speak now, Mr. De Maegd?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u75	Madam President, I will let my colleagues speak and I will speak at the end.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u76	Madam President, "they stole my life." I remember the words of one of the experience experts who was heard in our committee during the hearings on illegal adoption. I want to thank them for the testimony. Mr Ingels' personal testimony has also touched us very strongly in the committee, which has led us to adopt this resolution unanimously. The words "they have stolen my life" are very well summarized about what this is about. These are people whose origins have been taken away, people who do not know where they come from, who have been ripped away from their roots, not by chance or accident, but by deliberate activities of child trafficking. Not only are they the victims of this. Also their adoptive parents who know nothing about it and of course their biological parents are very often the victims. How else can we call it? During the hearings, we heard how people did not turn their backs on falsifying documents, actively bribing official bodies and exploiting poverty. That is unacceptable. That is why today, with this resolution, we are sending a signal to all those who have fallen victim to illegal adoption. I would also like to thank Mr De Maegd for defending this resolution with great passion and fire in our committee. We want to acknowledge the suffering that was done to those people. During the hearings we organised on this subject in committee, the victims were clear. They finally want recognition for what has happened to them, they finally want to restore the identity that has been taken away from them. That is what we want to do with this resolution. We've asked you to start a thorough investigation as soon as possible. If we want to acknowledge the suffering of the victims, we must also look at it thoroughly. We have asked for this report to come back to Parliament so that we can get to work on the recommendations and work very concretely on recognition and recovery. That's very important. This is close to the heart of the CD&V group, not only in the federal Parliament, but also in Flanders. Jo Van Deurzen then compiled the research panel and commissioned the research to start at Flemish level. Wouter Beke came up with bold proposals, which were not supported by everyone, but which I still fully support. A number of things have already been decided, but we can go much further. Our group has also tabled amendments aimed specifically at establishing a partnership with the Länder in order to establish a legal framework to exercise the right to information on origin and to ensure that children find their biological family. For our party, it is clear that everyone has the fundamental right to know their own origins. The Convention on the Rights of the Child and the European Convention on Human Rights are not a piece of paper in this respect for us. For the same reason, we also want the government to look at ways of simplifying the procedure for changing someone's name and age. After all, it is unacceptable that someone should be confused in an administrative hug in the matter. That is the last thing we need to harass victims of illegal adoption. It is important, however, that recognition for the victims should not remain in the symbolic sphere, but should also lead to a concrete and real recovery. It is therefore a good thing that the resolution calls on the government to consider the possibility of establishing a legal framework for that recovery, for example by adapting criminal law. Furthermore, our group has also called for good cooperation between federal and sub-state services. It is important that the Hague Convention is also applied in practice, so as to ensure that countries handle it carefully and also that they conform. We must at all times avoid that files slip through the loopholes and that the lives of innocent people are stolen in this way, as is still happening today. Colleagues, I hope that we can take steps to recognise and restore the victims of these terrible crimes, as we should call them. I also hope that, although we cannot undo the past, we can offer them real opportunities for recovery. That is why we naturally support the resolution and wish to work on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, of course our group will also support this resolution because it calls for attention and proposes solutions to a poignant problem caused by criminal abuse of trust and honourable intentions, often for profit. This crime has been put under the mat for too long. This resolution has the merit of recognising the immense suffering of children robbed from families, of unsuspecting adoptive families, of broken biological families. The compelling testimonies during the hearings, and also thanks to the courageous testimony of Mr Ingels net, for which a great deal of admiration and respect, show also what complex and torn feelings and situation are the result of this, including for the people present here. My group therefore supports the request to the Federal Government, in accordance with its powers, to take all necessary measures to ensure that such crimes cannot be repeated in the future. We are therefore thinking of the ongoing conflicts in Ukraine, Yemen and Ethiopia, where similar emergency adoption procedures for children, whose survival cannot be established quickly, should not be allowed, as has happened in the past with Haitian children, for example. The request to adopt a legal framework that allows victims of illegal adoption, inter alia, to exercise their right to information on their origin and to obtain recovery is a good and necessary step. Our group very much hopes that the government will implement the requests made in this resolution without delay, quickly and faithfully. The victims of this past abuse here will therefore know justice and get justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this matter has not been left untouched by any member of the committee. During the hearings we heard very emotional statements directly from victims of illegal adoption, both of the children concerned and of the adoptive parents. I would like to thank them once again for their courageous testimonies, which have touched each of us. I would also like to express my support for Mr Ingels, both for her courageous testimony here and in committee. The idea that in certain adoptions children are taken from their parents are kidnapped, to give them for adoption in the West, every mother and every father becomes silent. These are practices which we must strongly condemn. We must find and stop such practices. As politicians, we must therefore have the courage to find out where it went wrong. I think it is very important that the adoptive parents should also be involved. The adoptive parents themselves are not to blame, because they adopt in good faith and subsequently find out that the adoption was not correct. That is also a particularly bitter pill for them to swallow. I would like to stress that they too are victims. The amended resolution takes into account all the input we have received, both on the basis of the hearings and through the advice of the Minister of Justice. We must indeed recognise that there have been cases of illegal adoption in our country. This recognition is particularly important for the victims, both children and parents. We know that the division of powers does not make it easy in our country, but these victims do not have a message. They must not be subjected to the complexity of our country for a second time. The Federal Government should discuss and address this issue together with the Communities at inter-ministerial conferences. Together with the Communities, we must ensure that there is no longer any possibility of illegal adoption. This resolution is a good first step and an important signal to the victims, but of course it is not an end. I would like to conclude by thanking the author of this proposal. Thanks to the research work and the determination of Mr De Maegd, this text can be adopted today. Of course, I will also support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to begin by thanking the author of the text, Mr Michel De Maegd, for putting this very important subject on the agenda of the Chamber. Indeed, the issue of illegal adoption has been under discussion in Flanders for some time now. However, it is important that this issue should also be discussed at the federal level. The hearings showed that a number of elements at the federal level need to be examined and addressed, for example the extension of the limitation period, the status of victims and the maintenance of nationality. It is always important to do this in continuous consultation with the regions. As Coline Fanon pointed out, a victim remains a victim, independent of Communities, laws or language roles. We held thematic hearings in the Chamber for three weeks in order to have a better understanding of the situation. The second hearing was indeed the most important, but also the most poignant, because when victims, unfortunately also experts and experienced experts, came to tell their story. These stories grabbed me at the throat, as a mother but also as a peer. This also applies to the story of Mr Ingels. It must be terrible growing up and thinking for years that your mother left you behind. That must gnaw at your self-esteem and your self-esteem. Those lost years never come back. In addition, we clearly noticed in the hearing that it is also terrible for the wishing parents themselves. They also do not want to take a child from someone else and then live their lives with guilt. That's what one of the baby's parents told me. It is important that the hearings also said that we should look to the future. We must learn from what has happened and we must do everything we can to ensure that this does not happen again. When reference was made to the 2010 Haiti earthquake where children were abandoned for adoption in Belgium in the chaos of the earthquake without it being clear whether there were any surviving relatives. Look at the war in Ukraine today. Unfortunately, where people find themselves in vulnerable situations, there is also often abuse. An amendment is therefore tabled which states that children must be reunited with their parents or family members as soon as possible and that our country must ensure that no adoptions can take place in a conflict situation. The hearings further refined and strengthened the resolution, with the clear message that a panel of experts will be appointed through an inter-ministerial conference to answer the research questions within a certain time limit. This aspect will also be included in the Special Committee on Trafficking in Human Beings and Trafficking in Human Beings. The specific federal aspects are further examined. Indeed, the hearings showed, inter alia, that the extension of the limitation period is particularly important. Ladies and gentlemen, this text is very important. He needs to move some things for the many people who are looking for their identity today. That is why the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will, of course, support this text with full conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is for the most part the memory that the victims of illegal adoption retain from their previous lives, the life they could have lived if they had not been kidnapped, ripped off by the traffickers from their parents of origin. (He shows baby slippers) These two little slippers are, therefore, in addition to an adoption file full of inconsistencies, the only thing that connects the victims including Coline Fanon – and all those who accompany them today – to his past, to his first identity. Mariela's daughter, who was born in Guatemala in the 1980s, was kidnapped at the hospital at the age of two days and falsely declared dead with her mother. Adopted in Belgium, she lived a peaceful life until the day, at the age of 30, when her children asked her: "Mom, do you know what your origins are?" This has been the beginning of an earthquake, ladies and gentlemen. When she looked at her file, she came across obvious inconsistencies and errors, and then discovered the terrible truth. In fact, Coline, Mariela in Guatemala, was not dead but kidnapped by a network of child traffickers created by the sister-in-law of the President of Guatemala! She was locked in a room, with many other newborns, most of the time tied by her arms to the bars of a bed. This ordeal lasted eleven months. It is attested by photos. Subsequently, it was sold via an association based at our home in Tournai, Hacer Puente, a real hub of traffic in Europe. The adoptive family, on the other hand, knew nothing. As in the case of the family of origin, the traffickers who would take more money from him. A family who followed the traditional and legal procedure, who trusted the Belgian administration. Three years ago, Coline, or Mariela – according to it – found her mother and her biological father in Guatemala and discovered that she had nine brothers and sisters, one of whom is currently in prison for having, thirty-five years later, simply requested her Belgian sister's birth certificate from the administration of her country. In 2022, Coline's truth continues to disturb – in a very high place! Will you believe me if I tell you that Edmond Mulet, former right-hand man of Ban Ki-moon at the United Nations, is one of those child traffickers and that he will run for presidential elections in his country in 2024? This is Coline's story, but I could have told you the story of Saartje, Anne, Praet, Jung, Miranda and so many others, adopted illegally and who testified before our committee, or that of Sébastien, Irene and Maria – disillusioned adoptive parents, all present in the gallery, as at every meeting of our commission. Each of their stories goes beyond understanding. Hill was the tree that hides the forest, what do I say: the jungle of international adoption! How could such adoptions be authenticated and validated in our country, when the inconsistencies were obvious? Of course, I'm talking about incomplete records, absurd dates of birth, pictures that didn't match the children who arrived in Belgium, children born officially – stand up! – from a mother over the age of none, and I pass. There are three victims in each case: the adopted person, his or her family of origin and his or her adoptive family. Moreover, I had the opportunity to meet with adoptive parents of several children born in Congo and adopted in Belgium in 2016. So just a few years ago – proof if it is that this kind of situation persists. One day, the police knocked at their door to tell them that the child they had adopted in good faith – Irene – and to whom they brought so much love was actually the victim of a kidnapping and that his family of origin had been located in Congo by a Belgian rogatory commission. How can we live, ladies and gentlemen, with this weight, when you have done everything in accordance with the rules of art? Well, our motion for a resolution must succeed in preventing such events from happening again because of administrative loopholes. In this text, our Assembly recognizes the occurrence of these adoptions and apologizes to all the victims for their suffering. That was important. Rachid Madrane, the then competent minister in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, himself said in 2018: "It is clear that the very existence of this situation warrants an apology to all the victims." We call for an extensive, independent administrative investigation with a panel of experts to shed light on these events and identify gaps. The government will also have to recognize the occurrence of these illegal adoptions and recognize the persons concerned as victims. Then come other concrete requests that I do not have time to explain to you here. It is time, ladies and gentlemen, to change paradigms. Too often we were looking for a child for a family and not a family for a child. We have to reverse it. The interests of the child must be the absolute consideration. Our resolution is all the more urgent given that cases of illegal adoption still occur at this time. I am still receiving new testimonies and calls for help today. Last September, I was invited to present this text to the United Nations in Geneva. As a result of the hearing, several United Nations committees decided to take over the hearing. The Netherlands, Switzerland and Sweden conducted their survey. France and Denmark will follow. Spain has just announced that, following our vote in committee, it will follow suit. An international awareness is taking place. I am proud, ladies and gentlemen, that our country is among the pioneers in this area and proud of the hope that we will give back to the victims of illegal adoption and who are there. I thank these victims and all the parties of both the majority and the opposition. I stress the constructive work of Yngvild Ingels whose co-signature I would have liked, which was not possible. Dear Yngvild, your constructive work is worth every signature in the world. Victims and victims' associations know that. I hope that this text will be adopted, as was the case in committee, unanimously, so that never more can a victim be linked to his true identity than a pair of little slippers tainted for life by this heinous trafficking of children. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u81	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u82	• 29 years Annick Ponthier cs (2151/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u83	The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u84	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open The rapporteur is Mr Demon. Mr Francken has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u85	Madam President, is the relevant Secretary of State present? He's already in Luxembourg? That must have happened supersonically: 20 minutes ago he was still here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u86	I thought he had to go to the European Council in Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u87	I take it this can be treated next week?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u88	Normally, he would have been absent from this meeting this week. However, he came for the oral questions, but he did not have time to stay any longer. He had to leave for Luxembourg today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u89	Given that the Secretary of State, I assume, is not really aware of the file, I suggest that we have this debate next week. There is no urgency for this bill. Or will you answer my questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u90	At the meeting of the Conference of Presidents, we discussed all the absences, including the absence of Mr Mahdi. So that was announced.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u91	I'm sorry, but he's not on the list. "From 17 o'clock": then he can come another ten minutes, it's now 16.50 o'clock. I'm the only speaker, so...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u92	I'll get the list of absences.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u93	It's his last bill. He'll be gone in two weeks. I would have liked to have had another conversation with him. Afraid of his successor? No, I'm not. I'm particularly curious to know who that will be. That's what keeps me really busy. That's what's keeping me awake. Mr Mahdi is not absent from the list, Madam President, which was circulated to all Members at 3 p.m. yesterday. I had paid particular attention to it because I know that European meetings are important, but then he should have apologized or at least been put on the list. But as for urgency, there is no urgency. So we can discuss this next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u94	What you are asking for is a change to our agenda. The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber shall state: "The agenda may subsequently be amended only by a vote cast on the initiative of either the President of the Chamber or of the assembly or by a vote on a motion, proposed in writing and supported by a third of the members of the Chamber."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u95	Madam President, we agree on this at the Conference of Presidents. The agenda shall then be determined by consensus. I can only repeat that, according to our information, which was later explicitly confirmed by the services, Mr Mahdi was announced as present. When we set the agenda at the Conference of Presidents, that is, of course, with the knowledge given to us and confirmed once again. I assume that Mr Mahdi will undoubtedly defend and explain his own draft laws out of honour and respect for his office and the files he is following, as has already been shown in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u96	I suggest that we contact Mr Mahdi and move on to the next item on our day order. After our contact we will be able to react again to the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u97	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Nahima Lanjri, Nathalie Muylle, Tania De Jonge, Jean-Marc Delizée, Christophe Bombled, Marie-Colline Leroy, Gitta Vanpeborgh.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u98	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2300/6) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2300/6) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u99	I refer to the written report, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u100	Madam President, the year 2022 will be that of the deployment of the European disability card, which is more well known and more often mentioned by its English name, European Disability Card. This initiative was launched in 2016 and 2017 by the European Commission in eight EU pilot countries including Belgium. We have all found that this map, although beneficial to the people concerned, is too little known to the target audience. The system as such is not sufficiently effective. We have all done this for some time. In her policy note, the Minister for People with Disabilities, Ms Karine Lalieux, indicated her willingness to mobilise local actors and sectors of activity involved in this European map, with the intention of increasing the number of partners on this map. This is the first point, and this is where it hurts: there is a shortage of partners or sectors of activity involved in providing certain benefits to people with disabilities. Therefore, Minister Lalieux made several proposals in her policy note to raise awareness of this map and to improve its practical use. Also at its initiative, last year the government adopted the Federal Disability Action Plan, several concrete measures to improve the operation of this map within the framework of federal jurisdiction, rail transportation, federal scientific and cultural institutions, etc. This federal plan outlines a number of measures to raise awareness of the communications map. The plan engages all ministers and addresses a cross-cutting issue, namely access to the rights of persons with disabilities and their better participation in societal and cultural life in different areas. Several measures included in the plan are already being implemented. Of course, and we have talked about it in committee, given the division of powers of our federal state, the Regions and the Communities are also concerned. There is therefore a part of consultation and dialogue with the heads of the Regions and the Communities, in order to ensure that, within the framework of their own powers, the ministers concerned can also improve and promote this European map for people with disabilities. Minister Lalieux's desire is to bring this point to the Interdepartmental Conference on Wellness, Sport and Family, with a subgroup on persons with disabilities, in order to raise awareness and promote the use of this card and its benefits. The resolution tabled by our colleague Lanjri and co-signed by other colleagues is part of this desire to improve and promote the EDC card. In any case, we see in this resolution support for the government's action in this area today, as well as an invitation to support other public bodies, in particular the federated entities. We have had a rich debate in committee and, on the content, there is a broad consensus within the groups on the objectives to be achieved with this map. We have fine-tuned the text, amendments have been proposed, debated and approved, taking into account, inter alia, the remarks and the opinion of the National Higher Council for Persons with Disabilities. In the end, the actors in the field are those who know people with disabilities best and who represent their voices. They also want to be heard in all matters relating to the rights of persons and access to the rights of persons with disabilities. It is these people who have the knowledge of the terrain and the realities. In short, Madam President, in order not to repeat the debate in committee, I believe that, for all these reasons and in this context, it is obvious that the Socialist Group will give its support with great enthusiasm and will. We will therefore approve this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u101	People with disabilities deserve more than our usual attention. The benefits of the EDC card have already been explained. Moreover, this card is more practical in use than any other official document to prove a disability. The EDC card is well known and well established in certain centers, but its roll-out can still be optimized. Moreover, the EDC card is not yet sufficiently known to both the target group itself and the service providers, local authorities and organisations. The Belgian Disability Forum has been very active in seeking support for their EDC project and that is to their credit. This resolution responds to their greed. Of course, my group will support this proposal. We agree with the wider disclosure of this map. We are convinced that this has an important role to play by the various authorities. Consultation between the different levels is and remains a must in this regard. However, by this route, I would like to emphasise that there is still a long way to go when it comes to the inclusion of people with disabilities. For let us be honest: at the federal level, the implementation of the more than 145 measures developed by Minister Lalieux in her Federal Disability Action Plan is still very little. That was all my fear when the Minister came out with her plan. The problem is to sum up briefly: there is no final responsibility. It has been chosen to entrust the elaboration of these measures to various ministers and secretaries of state, but that actually drowns the fish. What I said about this in September 2021 has become a reality. There is a plan, but there are hardly any realizations on the ground so far, which is particularly unfortunate. However, the complaints about how we deal with people with disabilities in our society are numerous. The question is whether this resolution will not end up in the Minister's shuffle and collect dust there. With plans and fine intentions, this target group is nothing. I am therefore counting on policy makers to get to work this time and deliver on their promises in the interests of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, today we see the conclusion of this motion for a resolution on which we have been working since the beginning of the year and which deals with the deployment of the European disability map. This map was launched in 2016 at European level and since its inception Belgium has been part of the pilot experience. Its objective is to promote the inclusion of persons with disabilities in all aspects of life: mobility, sport or any other socio-cultural activity. Free of charge, the European Disability Card offers a range of advantages both in Belgium and in the seven other European states currently participating in the project. In practice, however, this card is not known and recognized by both potential service providers and the beneficiaries themselves. In fact, 642 providers are now recognized, 70 municipalities participate and only 14% of people with disabilities have access to them. It's totally insufficient. I would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleague Lanjri for initiating this project, which aims to raise awareness of this device, but also to broaden the scope. The work in committee has resulted in the collection of a broad list of opinions proposing new recommendations. Working with the Minister responsible for this jurisdiction has been undertaken to develop a text that is more broadly aligned with the Federal Disability Action Plan 2021-2024. It was necessary to define priorities, to think about how to improve and increase communication in order to raise awareness of the European Disability Card, to redefine the target group, to broaden the framework for use and to rethink the coordination between the different levels of power or to make accessibility to public transport more fluid. The issue of carding automation does not seem to be resolved. While this may seem a good idea, not all opinions agree on this point. Indeed, some people may feel stigmatized and may not want to dispose of them. This choice must also be respected, which is why the government will have to study the issue of automatic allocation in collaboration with the Higher Council for Persons with Disabilities and other stakeholders representing the sector. If this motion for a resolution is adopted – and I think you will all support it as it was supported during the work in committee – I am convinced that the necessary adjustments will be made quickly at government level to improve the participation of people with disabilities in society.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u103	We shall be the last to allow the initiator, Mrs Lanjri, to take the floor. It will shortly explain the implementation of this motion for a resolution. On behalf of the N-VA Group, I would like to express our support for this initiative. Former Secretary of State Zuhal Demir has also played a role in initiating discussions on this subject. However, it is also something where there are still a lot of questions and which deserves even more attention and impact. That was the intention of this initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u104	Colleagues, going to the cinema, attending a concert or visiting the urban swimming bed is obvious to us. We do these things when we feel like it. However, this is not the case for people with disabilities. They must get out of such a car well in advance and plan very meticulously. They wonder how they can get there, whether they can go there with a wheelchair and whether their guide can accompany them. If their disability is not visible, they wonder if they will have to explain again that they have a disability. People with disabilities very often clash with prejudice and discrimination when they participate in activities. The European Disability Card, the European Disability Card, was launched in 2017. This card was also introduced in our country and it promotes the inclusion of people with disabilities in the fields of sport, culture and leisure. On display of that card they can enjoy all kinds of advantages. For example, a form of guidance can be provided. It can be ppl about a discount, but also about making a wheelchair available, about adapted brochures in Braille or about a custom guided tour for the blind and visually impaired in a museum, with specially trained guides. With the map one can prove that one has a disability. Of course, it is up to the initiators to decide which benefits are linked to it or which guidance is linked to it, depending on the need they see themselves. Outside Belgium, the map can already be used today in seven other countries, namely Italy, Finland, Malta, Cyprus, Estonia, Romania and Slovenia. It is, of course, intended to extend the use of this card to all Member States. It is a European disability card and it is therefore an important tool for removing social barriers for people with disabilities. This EDC card still suffers from a number of growing pains and still has a lot of potential left unused today. Today, the European map is not yet sufficiently known. Only one in seven people with disabilities use it. The number of organizations using the card in our country is also quite limited. It concerns 642 service providers, including Bellewaerde, Bokrijk, Zoo Antwerpen and a number of local sports clubs. Only 12% of Belgian municipalities today accept this EDC card. Services also often leave a lot to be desired. The objective of this resolution, which I tabled last summer, is threefold. Firstly, with this resolution, we want the EDC card to be made much more widely known, both by people with disabilities and by local authorities and service providers, who can use it. We want to achieve that through targeted information campaigns, through a good website................................................................................................................................................ A price or a label can also be worked out. Many initiatives can also be launched with the partners active in the field, including the National High Council for Persons with Disability. Secondly, we want to ensure that the European Disability Card is used in more domains than it is today. Today it is used in the areas of leisure, sport and culture, but it can also be used more widely, for example in terms of mobility, when taking the train or tram, in terms of care and assistance, when faced with an ambulance who does not know that there is a handicap, in terms of economics, security and so on. In these sectors, too, the card can provide real leverage and serve as an instrument for moving towards a more inclusive society for people with disabilities. For example, catering operators and shopkeepers could grant certain benefits to people who have an EDC, such as no longer waiting in a queue. It's just an example. The resolution states that we want to look with the sector at what can be linked to the map, because the possibilities are actually vast. Thirdly, we want to make sure that the EDC card can be requested much easier than it is today. Today they can be applied for from one of the five institutions responsible for persons with disabilities, but we want to extend them to health insurance funds, municipal services and OCMWs, so that the card can also be applied for by this way. It has already been suggested that the card could also be automatically allocated to anyone who has a disability. We want at least to see whether this is possible and desirable and to be informed automatically that the card can be obtained. The EDC card helps people to participate fully in our society and encourages people with disabilities to use all kinds of sports, leisure and culture services. However, we believe that further roll-out of the map to the whole of society and all services can only enhance that effect of inclusion. The CD&V Group is therefore very pleased that we will soon be able to adopt the motion for a resolution. After all, the EDC can be an additional building block of an inclusive society. I only need to thank all the colleagues of the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions for their constructive cooperation on this resolution. I would like to thank both the majority colleagues, who finally signed the resolution, and the colleagues from the opposition, who have worked very constructively and provided their input. All this has led to the unanimous adoption of the resolution in committee. I would also, of course, like to thank the sector and the many organisations in the field that work with people with disabilities. They have also given very valuable advice that we have incorporated into the resolution. This resolution is an important first step forward. As Mr Delizée said, there is still work to be done, not only for the relevant Minister Lalieux, but also for all the other ministers responsible for implementing an inclusive policy for their area. They need to take initiatives for their domain so that the European Disability Card can be further rolled out. We should only have one thing in mind: the full inclusion of people with disabilities. I want to thank you for your cooperation and for the confidence in the resolution later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u105	Madam President, the PVDA fully supports this resolution. The many Belgians with disabilities, young and old, must all be able to fit in. We need to ensure that they can all work out, enjoy culture and participate in all the leisure activities they want to attend. Making the European Disability Card more public, expanding and facilitating the application can certainly contribute to this. We have heard it, the debates in committee and certainly the many opinions were in any case particularly educational. I therefore hope that the government will take into account some of the important comments that have been made when implementing the measures contained in the resolution. Minister Lalieux rightly reminded us of the responsibilities of the regional authorities, responsible for sport, culture and leisure. It is up to them to ensure that activities on the ground are easily accessible. Only then can the card be used on a large scale. Cooperation will therefore be necessary, and I would like to emphasise this, and I am counting on it. The French-speaking Conseil National des Personnes Handicapées warns us that the government must make this happen on the ground itself. Beautiful websites will not solve this problem. I hope that the governments will take a very practical approach to this and will not confine themselves to merely blitz communication. I will conclude with an important reflection of the Flemish Agency for People with Disabilities. In substance, the question arises as to whether this card can effectively contribute to a more inclusive society for people with disabilities. Very good work, but let us ensure that this resolution contributes to real results for the people. Let us, above all, continue to take the issue to heart and do more.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u106	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat what I said in committee. That's not the point. So I will be very brief. However, I would also like to be particularly grateful for the initiative that has been taken. It was necessary. Indeed, people must be able to participate fully in society. They often collide with limits where we do not stand still. People with disabilities face many obstacles. For us, they are often self-evident. That is why we do not always think about it. The EDC needs to get settled in. This must be done without thresholds and with the widest possible scope of application. Everyone has received e-mails with testimonies that are very poignant. They show that it is unacceptable in our society that people are colliding at all kinds of limits in this area. This also shows that there really is a need for a broad promotional campaign for the EDC. In this way, we must ensure that it is known in almost all sectors. That's very important. It is also important that this can be done in a simple and automatic way. I would like to thank Mrs Lanjri, also for the amendments. I am thinking, for example, of the amendment on the toilet card for people with disabilities, which has been added to the proposal, in order to remove the obstacles in this area too. Our group and I will therefore wholeheartedly support the resolution before us. Thank you for the initiative. You can count on our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will take you back in time. On 11 March 2021, we adopted Article 22b of the Constitution by a large majority in the Chamber, but unfortunately not unanimously. That new constitutional article states that any person with disabilities should have the right to full inclusion in society, including the right to reasonable adjustments. It should be said that the EDC card launched by the European Commission in October 2017 which aims to promote the inclusion of people with disabilities is very well reflected in that constitutional review. In this respect, I would like to thank Mrs Lanjri. The objective of this resolution is threefold: the broadest possible publication of the EDC card to service providers and users, the facilitation of the application procedure and an extension of the scope. We fully support this three-pronged objective. It is regrettable to note, despite the introduction in 2017, that far too few service providers and users who own or use the card today, all the more so when we know that Belgium was and is still one of the eight pilot countries. I would like to highlight four more points. Firstly, the EDC card is not sufficiently known today. That is why we in our group considered it important to insist on the speedy implementation of the general information campaign. An improved website should also be developed soon. Secondly, the extension of the scope and automatic allocation must certainly be examined. However, the fact that the card is limited in duration also affects a number of people. For those in whom a lifetime restriction has been established, the limited life of the card is absurd. Thirdly, besides the EDC card, there are other cards. I mention the bathroom pass and also the pass. It is important that these cards are integrated, that they are linked together. Fourthly, in addition to the challenge to raise awareness and make it more accessible to users, it is very important to really encourage service providers to invest in accessibility in a sustainable way and in accordance with minimum standards. Hence the request to examine, in addition to the annual price surveys, the possibility or feasibility of a label. Inclusion and reasonable adjustment have been a fundamental right for us since March 11, 2021. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has therefore wholeheartedly signed this resolution, which aims to promote inclusion, and will be very much in favour of it in the near future, and which will be supported by the EDC Fan Team, which has put a great deal of effort into moving us towards it. We also very much hope that in the long term there will be a strong European legal framework that will be developed for this EDC and that we will be able to be a tractor again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u108	Madam President, everything that can help to strengthen the inclusion of people with disabilities and to combat discrimination against them must of course be supported and strengthened. Mrs Lanjri, we welcome your initiative and we will be happy to support it. In fact, this European map is insufficiently known and distributed. It can therefore show insufficiently and produce its positive effects. And sometimes it's the simplest things that make it possible to move forward. Only seven hundred municipalities throughout Belgium have deployed this map for persons with disabilities but also for the services they can use. If all the members of our assembly (150) make it known in their commune and to the services and providers, this will advance the schmilblick. Colleagues, let us live this map in our commune and we will make it even better for people with disabilities tomorrow to have access to and benefit from it. Moreover, those of us living near a border should benefit neighbouring countries, which would make it possible to move this project forward in a more important way at European level for the greater benefit of people with disabilities. As I have just said, we will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u109	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u110	The rapporteur, Mr Demon, referred to the written report. Mr Loones has the floor in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u111	Madam President, Mr Francken is on his way to the plenary. Before starting the debate, I would like to begin by thanking Secretary of State Mahdi for coming back to the plenary session. It is a good thing for him, as usual, to enter into the debate on his own draft laws. We ourselves did not insist on organising the debate this afternoon. Our proposal was to hold the debate next week, but we thank the Secretary of State for his presence so that we can have the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u112	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to return to this bill, presumably your last act as Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. We have already discussed it in committee, but I have a few comments to make. Firstly, let us take a look back at your 21 months as Secretary of State and at the draft laws that you have submitted in the Chamber and which have been approved here. It concerns a draft law regulating the residence status of British citizens in Belgium after the Brexit. There was also a draft law transposing a Student Directive, in particular on the status of researchers and volunteers. This was the transposition of a directive, which is mandatory for Europe. There was then a draft law on the introduction of disciplinary proceedings and the evaluation of judges at the Council of Foreign Ministers and the extension of the judicial framework. That was a copy-paste of our bill filed on October 27, 2021. Finally, there was a draft law amending the medical form, the draft law now before us. So you have brought four draft laws to the Chamber in 21 months. That is a particularly low result. Our group has tabled a lot of legislative proposals and we would have expected some openness. In our view, these legislative proposals went to the heart of the matter. The things that you have brought here, on the other hand, are not bad, of course, but they need to be dealt with, but they do not solve anything structurally when it comes to asylum and migration policy in this country. Our bill on the revocation of nationality in the event of terrorism has been voted down. The bill to criminalise ascension in trucks has also been voted down. The legislative proposal amending the Reception Act on the reception of certain categories of asylum seekers, Union citizens and Dublin cases was voted down. The very important legislative proposal amending the conditions for family reunification was voted down. The draft law amending the introduction of the preparatory process for integration and basic language knowledge, the contribution of the country of origin, was voted down. The draft law amending the 1980 law on family reunification for the subsidiary protected by setting up a quota or introducing a stop was voted down. A bill on the conviction of partner violence was voted down. A resolution on the National Bank's study on the economic impact of migration was voted down. Finally, the motion for a resolution implementing the Committee's recommendations on the evaluation of voluntary return policies and the forced expulsion of foreigners was also voted off. You came up with four draft laws that are absolutely necessary, but which do not really address the essence of the matter. They also do not address the problems in the field. After all, you are facing very serious problems. The shelter's all over the place. The number of Dublin cases can no longer be counted. You have weekly, almost daily convictions. You also have huge periodic penalty payments. The essence of the story is that in those 21 months you have actually come up with absolutely nothing that fundamentally alters the legislative framework on migration. That makes us very sad. The promises you made were promising and very ambitious. Among other things, you promised no more chaos regarding asylum in your first film and in your policy paper. You then had five or seven priorities. One of them was to stop the asylum chaos. The asylum chaos has never been this big. The asylum budget has never been so large. The number of convictions and the number of periodic penalty payments reach sad records. Another promise was a legal framework with respect for human rights. You insinuated that there was no respect for that among your predecessors. You would re-establish respect for human rights. I believe that the labour court in Brussels has a different opinion on this. After all, you have been convicted 740 times, this year alone. It's probably over 800 times by now. That balance is therefore particularly low. I therefore find it very exemplary that this bill is your final achievement. It is nothing at all. It concerns the publication of the medical questionnaire in the context of 9b treatments. I pulled the numbers. That is a good thing, because you have greatly increased the information about the Foreign Affairs Office on migration on the website. There is therefore a lot more transparency and information. There will also be faster updates so that is very good. I certainly support you in that, but this should also happen. However, we can also monitor everything well. Then it's the other side of the coin. Therefore, if one looks at the 9th applications per year and per procedure, it can be seen that in 2021 there were 1,156 applications. That's a drop in itself. So the number continues to fall, and I think that is a good thing. When we look at the number of final decisions, we are also at 1,148. So I could argue that we're pretty good on the 9th. I think that one of the main reasons for this is the introduction of the medical questionnaire and the medical filter. I was the author of this long ago in 2010 with Mrs Smeyers. I think Sander was still working for the Department of Foreign Affairs' Legal Service back then. We've come a long way. Then we were able to put a stop to the unstoppable power of 9ter requests. Those were mainly people whose 9a was rejected and who then submitted a new 9b. So we made a medical questionnaire and there was a lot of commotion about that. She was also challenged before the Constitutional Court and even went to the European Court if I am not mistaken. We've all won those procedures. Mr Wathelet was a virulent opponent at the time, but he did succeed in the end. I have had to read it twice to believe it, but all you wanted to do is to ensure that the medical questionnaire should no longer be submitted to the Council of Ministers, that it should therefore no longer be dealt with in the nuclear cabinet, and that the DVZ itself can make any adjustments to the form. I didn't know this was a hot issue. I didn't know there was a problem. That is still not clear to me, by the way. Why should this be put into a separate draft law? If I understand correctly, the Council of State has even whistled you back. They say that you cannot let the DVZ do this, the competent Secretary of State or Minister should always do so himself. In its opinion, the Council of State welcomed the amendment of the law, since the King and the Minister concerned are still subject to parliamentary control and therefore there is no constitutional problem of delegation of this power to the Minister or Secretary of State responsible. So it is not the case that the DVZ can do this, always through the King and thus through the delegation to the Minister. So what you initially intended wasn't even officially retrieved. It still has to be done through the competent Secretary of State. The procedure is now a little less cumbersome, but there is not really a problem either. Of course, we have no objection to this bill in itself. After all, what can one have against that? Our question remains, however, what is the urgency of this. Why do you come up with this mini-law design? What's so important about this? That is absolutely not clear to us. Why is this not brought into a bigger story, in which you integrate a number of other things? You say this is done on the advice of the Administrative Simplification Service. So why didn't you ask the Administrative Simplification Service for advice on other procedures that can also be sent directly to the King's delegate or delegate? These are some points which I am still not clear on, Mr Secretary of State. Hence my questions. I understand it's been difficult for you to come here. You were apparently apologized for having to go to the JHA Council in Luxembourg. However, that message had not arrived. I shall therefore be brief. For us, this draft could also be discussed next week, but that was apparently problematic. So let's do it now. I hope you're not too late in Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u113	If Parliament calls, I come. I'd have come next week, too. You're following politics very closely. You write a lot about it, too. You've been working on it a lot. So you also knew there was a meeting, but that's not a problem. I'd be happy to go to Luxembourg later. If I can serve Parliament, I serve Parliament. I am not always blowing the tower's ass over the new political culture, which sometimes gives you the creeps. I just expected that there might be ways of getting things sorted out so that it didn't have to be done this way. It is a little faint, especially since we have already discussed this in committee this week, but that is not a problem. Apparently, you didn't listen. You were present. The discussion we had then was about GDPR and GDPR procedures, whereby the medical certificate had to be brought into line with GDPR regulations. That was supposed to happen before May 2018. That was the period in which you were the competent Secretary of State. For me it could happen already in May 2018, but it happened a bit later. I didn't want the urgency. I'm just establishing this. You say that I had a plan to do this through administrative simplification and that my plan has therefore failed. Above all, look at which directives Europe has and how they should be implemented. Also take into account the administrative simplification that is now in place. We have known a time when Asylum and Migration and administrative simplification were also under the same post and have created opportunities for administrative simplification on Asylum and Migration. That's not the case right now, but we're going to work. We will ensure that these procedures are complied with. That is why I was not called to the Chamber. You yourself say it's a small thing and you're not against it. You will probably majority with your entire group. It was you to do, I think, but you may contradict me every five minutes. Cut, facebook and tell them I didn't do anything. That's what it was about. I did not say that next year there is a closed center in Zandvliet and a year later in Chimay. I didn't say that. You did. The plans have been rolled out. The budget is here. The center in Steenokkerzeel is rolled out. That's what we do. I didn't say at the beginning of the legislature that I'm going to work on a migration code, not to write a letter, not a letter, nothing, nada, nope. That was you. The RvV has signed some things and the Foreign Affairs Department has done some things here and there, but you yourself have done 0.0. There was more clenbuterol in Contador's blood than the number of letters you wrote for the migration code. You spoke of returning. You always love to talk about it. I understand that, because return is the Achilles heel of migration policy, this needs work. You will also note that a great deal of legislation has happened in this area in the previous legislature, where we have worked well together. You often complain that you didn't have a budget. You even say you're a little jealous of the budget we have. I know your party a little bit by now, it is a very offensive party that believes in its own ability, which exerts pressure to bring in the points that are important to the party. Asylum and Migration is an important department. This government has decided to invest historically in the Department, in the Department of Foreign Affairs, in the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. Mr Francken, I know, and that makes you a little nervous, you have a world record that could possibly be broken. You have the world record reception. It's in your name. And nervousness is increasing, because that world record may be broken. That could make a person nervous. I hope this doesn't have to be done. I hope that we will be able to deal with files more quickly through the Commissioner-General so that people can get out more quickly. In the past, decisions have been taken, people have been saved on staff. And you say that this was the decision of Kris Peeters, because that Kris Peeters was the almighty god who determined what happened, that the N-VA is a small party that can't do anything, that Kris Peeters determined it, and that you saved on staff. Then you did communicate that there was savings on Asylum and Migration. Well, I guess I could. Theo Francken had to save on Asylum and Migration, but Kris Peeters was responsible for that! I find that striking. I'm trying to work on a structural policy that this department needs. If you'd like to have conversations about the past few years, I'd be delighted to join you. I would also like to have arrived in Luxembourg in time to fight for an asylum and migration policy. We both know how important the elimination of system errors is. We may differ in the way in which this should be done, but we both know that controls are necessary at the external borders, because the current migration policy is totally flattering. You're asking me to be here to talk to you about the medical certificate. I think so, because I have not received any questions except a misinterpretation of the facts that I have just corrected. For the rest, I thought it was an interesting debate. It was interesting to discuss asylum and migration, and we will probably discuss it in the coming months. I look forward to further discussions and I hope that we can continue to take many initiatives. There is work to be done in this department, but I do not know whether this is part of the discussion of this bill. I like to debate and, as you know, we can talk for hours in committee, we have that in common. However, I do react because I find it frustrating that I am close to the end of my term of office, so I can speak freely that when it comes to proposals, even from the opposition, from your colleague, who is behind you, I am often one of the first to say that one should not be faint. Work on another political culture, in which one does not play games and where one does not call to one another that one did not know! Firstly, despite the fact that your party often flies around this issue, it then looks very closely at it in the Flemish Parliament and in the Flemish Government. I can see that, too. You're a person, and so am I. I can only say that I regret that. I find that a frustrating way of doing politics. I had hoped that politics could be different, with the new generation, but I find that is the game and then I play along. I note that there was a need for discussion about Asylum and Migration and then I will join in the debate. We'll see each other again. You may call me back next week, I will be back and I will be very happy to answer all your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u114	Mr Secretary of State, first of all, you misunderstood. Your bill is on the agenda of the plenary session and the shift is that the Secretary of State or the Minister is present in the discussion of a draft law itself. If that is not the case, then it can be applied for. An apology has been made through the secretariat of your cabinet and the services of the Chamber...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Yesterday at 3 p.m. an e-mail was sent by the services of the Chamber stating that nine members of the government would be absent. That's a record, I think. I do not think that half of the government has ever been absent, even more from the ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u115	Where's Jambon?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u116	It is bringing in 400 million euros for the Flemish economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u117	So there are nine members of the government absent and you were not reported absent. I don't know why that is. If you want to be absent, please have it reported. If you can only stay until 5:00 p.m., because you have to go to the JHA Council. I knew you didn't. That is your responsibility and the services of the Chamber must then pass it on to the Members of Parliament, so that we know who will be present when. When I heard that you could not be here because you had to go to Luxembourg, I immediately said, together with Mr Loones, that the discussion could also continue for us next week. The European debate on migration is important and it is necessary for Belgium to raise its voice there. I did it myself. Now that you're being accused of being late in Luxembourg because I'm actually asking you to actually suggest that you do it next week, I think it's completely intellectually unfair. I didn't insist that you come back for me next week, but if you couldn't be here, you had to report what you didn't do. There is nothing I can do about that, so that you can contact your secretariat yourself or see what happened. Not my bad, not my default. There's nothing we can do about that. Take care of your business. I saw you, too. You're here to answer questions, but I didn't know you had to leave immediately after that. How could I have known? I couldn't have known that, could I? I find it strange to blame the opposition for that. Then, in connection with your proposal. You say that we should have done this in 2018 within the framework of the GPR. You come here now with a very small bill. I think that's weird. Then why did you wait 21 months to come up with this? If you say I could have done it in 2018, you've been in power for 21 months.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u118	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u119	Does the State Council need 21 months? In any case, it is a strange argument to blame it on me and then to wait 21 months with it. My second point remains the question of why administrative simplification is then applied. I've done a number of things, but there's still a lot of administrative simplification for the whole government, whether it's local, federal, European or Flemish. One can always simplify administratively, and that is also necessary. You can also do a lot more online. I'm already glad that the form is also available online. If we have such a small bill, why not ask for enlargement and add a number of things to it? Having a whole around administrative simplification seems much more logical to me. You also made other comments on the policy I have pursued. You're happy to do that. I'm happy to do that, too. So let's talk about that. You indicate that I am nervous, because you may break my record on the asylum budget. I don't see why I should be nervous about that. Firstly, it is a definite fact that you will break that budget record, as far as it is a record. This was in a context of a European asylum crisis and therefore in a completely different context. There is no European asylum crisis now. There is a Belgian asylum crisis, which you have brought about over yourself, by not pursuing a betrayal policy and by pursuing a policy that does not focus at all on what needs to be betrayed. I don't think your coalition partners can do that. I don't know. Mr. Mahdi, take it easy. You'll be able to answer in a moment. You're here now. That's not a problem. I'll be here all night. In any case, I can only conclude that under your policy, the asylum budget has gone completely out of control and that we are moving towards a new record in a context that is completely different from the 2015-2016 context. You also point out that Mr Peeters has stopped this. That's right. At that time, there was no majority in the core to ensure that staff could stay longer. We have talked about this a hundred times. You are now saying that you have additional staff reinforcements. They're coming in, too. It all takes time. Meanwhile, however, 20,000 people are waiting for an asylum decision. That's very regrettable. So where is the progress on asylum decisions? After all, it remains particularly thin. You say that in the field of return, you ensure that there is money and that decisions are made. However, your returns are dramatic. I know that the corona crisis in this area is partly an excuse. That's right, but that doesn't mean the numbers are really bad. I don't think they've ever been so bad. You note that you will make sure that the master plan is there and that you never promised that it would be there within a year, and that you do not know if you have ever promised that Zandvliet would open within the year. Mr Mahdi, I do remember your promise, at the beginning of your term of office, to open two additional closed centres by the end of the term of office, in Zandvliet and Jumet. At that time, I asked the Secretary of State responsible for the Directorate of Buildings, Mr Michel, if that timing is realistic. He replied that these centres could never open before the end of the legislature. I have then confronted you with that reply from the competent State Secretary for the Buildings Control, who is to coordinate the construction work. At that time, you stated in plenary that you would have a good conversation with him in order to make that possible. A few weeks ago, you communicated that those two centres will open between 2027 and 2029. If you claim that I have not kept certain promises, then at least you have. We all want to speed up the construction of public buildings such as prisons and asylum centres. The opening of a closed center takes time. That should be remedied, because that is terribly frustrating. There is no good policy because there is a huge delay due to all kinds of procedures. There should be a thorough examination at the relevant levels of how an urgent procedure can be used for urgent matters of social importance. We've been trying to set the Migration Code in motion. That didn't work. You haven't been able to do that either. We'll see what comes out of the bus at your end. Nor will it be under your mandate, although you have promised to complete your term as Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u120	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u121	You're a little nervous too, Mr Mahdi. Maybe you're waiting for that European meeting, but you seem nervous. Anyway, you're gone now and we'll see if your successor will succeed. That will then be the fourth Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration to deal with the Migration Code, because the first plans for it date from Mrs De Block. In the fifth term, since there was the intermezzo with Mrs De Block, there will hopefully be a Migration Code. However, the code itself is not enough; it is, of course, about the content of the code. What exactly will it say? You have had a number of guidelines approved by the nuclear cabinet, I saw, and I do not know if they are so reassuring. That remains to be seen. I'm sure we're looking forward to it, but is this gonna solve all the problems? I'm afraid it won't be that simple. It can of course be a step in the right direction, but let us first get some hands on something here in the Chamber. Then we can look at it quietly and discuss it in Parliament. Mr Mahdi, your passage on Asylum and Migration was disappointing in terms of the figures. I'm sure you don't think so. With corona, of course, you've also been through a certain period...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u122	Mr Francken, Mr De Vriendt is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u123	Mr Francken, I hear you making the evaluation of Mr Mahdi on Asylum and Migration. However, I do not see any budget debate on Asylum and Migration on the agenda. I do see a draft law amending the law of 15 December 1980 on Article 9b. Madam President, may I ask you to ensure that the speakers stick to the items on the agenda? It will be a major debate on asylum and migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u124	Madam President, I am also concerned because it has been half an hour since I heard about the balance sheet, the old balance sheet and the new balance sheet. I have already heard this five times in the Committee on the Interior, the same speech all the time, and I am waiting for a model of a medical certificate to be discussed. That is the subject of the discussion now. When are we going to talk about it? In an hour? We can repeat the same thing all the time. We can do it once. Everyone understands, but ten times, it's amazing! I've heard this speech ten times before. It's getting tiring! It's very interesting but after a number of times, it's no longer possible and yet, I'm making the effort to listen. No, I'm sorry, we have to stop. Please talk about the subject!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u125	Madam President, I like a debate in Parliament. I've been listening. What struck me was that Mr Francken framed the bill in the legislative agenda of the Secretary of State and that the Secretary of State then opened the debate on the migration code and the measures. I have noted a statement from him: "We are working on structural policies that our department has such a need for." It seems logical to me that Parliament should be able to replicate what a State Secretary brings in. For the record, I look forward to the budget debate. It may have escaped colleagues' attention, but last minute an amendment has been tabled to the budget, which reduces the budget for the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless by half a million, of which EUR 1.9 million less for IT, the information technology of the Commissioner-General, while the Secretary of State says here that he stands for a structural policy to which his department has such a need. If the Secretary of State opens the debate, I think it would be logical for the Chamber to be able to replicate it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u126	The Secretary of State has not opened the debate, it has already been opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I was actually done. I said what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u128	It's perfect. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u129	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2704/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2704/3) The title in French has been amended by the committee to "draft law amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on access to the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of aliens with regard to the determination of the model of medical certificate to be used compulsory when applying for a residence permit on the basis of Article 9ter". Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in "Bill amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, residence, establishment and removal of aliens with regard to the determination of the model medical certificate to be used compulsory when applying for residence on the basis of Article 9ter". The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u130	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u131	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Catherine Fonck, Valerie Van Peel, Chanelle Bonaventure, Florence Reuter, Marie-Colline Leroy, Nathalie Muylle, Tania De Jonge, Anja Vanrobaeys.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u132	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Vanrobaeys, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u133	Madam President, I will be brief, but I would like to repeat what I said in committee. This is a proposal from Mr Fonck which I have signed and which I fully support. I would like to express my respect for Mr Fonck here in the presence of everyone, because she is someone who, after all these years, dares to hope for some common sense from the opposition. I have already said this in committee, but I think all colleagues should hear it. Once in a while, she's successful, as in this case. I would like to congratulate her on that. The subject was a bit sensitive, because it came in the week after another vote on the same dossier, but then with a different approach. On the other hand, I am simply pleased that Mr Fonck has been able to bring her success into a dossier that is very important for a lot of people and that is much more sensitive than some here realize. On this one, congratulations to Mrs. Fonck. Let's all give her a round of applause. (Applause) (Applause)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u134	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we had a long debate last week on the issues of asbestos victims. I will not go back to all the important issues that have been raised in the specific case of asbestos victims. Everyone agrees that they are of great importance and that the consequences for the citizens who are affected are terrible. On the other hand, I would like to take the opportunity of this discussion to recall the importance of the recognition of occupational diseases in a broad sense. Our system is split in two. On the one hand, there is a list of diseases for which a causal link is presumed. We see, with this project and the long journey it has made, how laborious it is to add a disease to this list, and the consequences it has for the sick, especially the victims of asbestos. On the other hand, there is a so-called open system, which is, in fact, a true combatant's journey for workers who wish to have their illness recognized as a professional. Today, 90% to 95% of applications submitted are refused by FEDRIS. However, when legal remedies are introduced, in more than 50% of cases the patient wins against FEDRIS. That is the magnitude of the problem. How has it been that the scientific and objective criteria are applied by the labour courts rather than by the administration? We can talk about discrimination, because it is still necessary for the worker to have the means, the energy and the support to start legal proceedings. More and more complex and opaque criteria appear to be applied to complicate access to compensation for occupational diseases. Also recently, the Liège Labour Court issued a judgment condemning FEDRIS's practices, which in recent months has taken the decision to split recognition for certain occupational diseases according to the location of the injury. The term "indemnification" refers to a worker differently depending on whether the loss of capacity is in the left or right limbs, or both. In its judgment, the Court stated that: "FEDRIS's argument that each seat of injury should be compensated separately amounts to artificially splitting and thus reducing the impact of the overall injury on the victim's ability to work, resulting from an occupational disease." Thus, to take an extreme example, when a person loses the use of an eye as a result of an accident at work or an occupational disease, and then of the second, it is ultimately necessary to compensate for the total loss of sight, and not to retain a simple doubling of the consequences resulting from the loss of an eye. So we're here. I think I am realistic in speaking here of an obvious failure of the current system, which would deserve a thorough reform. It is now necessary to understand why and how such practices are being achieved and, above all, to revise the relevant legislation. Moreover, it is a matter which has been dealt with by the 21st century Commission for the Reform of Occupational Diseases, but whose report has so far remained a dead letter. I will be asking the minister about this shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u135	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, last week we discussed the need to adapt the Asbestos Fund and its policies. We are thinking of immunity for asbestos companies which still exist, the level of compensation for diseases and the scandalous financing of this fund. Unfortunately, these are three issues that were raised last week, but were rejected by the majority of this plenary. Another necessary amendment to this legislation is the list of recoverable diseases. The honour goes to Mr Fonck because she had already tabled an amendment to the previous draft law and had also submitted it separately. It is good that it was approved in the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions and that it will soon be given a majority in this plenary. The extension to ovarian cancer of the list of recoverable diseases related to asbestos is also an improvement and benefits the many asbestos victims. Women are sick because of direct and indirect exposure to asbestos. They are, for example, workers in asbestos-processing or recyclable companies, but they are sometimes also indirect victims. In fact, when mother does the laundry of workers in asbestos-processing firms, she can also come into contact with it and develop ovarian cancer. After today, she is therefore eligible for compensation from the Asbestos Fund. Furthermore, I hope this is not the end. Unfortunately, we rejected the other proposal last week. I hope that the Members of this House and the committee will keep their word and that the other amendments, such as Mr Van Peel's proposal, will still be adopted in the coming year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased with my group to have co-signed and supported this proposal, which will finally pave the way for compensation for women with ovarian cancer following exposure to asbestos. This proposal has been voted unanimously and shows the goodwill of everyone when it comes to working for the right cause, and that is why we are all here. It will have taken time, too much time! Indeed, after the creation of the Asbestos Victims Compensation Fund 15 years ago, and its expansion to several other compensable diseases, ovarian cancer was still not on the list. Yet asbestos has been recognized as a carcinogen for the ovary since 2009 by the International Cancer Research Centre (IARC), which Ms Fonck reminded us in committee. Women exposed to asbestos, particularly in the textile manufacturing sector, the manufacture or exploitation of certain materials such as cement, the cleaning of working clothes, are at risk of ovarian cancer increasing by 77%. It was therefore extremely important to give these women recognition, to avoid administrative burdens and to be compensated properly, especially since all the visionaries were in the green, since both the Higher Council of Health and Fedris gave a positive opinion to the proposal and the Council of Ministers has already approved a royal decree to this effect. These patients' records will benefit from faster treatment and, as a result, compensation will also be faster. This is excellent news and I would like to thank Mrs Fonck for her work and that of all colleagues leading this proposal to the vote today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u137	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it was only logical for the CD&V to support Madame Fonck's proposal and add ovarian cancer to the list of diseases reimbursed for asbestos victims after exposure to asbestos. In committee, it has been well discussed that there is enough scientific evidence to demonstrate that link today. Our colleagues also laid this down in the European Parliament in October 2021. What we are voting here today is in line with the resolution we voted on then. In that sense, it is a very logical step for the CD&V to support this. I would also like to thank the Minister. After all, he also had to make a technical adjustment by adding the disease to the CED occupational diseases. This technical adjustment was necessary in order to allow this proposal to continue. For the CD&V, therefore, an important step has been taken, especially in the compensation for the victims of ovarian cancer. They will also be reimbursed by the fund. I myself am very limited, with the health cover. Mrs Lanjri, in particular, is following the problem of asbestos in the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions. It has been repeatedly said that important steps have been taken. This is a new important step, but this is definitely not an end. The discussions that have taken place over the last few weeks and months, in which Mrs van Peel, in particular, has taken a great deal of initiative, must not stop. They have to go on. For the CD&V, the overall evaluation of the Asbestos Fund is really necessary. Hopefully we will also have support in this, so that we can take further steps there. I would like to thank everyone and all my colleagues for this initiative. This shows that this room can work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u138	Madam President, we will also support this proposal. Our country has been one of the largest consumers of asbestos plates in the world for many years. For decades it has been known that the inhalation of asbestos fibres can lead to death by cancer. Hundreds of people have been victims of asbestos or have lost relatives to asbestos cancer. People who have worked with asbestos or who have lived near an asbestos processing plant live in fear of being affected by the dreaded cancers caused by asbestos. Today lung cancer, lung cancer, larynx cancer and dust lung have been recognised as diseases that are the direct result of asbestos exposure. Ovarian cancer has not yet been recognised. This bill also adds ovarian cancer to the list. These are women who have been exposed as workers, residents of the neighbourhood or consumers by companies who, in their desire for maximum profit, have gone to the hole in order to continue making and selling their harmful products. Under pressure from the asbestos lobby - companies such as Eternit, CVC and others - a general ban on the processing of asbestos into building materials was introduced only in 1998. That was really not long ago. The people concerned became ill because of the irresponsibility of a system that takes profit for health. And yet, and that's the pity, it won't be like Eternit who will compensate someone with ovarian cancer. No, that will be done by the Asbestos Fund. The responsible asbestos producers and processors contribute as much to the Asbestos Fund as a baker in Blankenberge or an SME somewhere in the country. It is financed by 0.01 % of the total gross wage mass. This is far from the polluter pays principle. We believe that there is still a long way to go for the recovery and recognition of asbestos victims, but this proposal is moving in the right direction. We therefore support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, there is broad agreement among all the groups that the Asbestos Fund is and remains an essential instrument for helping victims of asbestos. In this way, they are helped quickly, they can receive fair compensation and the burden of proof is much less severe than would be the case in court. This bill aims to add ovarian cancer to the list of diseases reimbursed by the Asbestos Fund. Indeed, there is more and more international research that shows a link between exposure to asbestos and this type of cancer. Fedris has also given a positive opinion, which allows ovarian cancer to be added to the list of diseases that can be compensated by the Asbestos Fund. We are very pleased with that. We would also like to thank Mrs Fonck very much for this initiative. We will give our full support to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u140	We would also like to thank Mrs Fonck very much for this initiative. You submitted it first as an amendment and later as a separate legislative proposal. I think this is important because it adds ovarian cancer to the list of diseases reimbursed by the Asbestos Fund. It is logical that we should support this, because it has been clear for longer than today that ovarian cancer can be caused by asbestos. Women with ovarian cancer can get this through contact with asbestos at work or by doing the laundry of their partner who has been in contact with asbestos. I would like to thank not only Mrs Fonck, but also Minister Vandenbroucke, who has contributed to this project. He also extended the list of occupational diseases to include three diseases: when cancer is caused by exposure to radiation by welding, when cancer is caused by the inhalation of silica dust and when ovarian cancer is caused by asbestos. This will make this bill practically applicable and will allow victims to count on fair compensation without too much burden of proof and paperwork. That is today's most important message and a major step forward for the victims. I should therefore like to thank all my fellow Members for their cooperation. In any case, it shows to me that, over majority and opposition, we can take steps forward in such cases to help people when they need it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u141	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen – I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but it is the women who have expressed themselves above all – I really want to thank you because the opposition regularly votes with the majority but, admittedly, the majority, and even more so when it comes to a bill, do not vote, so to speak, with the opposition or in favour of a text of the opposition. Here, and I'm thinking maybe it's because women wanted to move for other women, you agreed to leave this majority position so that we could do this job for women, the ones we left behind in 2019. I think we need to call him back. We must be able to move forward in good intelligence with the majority/opposition or opposition/majority, this time with the government and Minister Vandenbroucke. I thank you for that, not so much for me, but in any case for the women who, unfortunately, tomorrow, may be able to benefit from it. I salute you on this point. In the background, is this ovarian cancer important? It is true that this is not the first cancer to occur following exposure to asbestos, but at the same time, ovarian cancer affects about 900 women diagnosed each year in Belgium. These are obviously not 900 women associated with asbestos exposure, but for a number of them, and often at least ten years before, there have been repeated contacts with asbestos. Some of you have insisted on the professional aspect but it is not only in a professional context. This can also be done indirectly. This was all the more important since, so far, only those who had been in contact with asbestos in a professional setting were generally kept in mind by forgetting or leaving out the contact with asbestos in an environmental way; that is, you recalled here, when they were doing laundry at home, the exposure via fibres on the clothes of the spouses who worked in a company where there was asbestos. We are far away, if I may say so, from having finished the fight, first of all because we are not yet at the peak of asbestos, at the peak of the damage of asbestos on health. There are still fighting and progress to be made in dealing with asbestos and the victims of asbestos, first of all as regards the type and modalities of compensation through the Fedris agency. In addition, Mrs Van Peel's fight - which was again discussed last week - cannot be sent to oblivion and must be absolutely and fundamentally put back on the job. I would also like to call for all good will in terms of asbestos removal plans, to strengthen information where asbestos is present and where there is a risk of exposure, with regard to systematic and more regular controls on the presence of asbestos fibres in water pipes and in drinking water, as it is quite possible that a link may be demonstrated at some point in time. There are now scientific questions about the risks of gastric cancer and colorectal cancer as a result of the ingestion of asbestos fibres in drinking water, but also as regards the protection of workers and handymen on Sundays who, without knowing it, during various works, are in fact exposed to asbestos fibres. I will end with strong thoughts - I hope I can do this on behalf of all of us - for all asbestos victims, not only those who may be affected by ovarian cancer, but also those who are affected by asbestosis, pleural diseases, mesothelioma or other cancers such as lung cancer and larynx cancer. The work we have done together is for all of these victims, and I hope we will be able to continue this work in the future in order to avoid as many other victims as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u142	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I also wanted to speak on this important issue, with its sometimes serious consequences as a result of the exposure of some of our fellow citizens to asbestos. Fortunately, a fund was set up some ten years ago to compensate victims of asbestos. Of course, it was not perfect, but it had at least the merit of finally being there. However, we had to respond today to the significant increase in the number of victims in recent years. Moreover, I remember that, during the previous parliamentary term, we had benefited from the hearing of the Belgian Association of Asbestos Victims or the Amiante Collective and Hazardous Products, which had stressed the dangers faced by future generations – given the risks already present in schools. These hearings convinced us, if still necessary, to extend the list of compensable diseases. Indeed, it was important to respond to the magnitude of the damage caused by asbestos, not only in people directly exposed to it, but also in their loved ones – especially those who wash their clothes, make textiles and often turn out to be women. This work in committee had led to an improvement in compensation, including the recognition of lung and larynx cancers, but not that of ovarian cancer. In short, for this reason, this task was unfinished, since the women struck by ovarian cancer had had to cross over a part of them – not to mention the consequences as such of this disease for them and their loved ones. In other words, they had not been taken into account. Therefore, I can only warmly welcome the work and legitimate fight pursued by Mrs Catherine Fonck, who have – at last! – resulted in the recognition of ovarian cancer as a disease compensable by the Asbestos Victims Compensation Fund. It is therefore with enthusiasm and gratitude that we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u143	Madam President, first of all, I thank you for giving me the floor despite my delay. I'm really sorry about that, especially for such a subject. I won't be long. I think my colleagues have already recalled the situation and the debates that have taken place in committee. These discussions were extremely rich and serene. Indeed, it is important, in those moments and on subjects such as these, to conduct calm and respectful debates for those victims who are fighting for recognitions such as the one we are about to vote today and who have sometimes been dragging on for many years. I will highlight two points. First, there is the respect of a given word from a government, the Vivaldi government, which said that it was possible to work on this recognition of ovarian cancer and that if the initiative was recognised by FEDRIS, it could be implemented. Secondly, there is a parliamentary initiative, that of Mrs Fonck, who has been able to create alliances around her sufficient to convince her colleagues. I am pleased that in this Parliament we can also vote for texts by colleagues who are not necessarily part of the traditional partners of the majority. This is proof that our democratic processes are still working in this Parliament – which is good news.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u144	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u145	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2434/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2434/4) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u146	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u147	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mrs Farih and Mrs Muylle, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u148	Minister, this bill comes just in time. Ten minutes ago, we received a beautiful news item: "The government's coronal abductors: 400,000 Belgians were tested with false material." To a question about swabs, the sticks that are inserted into the nose to check whether the patient has corona or not, you answered that those swabs are not divided under your jurisdiction and that you do not have the habit of looking in the past. In your opinion, these swabs were divided under the rule of your predecessor, Mrs. De Block. A risk analysis has been carried out for all this material. It has been examined whether the risk of a negative test result outweighed the potential shortage of test material if the products were removed from circulation. We will be voting on a European regulation on in vitro diagnostic medical devices. You will regularise the safety of tests, test materials and the like more. While a small number of the tests were previously regularized, you will now go wider. Of course we can understand that. However, there are questions about the urgency that you are asking for. It is a regulation of 2017 which is now being submitted to Parliament as a matter of urgency. However, today's biggest question is more relevant than ever. Who will carry out the control and how will it happen? Every time I make a comment in the Committee on Health, you give the same answer, namely the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products. The powers of the FAGG will be extended and you have full confidence in the organisation. However, if we look back at the corona times, we can only see that a lot of problems have arisen and that our patients may have had some luck. There were vaccines that were kept in a dubious way. Apparently, there were swabs that didn't work out. I'll come back to that later. You were aware that they were being distributed. There were serological tests for which the parquet had to intervene due to conflict of interest. If the N-VA Group comes up with a legislative proposal asking for an audit of the FAGG, the organisation for which you are responsible, before granting new powers, you do not think that is necessary. However, there are always major problems. I have a very specific question for you, Minister. Are you aware today of any additional problems regarding corona material coming to the FPS Public Health or the FAGG? I would very much like an answer to that. You continue to invest in the FAGG, you continue to pump money into it, but you refuse to check the operation and examine how quality control of certain tools has been carried out during the corona period. However, we are also talking about the future. We still have a number of comments in addition to that effect, which you absolutely must address, including within the Public Health Office, where you have still not appointed a chairman. In the meantime, there is already a third interim chairman there. We had comments on language legislation. You wiped it under the mat. You said that no package leaflets in English have been used for tests with which the patient came into direct contact. That is true, Minister, but I have replied to you, having received information from a number of clinical biologists, that they can accept the validation of the tests in English, but that there might be a problem with the instructions for the laboratory workers they are to use. A second remark, often raised in committee, concerns availability. To what extent will that Regulation affect the availability of the various tests? We have also discussed several times a remarkable letter sent from Sciensano, signed by the Pathological Anatomy Commission, the Clinical Biology Commission and the Belgian Human Heritage Centres. That letter states that you are going to interpret that regulation as much as possible. It is also pointed out that for the in-house medical devices and tests you are stricter than is actually necessary, as these labs are already controlled by Sciensano and BELAC. However, you still enter a registration with the FAGG, even though the FAGG is not able to remove swabs that cannot be used from the market and you have not taken any action in this respect. Thus the labs have to do extra work, so that the FAGG would have a clearer function in this whole sector. The proposal of the labs is therefore less stringent and to introduce the registration only for the D-tests. You say that you have set up a working group that will look at everything. However, that working group does not really reassure me either. In the meantime, I've had contacts with the sector. I am told that the directives issued today by the FAGG, which will have to be applied as such when the law is adopted and published, are very vague. However, the work of the in-house tests is really complicated, especially when it comes to niche tests, such as genetic tests on rare diseases. You know that the latter is one of my pet horses, because we absolutely need to ensure that our patients with rare diseases can get good diagnostics. If you do not have a clear directive here and apply the IVDR directive, compared to the lab's much less complex lab development tests, you will create difficulties, which will reduce the patient's concern and clarity. We will continue to give you that remark. That is also one of the reasons why we will abstain from voting on this bill. I also have concerns when I link to what's coming, the Clinical Trials Regulation, directly to the tests. You will probably interpret them as much as possible. Then the position of our country around clinical trials will be compromised. You know that our country has been an innovative valley for years. It is important for the N-VA group to keep it that way. I'll come back to my first question. Do you know of any other problems within the FOD or the FAGG. Secondly, why did you declare that the iClean swabs were only distributed under the control of your colleague Maggie De Block? I asked you three questions about the iClean swabs, in which I indicated that they did not pass the aberration test and that there were particles left in the nose, which was dangerous. You said those tests were quarantined. At the committee meeting of 14 September 2021, I told you very clearly that the iClean swabs were still on the market. It's in the report. I just checked. Then what is your reaction to your statement in the press that they were not distributed under your rule?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u149	I'll be brief. I believe that my group in committee has already said everything that needs to be said. However, I would like to clarify our amendments, which have been voted down in committee, in the hope of obtaining some support from you, ladies and gentlemen. Our six amendments aim to keep the package leaflet for in vitro diagnostic medical devices in the national languages. Although English is often the main language in the medical world, it has to be said that the professional jargon and the medical and technical terms are not always understood by specialists who have to deal with it. Also out of respect for the language of the country where the products are marketed and used, the package leaflet and the manual must be at least in the country language. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, it is not just about respect for the country and its language, but also about the safety of the patient, and above all about the patient, but also about the treating specialist. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we ask for your support for our amendments, out of respect for our language and for the safety of patients and specialists.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u150	Minister, this draft law is implementing a European regulation that was already published in 2017 and for which the deadline was 26 May. A relatively last minute draft law, therefore, whereas if it had been on the agenda before, there would have been more room for more thorough debate. Not only have there been concerns expressed by the sector, but it would have been interesting to have had a more in-depth debate on, for example, the FAGG inspection capacities and on the notified bodies that assess the tools, which are often private organisations. Before a medical device is placed on the market, the manufacturer must demonstrate that the product is safe. For this purpose, he must provide clinical data. It is the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products that controls it in our country. In order to commercialise a product, the manufacturer must apply the CE marking procedure. This marking must first be approved by a notified body or a notified body, i.e. an approval authority. These organisations are specifically private organisations, which are designated by the FAGG in our country. The manufacturers of medical devices can choose the private companies that approve their products. You said in committee that seven notified bodies have now been approved, including SGS Belgium. By the end of this year, this would like to submit an application file to allow medical devices to be checked. Now it focuses, among other things, on gas and chemical companies. Of course, the market for medical devices is an interesting market where there is a lot of money to be made and where the government spends a lot of money on refunds. The majority of the categories of medical devices shall be tested for conformity by those notified bodies and one category shall be checked by the manufacturer himself. Today, however, laboratories themselves make CE markings based on quality procedures. It is then Sciensano who controls the procedures. More and more laboratories have to go through independent companies for this control. It is then the AFMPS that is responsible for these companies, with Sciensano. This amounts, in a way, to an increased commercialization of the laboratory sector, which is already very much on the market. This also threatens some of the techniques that today are in house or home made, since laboratories that themselves produce reagents for certain tests are therefore considered to be industrialists who manufacture these reagents. The figures that Mrs Fonck mentioned at the committee were interesting. She explained that 47% of the tests used at Gasthuisberg University Hospital in Leuven are manufactured and used there, internally, and stamped by themselves, by CE marking. At the same time, there is another problem: for the moment there are a small number of notified bodies. There are only seven actors in our country. This could lead to unavailability problems. It is also, in our view, the problem of the free market, which sees the device sector on the one hand as a very lucrative market, but which is not capable of ensuring its accessibility. The Minister assured us that the AFMPS is working to maintain the balance between the availability of its devices and the safety and effectiveness of medical devices. But how to guarantee both when the system is based on private firms who decide themselves in their own interest to continue this business or not? Secondly, we note that there is a further expansion of the tasks of the AFMPS. You have stated, Minister, that the Agency's workforce would be strengthened by two inspectors, one of whom is in training; the other position has yet to be filled. So I think it's a little tight. We would have liked to have a more precise answer as to whether this will suffice in relation to the workload and the resolution of possible unavailability problems. As Mr Thierry Warmoes pointed out in committee, we are opposed to the system of financial transactions provided for in Rule 92. When a company plays with patient health for its benefit, we refuse to let it escape justice by paying for a financial transaction. In conclusion, we can support this bill because it provides a series of guarantees for patient safety and quality of health care. But we are asking ourselves questions about the notified bodies and the inspection capacity within the AFMPS.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u151	Madam President, Minister, anything that can enhance patient safety and the effectiveness of health care in relation to these medical devices is important. But the availability of medical devices is equally crucial. If we had to apply this bill - based on European directives - in the midst of a covid-19 crisis, I do not know what would have happened, but what is certain is that the delay would have been monstrous and that there would have been extremely serious repercussions on patients. The stakes of this bill are in terms of adaptation for each of the actors - companies, hospitals, end users and principals. For these actors as well as for patients, there is still a significant number of concerns about how the guidelines and this bill will apply. Companies are concerned about administrative burdens or innovation. Hospitals are concerned about in house devices or more generally. Even more important to me are the concerns to ensure the uninterrupted supply of these medical devices. There are far too few notified bodies to monitor. These are seven notified bodies for the European area. Minister, as a result of the new regulations, there has been a net decrease in the number of notified bodies, which means a delay in CE marking, a delay in placing on the market and the risk of interruption in the supply of medical devices. I have reminded the committee of the figures relating to the devices involved in the intervention of a notified body. This figure now exceeds 24,000, representing 78% of the market. It is therefore clear that with seven notified bodies for the whole of the European Union, this cannot be done in one day! Fortunately, a series of companies are trying to take control of things to anticipate, but, let's not be naive, this remains a major concern. Minister, we cannot afford to have supply interruptions, especially for critical and vital devices for patients. As you will understand, we can support what enhances patient safety and efficiency and we find availability crucial but we will abstain from this text. This abstention must be understood as a call for vigilance and a call to move the lines so that this bill is applicable and does not put in difficulty either the actors – companies and hospitals – or the continuity of patient care.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u152	Madam President, I would suggest that I do not go over the whole of the draft law and all the discussions again, but there have been some issues raised in today's speeches which may require a very short global answer. I would like to comment in detail on Mrs Depoorter's speech following a publication in Het Laatste Nieuws. It is useful for Parliament to respond in detail, although it is hot on the needle. First of all, I refer to the language used in these in vitro diagnostic devices, as mentioned by Mrs Sneppe and Mrs Depoter and mentioned in the amendments which have been retabled. I'm also very sensitive to what you're saying. Mrs Depoorter has also explained this in the Committee on Health. It is important to make it possible for the patient to understand in his own language what he is talking about and also to have access to the necessary information. In the case of documentation intended purely for a professional, whether or not made up by a company abroad, we have to consider the availability of the devices on the one hand and their non-availability on our market on the other, because the producers will not document them in Dutch, French and English on the other. Our northern neighbors are much laxer in that respect than we are. That's wrong. In discussions with Dutch people I often say that they should be more concerned with the Dutch language.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u153	In a patient's immediate application, the patient must be allowed to read in Dutch or French what he wishes to read in terms of documentation about the device. When it comes to explanations given by a producer to, for example, the FAGG or when it comes to explanations to a professional, I think it is fair to consider whether one does not want to have the product because it has to be documented in three languages or whether one wants to have it. That is the balance that we are making. Several amendments deal with this. I believe, quite frankly, that we are making the right balance. Very important is a point on which Mrs Merckx has just referred in the context of a somewhat broader speech. Mrs Fonck has also talked about this in detail. This concerns the number of so-called notified bodies. Mrs. Fonck, what you say is real. Your concern is shared by the FAGG and myself. I would like to mention what I explained in committee. The only Belgian notified body, SGS Belgium, indicated its intention to submit a dossier by the end of 2022 for a designation under the Regulation on in vitro diagnostic medical devices 2017/746. Once we have received the dossier through the FAGG, it will be dealt with as a priority. However, I am not very optimistic in terms of timing. After all, the process is normally a year and a half. SGS Belgium was not designated under the old legislation as a notified body for specific in vitro diagnostic devices. The materials are new for SGS Belgium. Until the Brexit, SGS UK had been notified under the old Medical Devices Directive. All customers have been transferred to another notified body. Currently, SGS Belgium focuses on all medical device activities, not in vitro diagnostics, and on a transition to the application of Regulation 2017/755 It is, of course, a European debate. I have also provided the European data. At European level, there were seven notifications under the IVD Directive in mid-March 2022. One application is now completed; two others would be in the final phase and four others are still at the audit stage of corrective and preventive actions review. However, I share the concern. Let there be no doubt about that. This needs to be addressed at European level. In the European working group capacity of notified bodies and availability of devices, involving the competent authorities of the Member States, a state of play will be carried out using a survey of notified bodies and manufacturers. We also discuss possible solutions with the two categories of stakeholders. I explained that in committee, and I will not go into this further. I have been informed of the delays in the certification of medical devices falling within the scope of the Regulation 2017/745 on medical devices and the Law of 22 December 2020. This is also being examined by the European level. We'll follow up on that. We do believe that this is very essential. Mrs. Depoorter, you referred to an article that just appeared in Latest News. The title of that article is alarming. It says "400,000 Belgians were tested with false material." It is also said that I shift things to Mrs. De Block, my predecessor. I am going to tell you in detail what I have said to the Latest News and I will leave it to everyone to decide whether this article and this title should actually be taken seriously. On Tuesday, the journalist involved in Het Laatste Nieuws sends us a list of very detailed questions and he wants an answer the next day at 1 p.m. I told you this wouldn't work. He had received very detailed information from certain people. I'd have that examined and asked for an extra day. I also said that this was not easy for me, as some of these things went back to the previous legislature. That was Mr De Backer and his task force. Mr De Backer has done a wonderful job with the previous government, for which we can thank him. I will read out the questions and the answers we have given. I will not say any more and anyone can judge whether the title of the article makes any sense. The journalist's first question was as follows: "On 7 September 2021, a donation of vaccines was made to Vietnam. It was astraZeneca vaccines. Some of them, however, appeared to have been mispreserved by the European Commission a few weeks earlier. They were frozen for several hours, although they need to be kept at a temperature between two and eight degrees. Basically, those vaccines had to be destroyed. This happened with 70 doses of a similar fate, but the 1,700 others were sent to Vietnam. Why did Belgium add these vaccines to the donation? Does the Minister consider it justified to donate non-compliant vaccines?" My answer was: "In the event of poor storage, a risk analysis is carried out, including on the basis of the manufacturer's stability dates, in order to ensure the quality of the medicinal product. If it is shown that the quality can be guaranteed on the basis of the risk analysis, the medicinal products can be distributed. That's what happened here. The FAGG has done its job. Furthermore, the FAGG was not informed of any quality or preservation problem with AstraZeneca vaccines for Vietnam." The second question of the newspaper was as follows: "In early August 2020, a load of test material with manufacturing defects was sent from the strategic stock to labs. It involved 150,000 nose wipers from the Any-Shape brand. The production error was known to the FOD. However, the products were not placed in quarantine and were still put into circulation under the authority of the FAGG. Does the Minister consider it justified to release non-compliant test material?" I replied: "There was no production error in the swabs sent in August 2020. However, there was a lack of clarity as to the effectiveness of the sterilization method used. A risk analysis was again carried out taking into account, inter alia, the already carried out validation of the swabs and the possible consequences of the use of any non-sterile swabs." Our experts said that when it comes to whether you get a PCR result or not, the risk of non-sterile swabs is negligible. You want results to know if people are infected with covid. There was often a shortage of swabs on the European market during that period. The risk of using these Any-Shape swabs was considered negligible compared to the risk of a lack of swabs in Belgium and the disastrous effects such a shortage would have on public health. So they've been used. That's different from what that article says. Then I come to the third question. On 27 May 2020, 1,000 test kits of the brand Jokon were sent to a hospital in East Flanders, which would have proved to be non-compliant/false. However, they were not returned to the strategic stock and placed in quarantine. The question was whether I consider it justified to release non-compliant test material. Our answer, after examination, is the following: "This kit contained tubes and swabs for sampling samples. The non-conformity found concerned the absence of a certificate from a notified body' - that is what we referred to earlier as 'the sterilization quality system'. This does not necessarily mean that the swabs were not sterilised." A certificate on the sterilization quality system was missing. So there was a lack of documentation. They didn't know for sure if those swabs were sterilized or not. The use of any non-sterile swabs was estimated to be a negligible risk for the generation of no PCR or an incorrect PCR result. That's why the kits weren't taken back. As other answers also show, there were stock problems with swabs during that period. The risks associated with the use of the swabs compared with the risks to public health in the event of a lack of swabs were examined. Minister De Block and Minister De Backer, or the authorities for which they were responsible, acted carefully and correctly here. One has to weigh it up. Then I come to the fourth question. At the beginning of August 2020, 80,000 nose wipers were sent from the strategic stock of the iClean brand to two labs that turned out to be non-compliant/false. They weren't re-entered the strategic stock, they were quarantined. At your question whether I think it is justified to release non-compliant test material, I can tell you that it is a bit of the same story. It was a period in which there was often a shortage of swabs whose full conformity on the European market was certain. A risk analysis was carried out for the not fully compliant swabs in stock, taking into account four factors. Those were, firstly, the validation already carried out and the experience gained in using those swabs, secondly, any complaints received, thirdly, the type of non-compliance problem............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The potential impact of a lack of swabs on testing policies and public health has been examined. When the risk was considered small in relation to the benefits, it was decided to distribute a certain amount of swabs anyway. I come to the fifth question: "In the months from May 2020 to September 2020, at least 170,000 Belscan nose wipers were distributed to labs and hospitals that turned out to be non-compliant/false. These were not recalled until October and placed in quarantine. Does the Minister consider it justified to release non-compliant test material?" Our answer was: "It was established that the packaging of Belscan's swabs does not contain all the information that should normally be present. Among other things, the address of the manufacturer and of the European authorised representative was missing. However, there was a significant shortage of compliant swabs across the European continent and the risk of using Belscanswabs was considered negligible compared to the risk of not carrying out SARS-CoV-2 tests. No complaints were received about the use of these swabs." So that's what makes a title that 400,000 fake swabs are divided. That doesn't make any sense. I come to the journalist's sixth question: "On 26 January 2021, the Minister made a statement in committee on alleged problems with the nose wipers of the iClean brand. This problem had come to light following a complaint from a company at the FAGG. The Minister then stated that on 23 July 2020, seven months before the complaint, it was already found that a number of iClean wipers tickets did not have a CE certificate regarding sterility. Those tickets were immediately quarantined. The Minister stated that the established non-conformity was sufficient to prohibit the circulation of the swabs and that any fate found was quarantined. He ended up with: "The same applies when new lottery tickets are located." "The Minister shall indicate that non-conformity of test material is sufficient to prohibit its circulation. How does he reconcile this statement with the findings in the previous questions?" Well, I repeat, there was a shortage of compliant swabs throughout Europe. In the case of not fully compliant swabs, an address that is missing, a certificate that is not present, a risk analysis was carried out, taking into account the validation of those swabs already carried out, the user experience, any complaints received, etc. It also examined precisely the problem of non-conformity and the measures to be taken to avoid the risk. So it's a trade-off. I'm going to the seventh question. Several Belgian hospitals confirm that they have sent medicines back to the strategic stock several times over the last two years, sometimes because they were too close to the expiry date, sometimes because they did not have enough space to store them. They often returned the products without an overview of the storage temperatures. In the summer of 2021, FAGG decided that all returned medicinal products should be quarantined. At the beginning of 2022, however, the FOD removed thousands of boxes from quarantine and sent them back to Belgian hospitals, although there is no evidence that these products have been kept correctly. "Why do the services of the minister still deliver drugs in quarantine to hospitals, contrary to the FAGG's position?" The answer is: if necessary, the FPS Public Health shall consult with the competent authority of the FAGG to consider the redistribution of previously quarantined medicinal products. The conclusion is that risk analysis will then have to be carried out to ensure the quality of the medicines but also the continuity of care. In the context of an epidemiological peak, the FPS, taking into account the stability data of the medicinal products concerned and the urgency of supplying hospitals with a shortage of these medicinal products, has, in consultation and in all transparency with hospital pharmacists, lifted the quarantine of certain medicinal products. That was about vital drugs for patients in coma, after consultation with the hospital pharmacist. So, reread that article in Latest News and think about how serious we should take that. The last question you asked: is the Minister aware of other problems with the supply of medicines, test materials or vaccines, in Belgium or abroad, or of other problems with the management of the strategic stock in general? I have given a brief answer to this, which I will repeat here: my services are doing their job.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u154	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I'll mention a few things. Are you aware of other problems with the strategic stock, with test material or with vaccines? You say, "My services do their job." So you're confirming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u155	If there's a problem, they need to be dealt with. I have extensive consultations with the FAGG and other stakeholders, in particular the FOD, on improving the management of the strategic stock. I made a very detailed proposal yesterday to the Federal Hospital Services Council to bring about a completely different management of protective equipment. We're doing our job. Madam President, I would like to continue reading it here, but we will be working for two hours. I see people nodding no. I have given a brief answer: my services are doing their job. Mrs. Depoorter, if my officials make mistakes, I'm gonna tap them, but if they do their job, I'm gonna say it too. Those people have been working their asses off under the direction of Mrs. De Block and Secretary of State De Backer or under my direction. There is an atmosphere of suspicion about those people who are working themselves to death: that they are sending around false tests and that medicines are not allowed to be used at all. May I point out that this is about helping patients in coma, with the approval of the hospital pharmacist? You're also a pharmacist. I'm sorry, but all I'm saying is that my services do their job. I thank my officials for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u156	It is only natural that you should thank your officials and it is also normal that they should do their job, but you are the political responsible. You know what I suspect, and we'll come back to it. There are other problems today. You know, you just confirmed it, and it will certainly cross our way. With your explanation of the swabs, take a walk with the truth, Minister. You say, over and over again, that there was a shortage. I and you know that suppliers from our regions have offered you to deliver correct swabs that did comply with the abrasion test, which, in other words, did not leave any particles, to make them sturdy pedes. There was a shortage on the general market, but there was no shortage. I'm just making the bridge to the mouth masks. There were millions of mouth masks without a CE certificate in quarantine and at that time your officials also did not give a go to the nurses and caregivers who were at the patient's bed wearing those mouth masks. However, you did carry out a risk analysis such as you would call it "to insert a stick that is not sterile and/or leaves fibres in the nose'. You know the medical term for that triangle: le triangle de la mort. If a non-sterile device is inserted with some kind of infection on it, then you are taking a risk, Minister. Given the complete list of how you have refuted everything, you are quite confident in your statement. I really do ask myself the question in the whole story... The journalist did not notice that I asked that question on 14 September 2021 and you do not, of course, refer to it, but I will read it out. It concerns the iClean Swabs, on which several questions were asked in January. Then you said there's been an investigation into the sterility for some time. However, I asked you about the abrasion test. I asked you what your reaction was to the fact that the iClean Swabs, which I had asked for in the past, would no longer be sold those particulates in the nose and, in the event of frequent use, could endanger the health of the patient. You indicated that at the committee meeting of January 2021. I asked what steps you had taken. And then I continued: the iClean Swabs are still being sold and used at the moment; this can have an impact on public health. I asked you if you had consulted the FAGG again. You replied that the FAGG, in collaboration with Sciensano, is carrying out an analysis of the components that may be released from the use of these swabs. First, an extract study was carried out on the different samples. This study made it possible to identify as many chemical components as possible that could be released from contact with the swabs. The samples were extracted with two different solvents - physiological water and a solution containing 96 % ethanol for 24 hours at 37 degrees Celsius - and then analysed with two complementary chromographic techniques. At present, the identified substances are analysed for toxicity. In a subsequent phase, cytotoxic studies and a determination of selected components after extraction may be performed under more relevant physiological conditions. This allows us to estimate the actual exposure to potentially worrying components. Your risk analysis, Minister, was you performing at the time the swabs were sold and used. So you did take a risk to public health. But that's what you didn't say in your answer. That is what you did not mention in your quote in the article, and certainly not in the answers you gave to the journalist. That, Minister, is bringing the truth in a very colourful way. This is in the committee's report. I invite you to rectify that you have effectively taken a risk there. Mr. Secretary, think about it for a while. A lot of mistakes have happened. You can't blame them all on your predecessor. You must assume your responsibility, even though you thank your officials.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u157	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u158	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2656/04) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2656/4) The bill has 122 articles. The draft law has 122 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u159	Art. 9
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u160	• 20 • Dominic Sneppe cs (2656/08)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u161	• 21.. Dominican Republic Sneppe cs (2656/08)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u162	• 23 • Dominic Sneppe cs (2656/08)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u163	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on amendments and reserved clauses as well as on the bill as a whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments retained, the articles retained and on the whole of the draft law will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u164	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Katja Gabriels, Egbert Lachaert, Goedele Liekens.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u165	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr D'Haese, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u166	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (353/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (353/4) The title has been amended by the Commission to "proposal for a law amending article 805, paragraph 2, of the Judicial Code as regards default". The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law amending Article 805, second paragraph, of the Court's Code as regards default." The bill has two articles. The bill has 2 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u167	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u168	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Kris Verduyckt.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u169	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2202/5) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2202/5) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur, Mr Senesael, referred to the written report. Mr Wollants has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u170	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what is on the table here has been suggested that it has been put on the table by Mr Verduyckt. We note that this process does not always go smoothly and that problems arise. We have recently had a number of discussions on this with, for example, the Minister of Justice, including loading posts in apartment buildings. The wider framework of energy renovation was also included. If one has to make a decision with many people, one sometimes finds that this may not always be as smooth as when one could do it in one's own home, where one does not have to consult with co-owners. In the hearing on the subject, it became clear that there is room for improvement. The resolution has been updated on a number of points based on that hearing and on examples and tips from practice. It is a good thing that this issue is on the agenda. I must admit that we had some concerns about this resolution, because many things come in the area of the regions, which are responsible for rational use of energy, energy efficiency and so on. On the other hand, there are also measures which today fall under federal competence in the area of co-ownership. We had a very good discussion in committee on this. Several committee members have expressed those sensitivities. The majority understands that we must pay attention to this. I am glad that we were able to work on the text together. By means of a limited amendment, we have ensured that we have more guarantees that the division of powers is respected, so that we can move in the right direction. The resolution contains a number of important ideas, but perhaps specific to the problem, some research needs to be carried out to see what is the best way to deal with them, as we do not have all the answers today. However, if we do not start the debate, we will never get those answers. In that sense, I believe that this is a good first step. The assessment of practice will still have to be followed. There will still be a lot of conversations to be had. I am glad that we can support this text, so that we can hopefully see results soon. I hope that we can find the way forward within that segment too. With this reference, I would like to thank the main producer for his cooperation. Our group will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u171	Madam President, I agree with Mr Wollants that the present resolution pursues an important objective. The challenges of energy efficiency in Belgium are therefore enormous. I should therefore like to begin by thanking Mr Verduyckt, the author of this resolution, for putting this on the agenda of our committee. Let it be clear, the climate transition calls for action. First of all, we must invest in renewable energy sources, because they are cheaper, greener and safer. In addition, in the current energy crisis, the phrase "the cheapest energy is the energy that one does not consume" is more important than ever. If that's what we're trying to achieve, we need to renovate. A renovation wave is therefore very important, with several types of buildings to be renovated. This resolution is limited to one segment of that market, in particular the apartment buildings. In apartment buildings, energy interventions and investments are not only necessary, they will also contribute to a reduction in the energy bill. That's how we hit two birds with one stone. The hearings that we held in committee on the subject showed that it is going very slowly with regard to the renovation of apartment buildings. It is true, of course, that some of the energy efficiency powers lie at regional level. For example, look at Brussels, where different systems of relief and certain funding options are used. However, I believe that this resolution has the merit of looking for problems that we can deal with in practice as a federal legislator. To this end, the discussion we have had in committee has contributed. We have ensured that balance. It is important to tackle federally what can be tackled federally. The question we asked ourselves when we discussed the resolution was what thresholds we can remove to make apartment buildings more energy efficient, but also how we can ensure that co-owners are better involved in the process. A number of points in the resolution are important in this respect. Firstly, we are talking about greater transparency by drawing up a multiannual plan, which will give a co-owner more insight into what is to be done in the coming years. In the resolution we are also trying to find out how procedures can be speeded up and how co-owners can be better involved in decisions. We also pay attention to the reserve capital that is being set aside for necessary interventions, which the hearings have shown to be regularly inadequate today. In addition to an increase in that amount, it is therefore important that the co-owner gets an insight into what awaits him or her in the coming years. There are some good points in the resolution. I would also like to refer to the energy agreement concluded by the current federal government on 18 March 2022. With that agreement, the government drew up a very clear vision. This vision shows that the government wants to focus on structural energy efficiency measures. The present resolution contributes to this. It is now up to the government to carry out the investigations that we are asking for in the resolution before us. Our group will look into how we can transpose the recommendations into legislation. We therefore support the resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u172	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I thank Mr Verduyckt for having submitted this text to our sagacity. First of all, we must stress that the proposal before us today comes in a particular context. As we know, the energy transition requires that we make our buildings more sustainable by enhancing their energy efficiency. The challenges are great, given that almost 85% of buildings in the European Union were built before 2001 and that a large majority of them are still expected to be occupied by 2050 – much more so when it is known that 40% of European energy consumption and 36% of the related emissions are due to building heating. While buildings and their energy efficiency fall largely within regional jurisdiction, there are, at the federal level, levers to promote and support housing renewal. We therefore welcomed the proposal by our colleagues in Vooruit to direct the work of the Climate Committee on this subject and, in particular, on the functioning of the co-owners' associations (ACP). The first was to consider ways to improve ACP decision-making processes, i.e. the shift from a two-thirds majority to three-quarters in 2019, before a simple majority move that would benefit the commitment of large investments without creating inequalities between co-owners. All of this is now the subject of a request for review – which we can only welcome. Secondly, I would like to mention the request for consultation with the federated entities on the introduction of mechanisms to accompany and support the ACPs in their projects, including the organisation of energy audits. We know, ladies and gentlemen, that undertaking important work when we are co-owners is sometimes a difficult task, the complexity of which can discourage us if we are not provided with appropriate assistance or guidance. For our group, this request to simplify the lives of our fellow citizens is in the right direction. The same applies to points 5 and 8, which tend to counter the legal obstacles which oblige the ACPs and to transmit information dossiers and training modules to their members. Thirdly, I would like to welcome the fact that a report is presented to the Federal Parliament on the implementation of the measures contained in this motion for a resolution. This will undoubtedly allow us to ensure the continuity of the work undertaken and to examine the initiatives envisaged by the government on this basis. Finally, it is up to me to thank all those who have enriched our reflections with their written opinions or oral presentations, as well as the colleagues with whom we drafted the amendments to the original text.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u173	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, no one with any common sense will deny that simplifying and stimulating energetic interventions in apartment buildings in forced co-ownership is one of the greatest challenges in achieving more energy efficiency for buildings. Indeed, Mr Verduyckt, the number of apartment buildings in excellent energetic condition is rather limited today, and I still express myself euphemistically. And yes, there is a need for more transparency about the energy state of the building and the necessary interventions to improve living quality and energy performance. And yes, making investment decisions in a context of co-ownership is never easy. This is even the case at micro level, with an example that has nothing to do with energy renovation: houses that have been built together and have a common fronton, which is covered with panels that need to be replaced, where one wants to and the other doesn't. Co-ownership: it's never easy. It is also undeniable that when purchasing an apartment the buyers are not always aware of all the data relating to the energy state of the building, let alone the answer to the question of which investments still have to be made. So we share some of your analyses. Your initiative, to which we have also devoted a very interesting hearing, was and is certainly relevant. But you will understand that for the Flemish interest, the road to greater energy efficiency of buildings must also be a social road. Let's face reality. Mr Wollants talked about the test of reality. There are still many people with little or limited financial capacity living in apartments with associations of co-owners or VMEs. You acknowledge that lack of funding capacity and insufficient reserves, including in recital I. The fact that there are already specific financial products for VMEs and that third party developers can pre-finance them is correct, but ultimately it continues to pay extra for these people. I have my doubts as to whether these people can be persuaded with a fingernip by announcing that they can earn back their investment in the long term through energy renovation. For the Flemish Interest, the possible intervention in the decision-making procedure in VMEs remains a tricky and dangerous point. Mr Verduyckt and this majority, supplemented by almost the entire opposition, apparently want to examine whether an energetic renovation decision can be adopted by simple majority plus one in apartment buildings. The intervention in the decision-making process of the VMEs is just too far away for the Flemish Interest. We're just asking for research. According to the proposal, the financial impact of such a decision should certainly be assessed. However, I know the tonality and the birds by their way of whistling. One gives a finger and one takes a hand. I am therefore curious to see how we will avoid going into a system where a narrow majority would impose financial burdens on a minority who does not have the necessary resources to do so. That's the key question for us. We are a little more cautious in that regard, Mr Verduyckt. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget that this is only a matter of the right to vote, and I do not mean that it is a pejorative resolution, Mr Verduyckt. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u174	Mr Ravyts, your speaking time is up, five minutes is five minutes, the law is the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u175	Colleagues, improving the energy efficiency of buildings has a key role to play in achieving the ambitious goal of carbon neutrality by 2050. In Belgium, according to the Conseil central de l'Economie, the number of apartment buildings is more than 200,000, representing almost 1.5 million dwellings, or almost 25% of the Belgian housing stock. Of these apartment buildings in Belgium, 64.7% were built before 1981, before the implementation of energy standards. These elements underline the scale of the construction projects ahead of us in the coming years, which will have to contribute to improving the energy efficiency of the buildings. As mentioned in the committee during the hearings, energy efficiency works, whether it is insulation of roofs and facades, investments in photovoltaic panels or in cogeneration, can quickly become expensive for co-owners, which is why the financial impact must be taken into account for all co-owners. Indeed, a mechanism to impose financial burdens on a minority must be avoided, which would not have the means to do so. The possibility of a multi-year plan provides an overview of the energy efficiency work to be carried out. The third-party investor principle mentioned at the hearings seems very interesting since it costs the co-owners nothing and can even bring back money. The scope of the motion for a resolution is broad. Jurisdiction in this area is divided between the Federal and the Regions. We therefore welcome the fact that this dimension is taken into account with a request for cooperation with the federated entities and the sector in order to examine the legal obstacles that hinder the associations of co-owners in their desire to improve the energy efficiency of their buildings. We would like to thank the Vooruit Group, in particular Mr Verduyckt, for the work done to fine-tune this motion for a resolution with reworked requests, which correspond to the energy agreement concluded by the federal government on 18 March 2022, in particular with regard to the examination of the modalities for the decision on energy renewal for apartment buildings. In conclusion, of course, our group will support the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u176	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that we face very great challenges in terms of climate. Doing nothing hasn't been an option for a long time. We must take action on various aspects: mobility, industry, agriculture and housing. Our homes must all become energy efficient. Owners should therefore be encouraged to make homes energy efficient. If one only owns a property, one can decide to invest oneself, but if one lives in an apartment, it is much more difficult. Often the will is with a few, but if not everyone wants to invest in it, it is very difficult to reach an agreement and then all kinds of procedures often prevent something from being done effectively. Therefore, the resolution proposal is an important means of stimulating energy-efficient interventions in apartment buildings. After all, we find that many apartment buildings are still not equipped with solar panels and LED lighting, because too few energy-efficient renovations have taken place. We therefore certainly agree, as the proposal calls for, to give a number of instructions to the government to consider whether the decision-making process should be adapted. We do, of course, have concerns. If the decision-making process is adjusted, the financial impact on co-owners must certainly be taken into account. Not every co-owner has sufficient resources. We really have to take everyone into account. After all, the climate transition must not leave anyone behind or plunge into a financial adventure. Finally, the regions also play a very important role in making our homes energy efficient. There is no doubt that consultation with the various regions is necessary. It is necessary to discuss at which level further research into systems of relief or guidance, such as an energy audit on energy losses, can be rolled out. It is also necessary to examine, together with the regions and the sector, the barriers which make energy interventions even more difficult today. In any case, we hope that this consultation will be held soon, that this will be done in a constructive way and that solutions will be found. We thank Mr Verduyckt and the colleagues for the proposal before us and the positive attitude. Our group will certainly support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u177	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution aims to facilitate the isolation of apartment buildings and other energetic improvements to them. This concerns a large number of compatriots: a quarter of the Belgians. Our country has 1.4 million apartments and studios. There is no doubt that there is a great need for massive renovations of buildings and therefore also apartment buildings. The resolution also contains figures. Unfortunately, these figures are always available only by region in our country. In order to achieve the climate targets by 2050, in Flanders only 1.6% of the houses and 4% of the apartments are in order. In Wallonia, there are 0.2% of the houses and 2.3% of the apartments, and in Brussels 1.7% of the houses and 8.9% of the apartment buildings. So there's still a lot of work to be done. We support the objectives. The question is how we intend to achieve it. We urgently need a public approach, as mentioned in our programme. We want a public bank. By the way, her name is Belfius. With the third-payer system, it should enable public investment to help people isolate their homes. However, this resolution only concerns the decision-making procedure in an association of co-owners. The resolution adapts that procedure so that a simple majority and not a two-thirds majority are sufficient for collective decisions on energy measures such as facade insulation, the replacement of a boiler or the installation of solar panels. For us, that's not a good way to work. It's kind of the horse for the cart. As stated in the resolution itself, in recital i: "In view of the fact that energy interventions are often expensive and that the accumulated reserve is insufficient and the funding capacity of Members is not always sufficient, many owners do not have the money to isolate their apartment." If the co-owners decide on the renovation, some of the residents do not have the resources for this. They are financially at the expense of that. The resolution has been amended on this point in order to examine the financial impact. I'll come back to that later. Even today, that leads to problems. I give the testimony of Ben in Antwerp who has been able to buy his own apartment. In the council of co-owners, it was suddenly decided that the roof had to be renovated. That costs 50,000 euros and 13,000 euros per owner. So all of a sudden Ben had to cough up 13,000 euros. Ben has seriously saved up to put some money aside, but he's had to use it to pay for the renovation. In theory, he could borrow from the Ecohuis, but it takes a long time for that to be okay. In reality, he has to pay for this now, because that is what has been decided in the association of co-owners. For which apartments would it be necessary to modify that voting procedure? Now it takes a two-thirds majority to decide. The resolution has now examined the matter. The intention is to go up to 50 %. This means that this change is necessary, with 34 % to 49 % of the general association's apartment owners disagree. Why do people disagree with that? That is, of course, not because they disagree with the climate objectives. That's because they don't have the money. That's the problem. That is why the initial request in the resolution has been watered down to consider how the decision-making procedure can be adapted, but that does not change the substance of the matter, of course, that the financial problem needs to be solved first and that the government must first take responsibility for helping people to isolate their apartments and, moreover, the houses. That is why we are abstaining from this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u178	Climate policy is versatile and has many things to do with: how our companies work, how our government works. It has to do with our individual behavior. There are three yards that we need to tackle collectively, and we all know them: mobility, energy generation, which we have often discussed with each other, as well as housing and buildings. Just at that yard we want to zoom in with this text. Mr Warmoes has just given the figures: 1.4 million apartments in our country in 200,000 buildings. That number is growing every day, because of the urbanisation of our country and because of the changing composition of our families, which is getting smaller and smaller. 4 % of all Flemish apartments today have the A-label, in Brussels 8 % and in Wallonia 3 %. So the challenge is enormous. For many reasons people choose to live in an apartment. This may have to do with the location, the composition of the family, the organisation. Today, quite rightly, a lot is being looked at at the energetic state of a building. As Mrs Buyst says, the cheapest energy is the one you don't consume. For example, the energetic state of an apartment building has become particularly important today. This resolution contains a number of general calls for action, but also a lot of concrete proposals. They do not mean to make things more difficult for people, because I sometimes get that impression when I hear some colleagues, but they make it easier to remove some thresholds to invest in façade insulation, electric charging stations, installation of sustainable lighting and so on. Colleagues, we live in a new world today. Yesterday there was the call from the National Bank, which warned the banks to be careful when giving loans for or investing in poorly isolated houses. That's the world we live in today. That does give a double feeling. Because we all want the Belgians to be able to buy an apartment or a house. However, we must also prevent people from entering a place of residence that is not helping their financial situation at all. Therefore, in this resolution there is a very important proposal to work with an investment plan, a multiannual plan that provides a structural overview of the energy state of the building, but also of the investments that are possible. This increases transparency for potential buyers. That has a few advantages. Firstly, far too much time is being wasted today between identifying a problem and resolving it. The hearing stated that this would take an average of four years. It takes four years for an identified problem to be tackled effectively. So one loses a lot of time. Secondly, there is the issue of reserve capital, which almost all speakers say is far too low today. We would better link it to such a multi-annual investment plan. Thirdly, and that is of course the most important thing, it is extremely important for buyers of an apartment building to know what they stand for. Not only about the purchase price, but also about what investments are needed in the building. What kind of isolation is going to be placed there? That is why, Mr Ravyts, I am sorry that you do not want to vote in favour today. This will ensure that people do not end up in a situation where they do not have sufficient resources to do something and secure other owners.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u179	Madam President, I was right to hear that agreements are not an opportunity to conclude my speech. Mr Verduyckt, first of all, arrange what you promise, namely the VAT on gas for people in apartment buildings with collective heating installations. Also arrange the social rate for those people. This is now a priority. What did the PS say at the end of April through President Magnette? That there is an error in the construction and that this was going to be modified in a few days. For the VAT on gas to 6% it is still waiting for a solution. That is the crux of the matter. Your resolution is relevant, but there are more important things at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u180	The issues you are referring to are matters for which I myself am also asking, but these have nothing to do with the structural approach of these apartment buildings in the future. That yard is much bigger than just that problem. That is a technical problem that the government would indeed be able to solve, for example in September if the reduction in VAT was extended to 6%. The time is too short to go over the full resolution. There are indeed many other things that have been raised by most of my fellow Members, including the very difficult discussion about this decision-making process. We're gonna take a look at that. We are not putting forward the final decision, but we are asking you to take a good look at it. Some questions were asked during the hearing. I want to thank those people today. They have provided us with a very interesting hearing, which has served our resolution extra. So I want to thank the sector. I would also like to thank those Members who have taken the floor today and who have contributed to the final text. It is good to hear that we will also receive support from the N-VA. Mr Wollants, I do not agree with one thing. You said that it is not too easy to come to an agreement with multiple owners, while it always succeeds perfectly in its own home. That's not the experience I have, but otherwise we'll find each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u181	Madam President, I would like to congratulate the author of this resolution. Indeed, it is a good resolution. I therefore do not understand those who have a state of mind in the face of what seems to me to be a step forward in the field of renovation, on energy issues, on isolation issues and on all these issues that we all are concerned with, I think, and I hope so. Our group will vote in favour of this resolution. Having said that, it is true that we have a taste too little in relation to an important issue that has just been raised. This is the discrimination against this population you are targeting, Mr. Verduyckt. You just said that your construction site was an important structural site. Yeah, it's true, but there's an emergency. Your party and others often recall that purchasing power is an essential issue. This urgency is that there is discrimination against the inhabitants of condominiums whose heating system is a collective one. We were promised that this problem would be resolved quickly. You have just recalled that, in your opinion, this was a technical problem that needed to be resolved quickly, but it is still not. This is a crucial problem for these millions of Belgians. I would like to see the same kind of proactivity and interest on this issue, since there is a certain proactivity, an interest on the part of Vivaldi, to deal urgently with these VAT and fuel check issues, which concern millions of Belgians, who have been waiting for many weeks for these issues to be resolved quickly and positively. I count on Vivaldi to show the same interest in these urgent issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u182	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u183	The next item is the ballot for the renewal of one third of the effective and alternate membership of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. The next item is the vote on the renewal of one third of the mandates of effective and deputy member of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. Nominations were announced in plenary on 10 March 2022. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 10 March 2022. By e-mail dated April 10 and 25, 2022, Ms. Stephanie Mees and Mr. Tom Ruysschaert indicated that they no longer wanted to present the German language test. By e-mail dated 10 and 25 April 2022 respectively, Ms Stéphanie Mees and Mr Tom Ruysschaert stated that they no longer wanted to take the German language test. By e-mail dated April 12, 2022, the Selor advised that Mr. Joris Verschueren had not presented himself for the same test. By e-mail dated 12 April 2022, Selor indicated that Mr Joris Verschueren did not report for the same language test. Proof of knowledge of German is already brought by a current member of the Board of Directors. Proof of the knowledge of German is already provided by a current member of the Board of Directors. The Chamber must therefore not appoint a member with the knowledge of German. The Chamber does not therefore have to designate a member with the knowledge of German. Given the kind of members whose term of office becomes vacant, the House must therefore appoint at least one female member. In view of the gender of the members whose term of office becomes vacant, the Chamber should appoint at least one member of the female sex. The terms of office of the three current representatives of the 'judicial world' become vacant and the 'academic world' is currently represented by four members. The mandates of the three current representatives of the 'judicial world' are vacant, and the 'academic world' is now represented by four members. At least one member of the 'judicial world' must therefore be appointed. At least one member of the 'judicial world' should therefore be appointed. Isabelle Fontignie withdrew her application by e-mail of May 5, 2022. By e-mail dated 5 May 2022, Ms Isabelle Fontignie withdrew her candidacy. By e-mail dated May 10, 2022, Mr.Hugues Ghenne withdrew his application. By e-mail of 10 May 2022, Mr Hugues Ghenne withdrew his candidacy. Therefore, only three francophone candidates remain for the replacement of two effective Francophone members and two alternate Francophone members. Consequently, three French-speaking applications remain for the replacement of two French-speaking effective members and two French-speaking alternate members. The Justice Committee heard the candidates on 10 May 2022. The rapporteur, Claire Hugon, reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 1 June 2022. The Committee on Justice heard the candidates on 10 May 2022. The rapporteur, Ms Claire Hugon, reported on these hearings at the Conference of Presidents of 1 June 2022. Since one of the French-speaking candidates was not considered fit by the committee, and in accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 June 2022, I propose that you proceed with the appointment of the Dutch- and French-speaking effective members. The appointment of Dutch-speaking alternate members will take place at the plenary next week. For French-speaking alternate members, a new call for candidates will be published in the Moniteur belge. Since one of the French-speaking candidates is not considered suitable by the committee, and in accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 June 2022, I propose that you proceed to the appointment of the effective Dutch-speaking and French-speaking members. The appointment of the Dutch-speaking alternate members will take place at next week's plenary session. A new call for candidates will be published in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandates of French-speaking alternate member. The document bearing the names of the candidates has been distributed to you. (2731/1) The document containing the names of the candidates was distributed. (2731/1) Ballot papers have already been distributed. The ballots have already been distributed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. As the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. For a valid vote, the same name may not be checked more than once on the ballot paper. In order to vote valid, the same name may not be ticked more than twice on the ballot. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. No observation? [[(Non]] [[)]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. Ms. Mélissa Hanus and Ms. Sophie Rohonyi were appointed to vote. Ladies Mélissa Hanus and Sophie Rohonyi are appointed to record the votes. I suggest that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in room 3, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. I propose that the ballots be counted in Room 3, in the presence of the voters. No observation? [[(Non]] [[)]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. Upon the call of his or her name, each member is requested to submit his or her unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum from my left to my right. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call. I invite the voters from the names to call.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u184	Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? Did everyone vote? I declare the ballot closed. The vote is closed. No observation? [[(Non]] [[)]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u185	The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the introduction of the bill on various tax provisions, No. 2722/1. The Government asked for an urgent procedure pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on various tax provisions, No. 2722/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u186	Madam President, several provisions of this draft have their effect on 1 January 2022, 1 July 2022 or on the 2022 tax year or before and must therefore be published as soon as possible in the Belgian Moniteur in order to ensure the necessary legal certainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u187	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u188	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (art. 75, n° 5, Rgt) If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. (art. 75, nr. 5, Rgt) No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u189	Madam President, we have received a request for a vote from Mr Bayet, Mr Geens and Mr Beke. Please interpret the voting behaviour of colleagues Francken and Loones and myself as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u190	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda of 30 May 2022. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda of 30 May 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 284/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms Leslie Leoni. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 284/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Leslie Leoni. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u191	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a lot of people are talking about water. More and more people can't pay their invoices anymore and save on the weekly groceries. Minister Dermagne's answer was not decisive at all. I have not received any concrete response to strengthen purchasing power. It's just a little mess in the margins. The negationism of inflation goes on and on. Last year there was talk of an inflation rate of 1.6%, while we are now dealing with inflation at the highest level in the last 40 years. We haven't seen the last one yet. Denying the situation is, of course, an excuse not to do anything. We are referring to September agreements and budgetary negotiations, but we need to intervene now, because it is no longer five to twelve, twelve hours long past. At Vivaldi there are as many opinions as parties. An expert group has been appointed, of which we have not yet been able to observe any results, but we have seen a PS plan. By the way, it is unseen that a Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economic Affairs has just come to propose their own plan just to make a political statement, because the PS feels the hot breath of the PTB-PVDA in the neck. The economic situation is far from favourable to Belgium. This is also demonstrated by the IMF report and economic indicators. We have the lowest economic growth after Italy. In the second quarter there is even zero growth, which does not even cover inflation. We have the highest public expenditure, almost the highest taxes, and inflation is higher than elsewhere. So it doesn't look good for our economy, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we are specifically asking for a stronger purchasing power policy now, for structural measures to boost the growth potential of our economy further, for the competitiveness of our businesses and for the maintenance and expansion of jobs, and for everything to be done and not to fail to curb inflation, which is higher in Belgium than elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u192	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u193	Yes 83 Yes No. [[45]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 131 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u194	These inquiries were developed in a public meeting of the Committee on External Relations on 1 June 2022. These interviews were held at the public meeting of the External Relations Commission of 1 June 2022. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 286/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Steven De Vuyst; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Nabil Boukili; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Goedele Liekens. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 286/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Steven De Vuyst; - a second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Nabil Boukili; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Goedele Liekens. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u195	Recently, the report of the UN Human Rights Council confirmed that the cause of the spiral of violence in the Palestinian territories is Israeli aggression and criminal occupation. We are pleased that the UN reaffirms what we have known for 55 years, namely that there is occupation, annexation, colonisation and apartheid, exercised by the State of Israel and subjected by the Palestinian people. Israel is therefore a champion in violating international law and human rights; it is sufficient to refer to the numerous UN resolutions, rulings of the International Court of Justice and the UN reports. Israel also has a sad track record in killing Palestinian journalists. Recently, the Palestinian journalist Shireen Abu Akleh was cold-bloodedly executed by a sniper of the Israeli army. The stand now stands at more than 50 journalists shot to death in 20 years. We are actually genuinely wondering what Israel has to do before this government calls Israel to order. In the Committee on External Relations, the Prime Minister, in response to this interplay, at a time when he would investigate whether the products from illegal Israeli colonies could not be banned from Belgium. Less than half a day later, he was whistled back by his own cabinet. So, ladies and gentlemen, I wonder who decides foreign policy here and how long the current Vivaldi government will continue to pursue that two-and-two-weight sanctions policy. We can only see that the current government is apparently not going to take any action against Israeli aggression. That is why we tabled the motion for a recommendation, in which we call on the Government to bring the war crimes of Israel, including the murder of the journalist Shireen Abu Akleh, before the International Criminal Court and to impose sanctions on the State of Israel as a matter of urgency, and to plead for them at European level, so that Belgium and the European Union no longer finance the illegal war of the State of Israel against the Palestinian people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u196	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a thousand and two hundred people will be expelled from their homes because of a decision by the State of Israel. A thousand two hundred people will be excluded on the basis of a decision of the State of Israel. Why don't you want to hear what we have to say about this? I have tabled a motion. Why, it hurts you to hear about Israel? Here, a thousand two hundred people, eight villages are concerned! People who will be expelled from their homes is a violation of international law! And no sanction has been taken by the government here in Belgium against the State of Israel! Why? Why don't we take sanctions when it comes to Israel? Under pressure, the Prime Minister had stated that sanctions against Israel would be under consideration. When it comes to other countries, it is no longer a question of study, but of sanctioning directly. When it is Israel, dozens of resolutions, there are studies. And for this little request, the retropedal prime minister 12 hours later – not even 24 hours. I wonder who's in charge of the Prime Minister's office! Who put pressure on him to come back to his words? Madam President, I am tabling a motion calling for sanctions against the State of Israel, because the UN report just published confirms that it is the impunity of the State of Israel that is a factor of violence in what is happening today. If violence against the Palestinian people is to stop, they must be punished against that State of apartheid. I am giving this House and this Parliament the opportunity and opportunity to vote on this motion and thus avoid double standards and to make a decision once in favour of the Palestinian people who have been colonised for more than 74 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u197	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u198	Yes 81 Yes No. 30 No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 130 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u199	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the National Defence Commission on June 1, 2022. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Defence Commission on 1 June 2022. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 290/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Annick Ponthier; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Theo Francken and Peter Buysrogge; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Hugues Bayet. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 290/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Annick Ponthier; - a second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Theo Francken and Mr Peter Buysrogge; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Hugues Bayet. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u200	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to repeat, for the most part, what we mentioned in the Committee on Defence when I interviewed Mrs Dedonder, Minister for Defence. Security and defence are core tasks of our government. In order to be able to carry out these core tasks, our Defense Department simply needs to have the capabilities and resources to defend our territory. This requires more staff, more budget, more equipment and purchases. These must of course be smart purchases, not the purchases that we have recently been allowed to hear through the media and which are contained in the STAR plan and the programming law, by introducing Minister Dedonder to the committee members. With the war in Ukraine in mind, we have heard Mr De Croo, the Prime Minister of this country, say that he would step up his efforts. He would like to get the proposed 2% of GDP by 2035. Minister Dedonder is still at 1.54 % by 2030, but Prime Minister De Croo wants to do the punishment. He has to go to Madrid in a few weeks, of course, to the NATO summit. He'd like to unpack there with a firm promise. In fact, the Minister of Defence did not answer the question in committee as to what she thinks of that promise. It merely referred to the fact that it is not a figure fetishist and that the 2% that NATO puts first is not a dogma for the defence industry. For us, that 2% is crucial, because it is necessary to keep the DOD running. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u201	Madam President, we had also tabled a motion on Mrs Ponthier's interpretation. We are at two weeks from probably the most important summit in more than ten years of NATO and there is still no Belgian plan for 2% and long-term investment. The Prime Minister would like to suffer a plan and not a loss of face, but he has not yet been granted it. He's in the Congo, and there are no additional meetings. It's gonna have to happen, and it's starting to work. We certainly also support NATO's request, signed by Mr Di Rupo in 2014, through the motion to achieve 2% investment in Defence. That seems to us to be the absolute minimum. We would like to see this by 2030, the government by 2035. Fair enough. That decision has to fall now. We ask the government to take that decision of 2% in the very short term and not to let our country suffer a loss of face in Madrid in two weeks' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u202	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u203	Yes 79 Yes No. [[46]] No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 132 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u204	Vote on Amendment No 22 by Annick Ponthier cs to point 2. (2151/7) Vote on Amendment No 22 from Annick Ponthier cs at point 2. (2151/7) Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u205	Madam President, under the circumstances I could not be here this afternoon, I would like to give an explanation of vote on this resolution. The importance of research and support for victims of illegal adoption from abroad in the past has already been frequently mentioned by our group in committee. It also needs little argument. The resolution was originally too vague and too incoherent, needed to be supplemented, clarified and improved, at least in part. This was partly due to the statements made by experts, but certainly also because of the statements made by the victims during the often emotional and captivating hearings. However, we feel that the adjustments are still too limited. We have therefore drawn up additional points of improvement and points of attention through amendments that are before us. These amendments sometimes come almost literally from questions from the victims themselves. Who knows better than she what they need to improve their situation? Who better than she puts the importance of the victims first, colleagues? We did not see that in committee, where our amendments were voted off without a twist. That's a shame. That is why we are once again giving colleagues the opportunity to support these amendments. For us, the importance of the victims is paramount. I hope the same for my fellow Members. Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u206	Yes [[17]] Yes No. [[115]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 23 by Annick Ponthier cs in point 3.1. (2151/7) Vote on Amendment No 23 from Annick Ponthier cs at point 3.1. (2151/7) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u207	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 24 by Annick Ponthier cs in point 3.3. (2151/7) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Annick Ponthier cs at point 3.3. (2151/7) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u208	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 25 by Annick Ponthier cs in point 3.13. (2151/7) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Annick Ponthier cs at point 3.13. (2151/7) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u209	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 26 by Annick Ponthier cs to insert a point 3.14(n). (2151/7) Vote on Amendment No 26 of Annick Ponthier cs inserting a point 3.14(n). (2151/7) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u210	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 27 by Annick Ponthier cs to insert a point 3.15(n). (2151/7) Vote on Amendment No 27 of Annick Ponthier cs inserting a point 3.15(n). (2151/7) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u211	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 28 by Annick Ponthier cs to insert a point 3.17(n). (2151/7) Vote on Amendment No 28 by Annick Ponthier cs to insert a point 3.17(n). (2151/7) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u212	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 29 by Annick Ponthier cs to insert a point 3.18(n). (2151/7) Vote on Amendment No 29 by Annick Ponthier cs inserting a point 3.18(n). (2151/7) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u213	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 30 by Annick Ponthier cs to insert a point 3.19(n). (2151/7) Vote on Amendment No 30 from Annick Ponthier cs to insert a point 3.19(n). (2151/7) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u214	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u215	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u216	Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u217	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u218	Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u219	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u220	Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u221	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u222	Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u223	Madam President, I did not have the opportunity to vote on the previous text. Of course I supported him.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u224	Vote on Amendment No 19 by Dominiek Sneppe to Article 9. (2656/8) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Dominiek Sneppe on Article 9. (2656/08) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u225	Yes [[17]] Yes No. 95 No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 20 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to Article 12. (2656/08) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Dominiek Sneppe cs on Article 12. (2656/8) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u226	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 21 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to Articles 19 and 20. (2656/08) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Dominiek Sneppe cs on Articles 19 and 20. (2656/8) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u227	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Articles 19 and 20 were adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Articles 19 and 20 were adopted. Vote on Amendment No 22 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to Rule 53. (2656/08) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Dominiek Sneppe cs on Article 53. (2656/8) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u228	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 53 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 53 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 23 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to Rule 64. (2656/08) Vote on Amendment No 23 by Dominiek Sneppe cs on Article 64. (2656/8) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u229	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 64 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 64 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 24 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to Rule 65. (2656/08) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Dominiek Sneppe cs on article 65. (2656/8) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u230	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 65 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 65 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u231	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u232	Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u233	Yes 107 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u234	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u235	Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u236	Voters [[120]] Stemmen White or invalid 29 Blank or invalid Valid 91 Geldig Absolute majority 46 Perfect majority Judicial world World of justice Ms Camille Leroy obtained 77 votes. Mrs Camille Leroy received 77 votes. Ms. Stephanie Mees obtained 10 votes. Mrs Stéphanie Mees received 10 votes. Civil society Civil society Ms. Estelle Ceulemans obtained 83 votes. Mrs Estelle Ceulemans received 83 votes. Ms. Stephanie Mees obtained 4 votes. Mrs Stéphanie Mees received four votes. Social partners Social partners Ms. Estelle Ceulemans obtained 3 votes. Mrs Estelle Ceulemans received three votes. (1) Ms. Camille Leroy, having obtained an absolute majority, is declared an effective member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. Mrs Camille Leroy, who has received an absolute majority, has been appointed as an effective member of the Executive Board of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. (2) Ms. Estelle Ceulemans, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared an effective member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. Mrs Estelle Ceulemans, who has received an absolute majority, has been appointed an effective member of the Executive Board of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u237	Voters 122 Stemmen White or invalid 25 Blank or invalid Valid 97 Geldig Absolute majority 49 Perfect majority Judicial world World of justice Mrs. Regine Claeys obtained 1 vote. Mrs. Regine Claeys received one vote. Mr. Willem Debeuckelaere obtained 0 votes. Mr Willem Debeuckelaere received 0 votes. Dr. Evelien de Kezel a obtenu 1 voix. Dr. Evelien de Kezel received one vote. Dr. Karel Demeester a obtenu 1 voix. Dr. Karel Demeester received one vote. Laura De Witte obtained 0 votes. Mrs. Laura De Witte got 0 votes. Ms. Nicole D'hont received 0 votes. Mrs Nicole D'hont received 0 votes. Ms. Lore Geraerts obtained 0 votes. Mrs Lore Geraerts received 0 votes. Mr Johan Heymans obtained 0 votes. Mr Johan Heymans received 0 votes. Mr. Pierre Lefranc obtained 0 votes. Mr Pierre Lefranc received 0 votes. Mr. Lieven Lenaerts obtained 0 votes. Mr Lieven Lenaerts received 0 votes. Mr. Bruno Lietaert obtained 82 votes. Mr Bruno Lietaert received 82 votes. Ms Evelyne Maes obtained 13 votes. Mrs Evelyne Maes received 13 votes. Mr. Tom Ruysschaert obtained 0 votes. Mr Tom Ruysschaert received 0 votes. Mr. Patrick Senaeve obtained 0 votes. Mr Patrick Senaeve received 0 votes. Mr. Walter Thiery obtained 0 votes. Mr Walter Thiery received 0 votes. Catherine Van de Heyning obtained 74 votes. Mrs Catherine Van de Heyning received 74 votes. Ms Eve Vlemincx obtained 0 votes. Mrs Eve Vlemincx received 0 votes. Civil society Civil society Mr Yves Aerts obtained 22 votes. Mr Yves Aerts received 22 votes. Mr. Willem Debeuckelaere obtained 0 votes. Mr Willem Debeuckelaere received 0 votes. M. Eduard Laurijssen a obtenu 0 voix. Mr Eduard Laurijssen received 0 votes. Mr. Tom Ruysschaert obtained 0 votes. Mr Tom Ruysschaert received 0 votes. Social partners Social partners Mme Ineke De Bishop a obtenu 0 voix. Mrs. Ineke De Bishop received 0 votes. Mr. Joris Verschueren obtained 0 votes. Mr Joris Verschueren received 0 votes. (1) Mr Bruno Lietaert, having obtained an absolute majority, is hereby declared an effective member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. Mr Bruno Lietaert, who received the absolute majority, has been appointed an effective member of the Executive Board of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. (2) Ms. Catherine Van de Heyning, having obtained an absolute majority, is declared an effective member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. Mrs Catherine Van de Heyning, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed an effective member of the Executive Board of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u238	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u239	Yes 98 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 28 Abstensions Total 126 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-09-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip185x.u240	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, June 16, 2022, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 16 June 2022 at 2.15 p.m.
