ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u1	Madam President, I didn't hear what you said. I wanted to propose to the committee that it work in order to try to get to the end in the most effective way possible because there are still a lot of questions. In the current debate, I wanted to propose that Members refer to the written questions because I think it is the most effective. Each group could still decide to express an oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u2	Everyone decides how he or she raises the questions and each group can, of course, ask its questions. In order for it to be efficient, I apply the usual rules, two minutes per question. So if you have three questions, you have six minutes. About ten minutes per person is fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u3	Madam President, the Rules of Procedure do not actually provide for the practice of referring to the question tabled in writing. A certain amount of speaking time has been provided for, and I assume that every Member can and can use the speaking time that is due to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u4	I had another request. It has been seen, unless I am mistaken, that the issue of women's issues has been included in the current debate. In view of the fact that we are today on 8 March and that the women's issues are - I am not saying that this is the case in the committee, but it is too often the case in society - in a way "mixed into a package", I wanted to propose that, despite everything, this question be taken out, but it was in the belief that we were not going to be able to ask all our questions. If each group can decide what questions it is asking and what the minister's answer is, I see no problem in doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u5	I suggest that every speaker in the actua debate on the labour deal should, as usual, ask all the questions at once. A speaking time of about two minutes per question is foreseen. When I look at the number of questions per author, speaking time may vary from two to eight minutes. The Minister will then give a global answer. It's customary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u6	Minister, I am glad to see you again in good health. You're welcome. My question is about the employment deal, as are several questions put by other Members a few weeks ago. The work deal was an important subject of discussion within and outside the government at the time my question was tabled. The subject is still very important to me, although, unfortunately, there are other things that are now in touch with the current situation. The employment deal is extremely important because of the ambitions imposed by the current government, but also by the other governments in this country, for example in terms of the level of activity, which, of course, is not an end in itself. This degree is above all an important parameter in which we should be able to measure the growth of prosperity and well-being in this country. That is the ultimate goal of anyone who controls here in this country in one place or another. Even those who don't send along, including me, have the ambition to join the cart. The closed work deal is partly the implementation of what was agreed by the government at the end of 2022 in the framework of the budget. However, experience with the current government has shown us that it is waiting to see if the deal will be effective as it has been announced, not least because it has to go to the National Labour Council for advice first. This therefore depends on the position that the social partners will take on this issue and then on the attitude which the government will adopt on the basis of their opinion. In the meantime, pending the opinion of the National Labour Council, the employment deal would be further supplemented within the government, which is in itself special. Further work would be carried out on proposals for asymmetric trade market policies, which we very much welcome. After all, that is one of the things that has not yet been included in the employment deal. The measures which are very specific about activation have not yet been included in the labour agreement. In this respect, it is at least as important to look at what has not yet been included. Apparently, there would be parallel circuits working on a further complement to that labor deal. Is it true, Minister, that other slopes are being developed along the same lines as the labour market reform? If so, which slopes are involved? Secondly, does the government have an agreement to supplement the employment deal with other elements? What elements are these?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u7	In general, Minister, I would like to ask you to clarify the timing and concrete measures of the employment deal. I have also submitted a more technical question on the side effects of the employment deal. According to De Standaard, the system of the four-day working week has some unexpected side effects. In this way, the employees concerned receive fewer meal cheques. In addition, there can also be an impact on the right to time credit. The collective agreement provides for the right to time credit for a five-day week. This may cause problems for those who complete their full-time work in four days. The same applies to annual holidays. Minister, will this be taken into account in the roll-out of the labour deal? Is there a list of all expected side effects? Can you give an overview of that? Will this be passed on to the social partners when they are consulted on the employment deal? Does the administration have knowledge of other side effects that we are not yet aware of? What solutions are being developed to this end? I am also launching a general call for the framing of telework. Today we are all here again physically present for the meeting, without a mouth mask. It's good to see each other and to be able to talk to each other properly again. However, telework will continue to exist. I assume that collective agreement 141 is over, as teleworking is neither compulsory nor recommended for longer. The work deal also includes the right to deconnection. Minister, when will the social partners propose a structural framework for teleworking? How will compensation be arranged for all workers who still receive different bills through telework or homework?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u8	Minister, I am wearing two hats, a hat on the budget and a hat on institutional reforms. First of all, I want to talk about the budget. This morning, we had Mr De Bleeker's Secretary of State for Budget. The budget was adopted in December. In January there appeared to be deficits and an additional 200 million was requested for additional expenditure. Now, another month later, there will be another invoice of 900 million euros. On the budget deficit, which was already huge, there is an additional deficit of EUR 1.1 billion. And we're only two months away. Where's that gonna end? I'm really holding my heart for that. I hear a lot of proposals to give extra support. That is right, we are in very special times, with Ukraine; energy, social interventions and so on. In the Committee on Budgets, however, we get very little information about revenue. It is not about tax increases, it is about getting more people working. During the morning almost nothing was said in the Committee on Budgets about the labour market. I kind of understand why that is. After all, there may not be much money coming from your flank. The experts were quite devastating about the labor deal that is a mini-deal that will not make it 80 %. I hope that you can provide additional information and say that these are just the shot notes and that there will be more. That brings me to the institutional question. I've questioned Minister Verlinden in the Constitutional Commission about your labor deal. She said that the work deal is but for now, that there will also be measures in the area of asymmetric policy. She literally said that there is an agreement in the government to add these measures and integrate them into the same bill. How will you do that? Apparently, there's an agreement. That bill now goes to the social partners and the Council of State and then comes back to the government for second reading. Apparently, there is an agreement that will be added to the draft law at second reading and that will no longer go to the Council of State. That all seems very strange to me. Minister, did CD&V give us the correct information or did the party buy a cat in a bag?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u9	Minister, the government knocked off the labour deal on 11 February. It contains important measures to make the labour market more flexible and to make notice periods more activating. The employment deal is, of course, an important one, but not the only yard to achieve the 80% efficiency rate by 2030. The government is also working to increase the possibilities for workers in long-term incapacity to return to work, in another job, in another company or even in another sector. We cannot just give up half a million people and condemn them to benefit. There is also a third yard, mainly but not only in the territory of the Regions. They must lead people to a job by a strong succession of job seekers, by training them, coaching them and so on. In order to play a supporting role in this too, the government decided on a number of measures in its budget agreement of October 2021. There will be an inter-federal platform to encourage labour mobility between regions. Home-work transport and language barriers will have to be taken into account. Job seekers should be accompanied to suitable vacancies in other regions. The regions are given greater autonomy with regard to the availability of job seekers. The accumulation of unemployment benefits with regional contributions for training in a bottleneck profession is eased, etc. What is the state of implementation of these measures? Do you already discuss this with the Regions? If so, what level is this at? What's the further timing? Is there an asymmetrical implementation of measures between the regions? Will cooperation agreements be concluded to implement these measures? If so, on which themes and according to what timetable?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u10	Madam President, since this is an actua debate, any political group can speak in a first round, including those who have not tabled any questions. The political groups should pool their views. If everyone now has a second explanation before the Minister has had the chance to reply, we will be here for a while. Didn't leave me. I would like to speak a second time if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u11	Mr Anseuw, I do not think Mrs Moscufo intended to ask for the floor twice. The political groups shall include all their questions in a single statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u12	Madam President, I am asking you because I suddenly see 16 minutes of speaking time on the screen.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u13	Two minutes are allocated for each oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u14	Madam President, the questions have been asked, haven't they?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u15	No, Mrs Moscufo has not yet spoken. You're wrong. Mrs Moscufo will now speak for the first time. It can ask all its questions, for which it has two minutes per question, a total of 16 minutes to deal with the whole package of questions, with the accents it wishes to lay. After that, the Minister will reply. Of course, all the questions were submitted in advance. The Minister will take account of the questions raised in the reply. I hope it's that obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u16	Madam President, thank you. I really hope that now I get it. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u17	Moreover, it is our responsibility that discussions on platform workers continued after the agreement on the work of 15 February. They dealt with two aspects. First of all, with respect to workplace accidents, the minister had said that he wanted to put things in place to improve the issue of workplace accidents for platform workers. The other aspect was to clarify the issue of the status of these workers. Will the extension of the Workers' Accidents Act also cover all workers on the platforms, including those working under the collaborative economy, i.e. 84% of workers? As far as the clarification of the status is concerned, you speak of a rebuttable presumption of wage earners. Does this mean that platforms that would like to work with claimants under a different status/regime than wage-earners should obtain prior authorisation from the Commission Labour Regulations to do so? What about it? My next question is about night work in e-commerce. I have a few questions about that. What are the adverse health effects of night work and what impact does this work have on accidents at work? What do you answer to those who blame you - we are part of it - for pursuing the policy of the Michel government by further individualizing the employment relationship, that is to say, at the level where the worker is the least strong and where the balance of power is clearly in favour of the employer? Do you not fear a much faster deterioration of labour relations? How do you also respond to those who say that by doing so, you are also contributing to the actual deterioration of the reconciliation between private and professional life? Why did you short-circuit discussions at the National Labour Council on e-commerce, and why didn't you meet their commitment to conduct a broad conference on e-commerce? Why did you introduce a measure which was in fact a request of the employer in the last interprofessional agreement and which was refused by the union, when you are in principle concerned with social consultation? How do you respond to those who claim that you actually acted under Comeos' lobbyism? What is your reaction to the article by the economist Etienne de Callataÿ, published in the Future of February 16, which explains that the impact on the use of your measures will be relatively insignificant and therefore anecdotal? That's for question 19. As regards questions Nos 55025774C, 55025776C, 55025778C and 55025779C, I shall refer to the written text.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u18	Question No 24 concerns the International Day of Struggle for Women's Rights on Tuesday, 8 March. Above all, I would like to greet all the women who are demonstrating across the country. I would like to stress my support for all the workers in the service titles who are now carrying out an action they have called "mousse-nettoyage" consisting of spreading cleaning foam on the windows of the major brands of the securities and services agencies. These women have been struggling since last autumn for a sectoral framework that does not end up in the face of an arrogant employer. In your policy note, there are some improvements that affect women in the world of work. Some progress can be welcomed. In our view, some measures are insufficient and we regret that, which leads us to ask you a few questions. Minister, in what way, in your opinion, will the labour deal really improve the conditions of women in the labour market? What are you going to do to combat involuntary part-time work, particularly for women? What are you doing to improve the salaries of women who are generally lower than those of their male counterparts? What are you doing to address pay gaps? How do you see the real improvement in the reconciliation between women's working and family life? Do you not see a contradiction with a landmark measure of your agreement, which is the legalization of the ten-hour day? What are you going to do to combat discrimination against women in the labour market itself? Madam President, I think I've gone through my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u19	Mrs Moscufo, you say that you are referring to the text of your question as tabled. However, this is a topical debate. You have given an explanation and the report will simply include that explanation. The text of your questions will therefore not be added. You have also said that you want to translate one of your questions into a written question, but you will have to put that question as a written question. Those are the rules of the topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u20	Madam President, I would like to take the floor for a moment in the wake of the discussions we had in plenary where, Mr President, you said about this job deal: "I do not want low-cost jobs." There, I am in full agreement with you and it is perhaps now that we need to have the utmost attention to the implementation of this job deal and, above all, its practical implementation in companies and in all companies, for men and women, for workers and for workers. In the e-commerce sector, we raised the issue of the surcharge for work between 8:00 p.m. and 24:00 p.m. With this job deal, how will this work between 8:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. be handled, where there are CTCs, if there are any? Clearly, for us, this adaptation to a new labour market cannot be accompanied by wage cuts for workers. The second element is evaluation. It seems essential to me to evaluate these measures related to the e-commerce sector. Minister, when can this assessment take place? According to what schedule? Thirdly, with regard to the issue of disconnection, I very much and enthusiastically welcome the initiatives taken around it, but I wonder what is planned for workers in the smallest companies to be able to promote their well-being. Finally, fourthly, with regard to the question of control, how can the Social Inspectorate work properly? This raises the question of the society we want, since, with 470,000 disabled people at the end of 2020, if we do not want to double because of the impact on the health of workers, we need to ask ourselves the question of what price we want to adapt the labour market to? How are we going to evaluate? In any case, I invite you to take workers' health into account in the assessment indicators. I will be pleased to hear the criteria for this evaluation and the schedule that you will implement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, your many questions bear witness to the importance of this matter to all of us. Employment is fundamental to the government and to all governments in this country, as we collectively set ourselves the ambitious goal of achieving an employment rate of 80% by 2030. I am confident that we will not reach this 80% employment rate with low cost jobs. On the contrary, we will achieve this goal by supporting the world of work, by fighting exclusions, all forms of discrimination and by valuing work. I would like to point out that despite the crisis or the unprecedented crises we are experiencing today, the employment rate has reached a record level in Belgium. Indeed, when the government was set up, the employment rate was 69.9%. It is now 71.4%. As a result, the employment rate has increased by 1.5% since the government took office. It is also 1% higher than it was before the onset of the coronavirus crisis. This is reflected in the figures for the number of jobseekers in the three regions. We have seen a decrease in unemployment in the three regions, although more important in Flanders, but the trend is common to the three regions and it is now supported month after month, which we must rejoice at. As of October 2020, there were 337,312 job seekers. By December 2021 there were 280,364. This represents almost 60,000 fewer jobseekers across the country. Compared to before the start of the health crisis, there are almost 50,000 fewer job seekers. We see these trends in the three regions of this country. The latest figures provided by the VDAB and Actiris also show that collaboration between the various regional employment services, particularly between the VDAB and Actiris, has been strengthened, which we should all welcome. As you know, the government has agreed on a plan containing important measures for the labour market. These measures aim in particular at supporting workers, providing them with opportunities to foster reconciliation between private and professional life, improving their mobility in the labour market, combating the shortage of jobs and promoting diversity in the labour market. These measures have been translated into a preliminary draft law which has been approved by the Council of Ministers. This project is now being forwarded to the social partners and to the legislation section of the Council of State. With regard to your questions on timing, the social partners have two months to deliver their opinions. The social partners are also invited to make further proposals on the following subject. Firstly, the possibility for workers with variable part-time schedules to determine on a voluntary basis days of exemption from benefits. Secondly, give effect to the obligation imposed by the judgment in C55/18 of the European Court of Justice to register the daily and weekly working hours of each worker in an objective, reliable and accessible manner. Thirdly, an improvement in the arrangements for taking up employment leave. Fourthly, an improvement in the system of the employers' group, with particular attention to the possibilities for tackling bottlenecks in the professions. The opinion of the social partners, which I hope will be as unanimous as possible, will of course be analysed with the greatest attention within the government. The draft will be amended as necessary for the second reading in the Council of Ministers. The draft law will then be submitted to you so that we can debate it. I would also like to point out that these are not the only measures taken or will be taken by the government in the field of work. I would remind you, for example, that in addition to the crisis measures which have helped to support companies and workers with the results we know and which I have just recalled, the government, together with the social partners, has adopted a major improvement in the minimum wage. It is also, and perhaps above all, a way of improving the quality of work. This upgrading is a first in 15 years, let's say. The government has also agreed on tax and parafiscal measures to support low and medium wages under the mini taxshift. I have also organised a conference on employment for harmonious careers, following which an action plan is being finalized. This plan should facilitate the retention of older workers. Other measures are also analysed, on my proposal, by the inter-federal platform set up by the Inter-ministerial Employment Conference, a platform in which federal and regional administrations participate. The first analyses of this platform are expected on 15 March and 15 April. At the end of March, an inter-ministerial conference is planned to look at what can be implemented in the short term. I can therefore confirm that measures will soon be expected. This includes taking into account volunteering in the context of reintegration pathways or greater autonomy for the regions in the field of exemptions, for example, in order to receive full-time training. Of course, the intention is to implement an asymmetric policy in the three regions if necessary. Mr Loones, these are essentially measures which can be taken by royal decree and which are therefore, logically, not included in the law laying down various provisions in the field of employment. If a legislative amendment is necessary, I will, of course, examine this option. The Royal Decrees on the cumulation of a premium or training income and on the partial cumulation of benefits in the case of employment in a bottleneck profession or in another region were analysed by the social partners in the Management Committee of the RVA. I have, of course, taken account of the opinions delivered. These texts will soon be submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. With regard to the Government's action in the area of women's rights, it was not limited to the various measures contained in the draft law on various provisions in the field of labour. Indeed, the members of the government, along with the Secretary of State for Gender Equality, have committed themselves to an integrated gender approach in all policies implemented. In addition to this cross-cutting approach, a number of specific measures are being taken to combat discrimination and reconcile work and private life. We are, for example, installing a "Diversity" cell within the Employment FPS. It will receive reports from the Joint Committees on disparities in the structure of employment, particularly in terms of gender. On the basis of the "explain or complain" principle, the Joint Committees will have to justify the differences in treatment that exist or adopt action plans to put an end to them. The "Diversity" Unit will be responsible for verifying these reports and action plans. It will support the Joint Committees in this fundamental work. At the same time, I will also make sure that positive action plans are improved so that companies can make better use of this instrument. As far as the fight against discrimination is concerned, we have already had the opportunity to debate in this committee a bill to improve the situation tests. I hope that it will be adopted quickly, as it is in progress. In addition, my administration is working on an in-depth evaluation of the regulations on the gender pay gap in order to lead to a project that makes it more effective. These reflections obviously take account of the ongoing European initiative on wage transparency. It was also necessary to ensure that an ambitious policy to combat the wage gap at European level was maintained. Another important aspect to be highlighted is the regulation of well-being at work, with the application of ILO Convention 190 on violence at work and the compliance of our regulations with the Hakelbracht decision on the protection of witnesses and victims of dismissal as reprisals. I have also asked my services to work on the ratification of ILO Convention 183 on maternity and reconciliation between private and professional life, which is a fundamental tool for strengthening professional equality. We are also discussing within the government a bill to transpose the work-life balance directive to, among other things, improve family leave. I would also remind you that the government has, from the moment it took office, doubled the birth leave. The draft law on various provisions also provides for measures to enable the worker to adapt his working hours, particularly in the case of alternate custody. In addition, the minimum time limit for the communication of variable part-time hours will be increased. The majority of women in our country are involved in part-time work. Other measures such as the right to disconnect and the creation of an individual right to training also contribute to strengthening women's right to training. For the first time, we are putting in place an individual right to training. Under this right, every worker will finally have the right to access training. Exceptions will be made for enterprises employing fewer than ten workers. In order to increase the emphasis on worker training, companies with more than 20 employees will have to put in place a training plan. This plan will have to be discussed annually by the company's social partners, with a view to concerted action on training policy within the company, to assess its needs in order to strengthen workers' skills. It is true that this plan will only be mandatory in enterprises employing more than 20 workers. This is obviously not discrimination since this exception is intended to take account of the particularities and specificities of SMEs and ICTs. The aim of this concerted training plan is to establish objective rules in this field. With regard to the monitoring and evaluation of training plans, I confirm that an evaluation is planned not later than 2024. As regards questions on the possibility of exercising weekly working time over four days, it is important first to point out that this is the first time that the working time legislation provides for and expressly allows the worker himself to adapt his working hours. To date, flexibility has only been seen from the employer's point of view. In this respect, it is essential to clarify that this measure can only be implemented at the worker's prior and explicit request. Thus, the worker will never be forced to do so. Similarly, the worker will be able to change his mind if this method of organisation no longer suits him. Of course, I am fully aware that the worker is sometimes in a position of weakness in relation to his employer, and that it is not always easy to refuse an application from the employer. That is why I have ensured a special procedure in order to ensure that the worker's will is respected. First, the measure can only be implemented after a collective bargaining procedure. In any case, an amendment to the working regulations will be necessary in order to put this possibility in place. In some cases, a collective labour agreement will also be required. This collective procedure will enable workers' representatives to analyse the situation and ensure that workers are accepted. As you know, an amendment to the working regulations requires that this change be brought to the attention of the workers. If a worker has remarks, there is a conciliation phase involving the inspection services. If conciliation has not been successful, the social partners of the Joint Committee will be involved. Only then can the measure be introduced only at the written request of the worker. That written request shall be valid for six months. If the worker does not renew the application, the measure shall be terminated. Where the employer accepts the worker's request, a contract must be concluded. In the event of a check, for example following a complaint, the worker's agreement and the agreement concluded will have to be presented to the social inspectors under penalty of a fine. Finally, a copy of the Convention should be forwarded to the Committee for Prevention and Protection at Work and, failing that, to the trade union delegation. Workers' representatives will therefore be adequately informed of those who make use of this opportunity. The Committee on Prevention and Protection at Work may therefore also adopt specific measures to ensure the health, safety and well-being of the persons concerned. Attention is therefore paid to the well-being of workers. This measure does not, of course, in any way call into question time credits. This is a complementary possibility that is offered to workers. To answer a specific question from Mrs Moscufo, you will note that, unlike credit-times, here the worker does not see a significant reduction in his earnings, since he does not reduce his working time but, if he wishes, adjusts his working hours over four days. Similarly, there is no challenge to the mechanisms for collective reduction of working time. On the contrary, the social partners can always conclude agreements to reduce working time collectively. The evaluation of the current mechanism for reducing contributions in the event of a collective reduction in working time will soon be carried out so that it can be used more widely, as provided for in the government agreement. As regards the questions on the impact of the measure on annual holidays when switching from a full-time five-day week to a full-time four-day week, I can tell you that the number of days of leave after the switch will be reduced pro rata. However, this does not mean that the worker would lose vacation rights. Like full-time employees in a five-day week, the full-time employee will be entitled to 4 weeks of annual leave in a four-day week. In order to take one week's vacation, the employee must take 5 days' vacation in a five-day week, while the employee must take only 4 days' vacation in a four-day week. This explains the difference in the number of holidays between the two employees. In any event, the aim of the measure is obviously not to penalize workers who decide to use this measure. To this end, if adjustments to other legislation are necessary, they will, of course, also be made. I have indeed instructed the administration to take stock of the various legislation which could be affected by this measure. With regard to the alternate work week, I confirm that the limits are 9 hours/day and 45 hours/week. With regard to employability measures, the current article 39b of the Labour Contract Act provides that in the event of notice of more than 30 weeks, the worker's notice must be reduced by one third, in order to finance employability measures. This article has always been the subject of a great deal of controversy, particularly on the part of workers' representatives, who rightly felt that it was not desirable to reduce workers' rights in order to finance their employability. This was, of course, an important point which systematically undermined social consultation. We will therefore replace this article 39ter, so that the worker is given full notice. On the other hand, additional employability measures will be provided to workers on notice of at least 30 weeks' notice. These measures will be financed by employer social contributions on the last third of the notice. In concrete terms, in the event of prior notice, the worker will have the right to be absent from work to follow employability measures. In the event of a compensatory notice allowance, the worker will also be able to follow employability measures. In both cases, the worker will not be subject to a reduction in his notice or compensatory notice allowance, contrary to what is currently provided for in Article 39ter. It was essential for me to finally be able to find a solution and to find a solution to the implementation of this article more than problematic for workers. The worker will also be able to choose, once it has been implemented, to put this budget into an individual training account. Failure to follow these employability measures will have no impact on unemployment benefits and nothing is foreseen in this regard. Employability measures will consist of outplacement measures or training. The worker is therefore free to choose the training he wishes to take, possibly after consulting with a regional employment agency. The worker will obviously also be able to choose the claimant. It can therefore turn to public bodies. This is explicitly provided for in the bill. These measures are in addition to the current outplacement and solicitation leave. They therefore have no impact on soliciting leave, which may also always be used by the worker for the purpose of applying for a new job. As regards the relationship with the transitional journeys, it should be recalled that at the end of such a journey, the worker will be offered an indefinite contract. Logically, since the worker has found a new job, he will obviously be able to choose to keep this training budget on his individual training account, but this is not an obligation. Indeed, the worker may also decide to be absent from work during his transition journey in order to follow employability measures. The transition route does not change the worker's right to these employability measures. A transition process means that an employee who has been dismissed and has to perform a notice period is made available to another employer user during that period. The transition is an additional possibility for the parties, not an obligation. Neither the employee nor the employer is therefore obliged to enter a transition path. The unemployment regulation also does not include sanctions in the event of a worker refusing a transition and decides to perform his notice period with his own employee. Other rights are also not affected, for example the right to work leave during the period of notice. If, at the end of the transition, the employer user does not employ the employee and does not offer a fixed-term contract, no remuneration shall be payable. The fee shall be paid for half the period of the transition. The employer user can stop the transition process prematurely via a cancellation. In this case, the employee returns to his own employer to perform the remaining part of his notice period. For that remainder, the employee will then continue to receive his normal wage paid by his own employer. I would also point out that a worker who accepts a transitional journey will have to receive a minimum wage. I am saying: at a minimum, because if the job he occupies during the journey involves a higher wage, the worker will benefit from it. Mrs Vanrobaeys, the right to deconnection is included in the preliminary draft law. Companies with at least 20 employees must establish the modalities for the right to deconnect through a collective agreement at company level or, in the absence thereof, through the company's working regulations. This is an essential measure to allow workers to blow outside their working hours, to ensure that workers who, for example, would request to work on an alternate weekly schedule can actually take advantage of these moments to devote themselves to their family or leisure. But it is also fundamental for greater well-being at work, which is a red line of my employment policy. I was also asked why this measure was only intended for companies with more than 20 workers. Again, account should be taken of the fact that smaller enterprises generally do not have a representative body for workers and that the application of this measure is therefore more complicated. I come now to the 1971 Labour Act, which is of public order and which must therefore always be respected. Of course, it is not a question of allowing workers to work outside working hours. The aim here is to define, in accordance with consultation, tools and procedures enabling workers to disconnect. An evaluation of the measure is also planned for 2024. With regard to the recording of working time, as I mentioned at the start of my reply, the social partners were asked to make concrete proposals in this area. As regards the structural framework for telework, the issue is on the agenda of the National Labour Council. The work has been suspended after prior consultations but is expected to resume shortly. It was also an invitation from the last Consultation Committee. Following the end of compulsory or strongly recommended telework, the Consultation Committee instructed the social partners to resume consultation on the establishment of a structural telework policy within enterprises. I now come to your questions about e-commerce. To set up night work between 8 p.m. and midnight, a collective labour agreement will always have to be concluded. Indeed, the only measure provided for in the draft law is to facilitate the adjustment of the labour regulations when such a collective agreement is concluded. Apart from that, the text does not change what is possible today in terms of e-commerce. So we didn't decide to allow night work after midnight in e-commerce. We also did not allow work to take place between 8 p.m. and midnight without a collective labour agreement. Furthermore, it is important to stress that we also do not affect existing collective labour agreements concerning, for example, terminations during evening or night work. Time-limited pilot experiments will be possible, but they will also be supervised to ensure that the worker's will is respected. For example, a worker who refuses to participate in the experiment will be protected from dismissal. Finally, regarding platform work, we will put a presumption of salaried worker if certain criteria are met. The aim is to better protect workers working in the platform economy. This does not, of course, mean that platforms will always have to obtain permission to employ a self-employed person or a subcontractor; this means that it will no longer be up to the worker to prove a contract of employment but rather to the employer to demonstrate the absence of the latter and the absence of a link of subordination. In addition, it is envisaged that courts and tribunals will have to take account of algorithmic management and the fact that the effective exercise of the employment relationship will take precedence over the determination of social status. With regard to the Working Relations Committee, in consultation with the Committee and the social partners, we will analyse its operation, procedures and role in order to optimise them. With regard to the extension of the Workers' Accidents Act, I confirm that it will be extended to all payment platforms. On the other hand, this will not concern platforms that are limited to connecting citizens – it would be unrealistic today. For example, if someone posts an advertisement on their social profile indicating to their contacts that they are looking for an electrician and that an electrician is proposing to do so, is it up to the social network to take out occupational accident insurance in this context? Asking the question is answering it. Finally, with regard to your question on the cooperative economy regime, I invite you to ask my colleague the Minister of Finance, who is responsible for this. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the answers I could give you today. I hope I've been complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u22	Mr Minister, I would like to thank you for your answer, but I cannot do so, because, despite your repetition of the long press conference on the employment deal, you have not answered the one question I asked you, namely whether there is an agreement in the federal government to complete the employment deal proposed in February. That worries me, because we are now left with a work deal without any activating action. Some measures do have an impact on work organisation. Some other measures, if they are already activating, e.g. the activating right of dismissal, remain particularly non-binding. As I said in my question, our concern is to create as much prosperity and well-being as possible. A good job with a good wage is a necessary condition for achieving that goal. The work deal, as you have proposed again today, is not really full of activating material, quite the contrary. You started your answer by comparing figures at two times before you had a work deal, as regards the evolution of the level of effectiveness. In other words, that comparison has nothing to do with the subject of today's actua debate. If the level of activity has been increasing since the federal government took office, it's not because of, but despite the federal government. You have not yet taken one activating measure. The best thing that can happen to our labour market is perhaps, although it sounds very cynical, that you do nothing about the labour market. Now you're not taking any activating action. You are proposing measures that sound good in the ears of some, but which will make it much more difficult for the organisation in the workplace. You also touch the freedom of many employees in a work organisation in their search for a balance between professional life and private life. Who actually gets better from the labor deal? The answer to that question is very difficult, because I really don't see it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u23	For us, Minister, it is an important objective to create quality jobs. You yourself mentioned the increase in the minimum wage from 1 April. This increase, the first time in fifteen years, is an important step forward. In addition, there are a number of fiscal measures, which increase net incomes, both low wages and middle incomes. Mr Anseuw, you said that the measure allows less flexibility, but it is a response to the needs of families today. I have already said that as a former trade union representative in the last five years, I have had nothing but questions about how one can adjust one's working hours to co-parenting. The deal contains a number of measures that respond. Of course, it should not be a retrograde step for workers. In this sense, I look forward to an overview of the administration, so that we can examine the side effects of the four-day working week, for example for the annual holiday. If they work for four days, they have only four days of vacation, but I would like to see the full impact of this. For example, the holiday allowance is a percentage of the salary, but what about the departure fee? I think that sometimes it's a little more complicated than it seems at first sight. That needs to be properly checked. With regard to e-commerce, it is very important that the existing agreements remain in force. Furthermore, the framework of structural teleworking is also important so that workers no longer pay the bill themselves. Today, March 8th, is International Women's Day. Yesterday we had a study day on pension and gender. According to the Federal Planning Office, it is not possible to solve everything that goes wrong during the career with the pension. Women have equal rights and therefore, in our view, should be able to combine high-quality, well-paid jobs during their career. I shall come back to the situation of cleaning aid with their families and other care tasks, as they have often taken up during the corona crisis. We also want a fair wage and a safe workplace for them. I have already asked you more questions about the latter, so I am very much looking forward to the speedy ratification of ILO Convention No. 190.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have three comments to make. Firstly, in the Committee on the Budget, everyone agrees that the energy package and the government's support measures are inadequate in view of the changed situation and that a second package is needed. However, additional aid also means additional expenditure. This should be accompanied by the same analysis on the revenue side. You now have a job deal that clearly is not enough and you are facing additional expenditure. A second work deal is needed, complemented by the activating measures that Mr Anseeeuw has just listed, as well as by asymmetric policies. Secondly, as regards asymmetric policy, you refer to the inter-federal platform of 15 March and 15 April, which will make a number of proposals, many of which will be regulated by a royal decision. You also declare your willingness to examine any legislative changes that may prove necessary. That is not what Minister Verlinden told me and what I have heard from Mr Verherstraeten. They say that there is an agreement in the government to integrate the asymmetric policy, i.e. the conclusions of the inter-federal platform, into the same bill containing various provisions and not to consider another project or other option. So you say something different than your fellow minister unless you reply, which I would like to hear. If you confirm to me that at second reading, the conclusions of the inter-federal platform will be integrated into the same draft law if those legislative changes are needed, then you will say the same as your colleague. However, I have not heard that so far. Thirdly, I am talking about speaking time, but this is important. I have made the point with your colleague, Mr Dermine, and I would like to do the same to you. I really think a good news show is out of place. You have already communicated a number of times that the government is doing well, that 60,000 jobs have been created and that unemployment has fallen by 1.1 %. If that is the message, you say at least implicitly that we will automatically get the 80 % activity rate. But what are the facts? To get a picture of the future, it's always good to look at the past. Over the past 20 years, 25,000 jobs have been created in Flanders per year. To reach 80% in Flanders, Flanders will have to create 15,000 jobs a year. For the next six years, we must create fewer jobs than we have done in the last 20 years to get the 80%. Wallonia has created 10,000 jobs over the last 20 years, half of Flanders, but also, of course, a population half the size of Flanders. To get that 80%, Wallonia has to create about 30,000 jobs a year. Wallonia will therefore have to do 3 times better than it has done in the last 20 years. That region will have to create 30,000 jobs per year on a population of 3.5 million, while Flanders will have to create 15,000 jobs per year on a population of 6.5 million. The Flemish population is twice as big, but the job challenge is twice as small. Brussels, where 6,000 jobs per year have been created over the last 20 years, will have to create 17,000 on a population of 1 million inhabitants. That's huge. In the Finance Committee just before the crocus holiday, I built up the same reasoning with Governor Wunsch. His conclusion is that, with what's on the table here, we'll never make it to 80 percent. Minister, no labour market expert believes your implicit tone is that we are doing well and have already created 60,000 jobs, as if we are going to get there automatically. The governor of the National Bank doesn't believe it, and we certainly don't believe it. Stop it. The situation is very urgent in each state of the country, in Flanders and, if possible, much more in the other Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for an overview of the flexible measures relating to the labour market. We welcome them. However, I have heard little about labour mobility. If we want to get more people working and keep more people going, we need to work towards a better framework of labour mobility between the regions. We must remove the thresholds and strive for better inter-regional cooperation, which must be targeted at objectives and results. That is nothing new, by the way. During the previous period of government, emphasis was placed to strengthen cooperation and mobility and, for example, to lead residents of Wallonia to the Flemish labour market. We must continue to work on this, not just by exchanging vacancies, but, for example, by actively focusing on job applications and continuing the efforts on training. Asymmetric policies and measures between the regions are essential in the labour shortages we are currently facing. It is an objective of the regions to strengthen labour mobility, but it is important for the federal government to monitor the process.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answers. As far as platform workers and accidents at work are concerned, you say that this will only apply to all order-giving platforms. However, in the work of the collaborative economy, there are self-employed workers and others are not. According to our interpretation, you intend to put in place a safety against accidents at work for those who are self-employed but not for others. If that were the case, it would mean that only 10 to 20 per cent of workers were covered, while the other 80 per cent would not be covered. We have therefore visited your website dermagne.belgium on which you clearly announce that all workers active in the platform economy will be better protected in the event of an accident at work and that the law on industrial accidents will be extended to these workers. It seems to us that you do not intend to apply it to all. You yourself say that we know that a courier working in the platform economy is 15 times more likely to be in an accident at work. You don't seem to be in line with your statements at the time. As regards the clarification of the status and the presumption of wage earners, you are talking about an application according to certain criteria. In our view, despite the new criteria, this will be a status quo because we will not oblige the platform itself to request an exemption for these statutes. The logic will not be reversed. It will still be the worker who will have to prove his status. You can imagine how lengthy the proceedings are and that, on the other hand, these workers have more to do than run to court. We believe that you need to improve your copy to move you towards a true rebuttable presumption of wage-earnership, in order to protect the worker really. For us, that is not the case. If this is not the case, your agreement is a blow in the water or even a step backwards from what you promised. As far as the employment agreement is concerned, in our view, there is a contradiction between your words and the reality on the ground. I will take a few examples. For us, improving the reconciliation between private and professional life is not going to be possible with your work flexibilisation agreement. We've already said it, but it's worth repeating. It is not by understanding the hours of work that we will be able to ensure that men and women have time to care for their families. We put forward moms and dads who live alone with this proposal to make alternate weeks. This is not the majority of people at first, but it will also be necessary for me to be explained how, by working ten hours a day without counting the journeys, one can more easily pick up his children at school. It's paradoxical. And we forget that there are about half a million long-term patients in our country. Not all studies are yet in progress in this area, but ultraflexibility is not going to help reduce the number of patients. Another example: you say that these agreements will not prohibit the social partners from discussing a collective reduction in working time. But in our view, what you will put in place will create a certain form of competition on the ground, which will make it more difficult for trade unions to conduct these discussions, especially since with these agreements, you will more individualise labour relations by effectively excluding the role of the social partners, even if at the end of the chain you still intend to ask them for their opinion. For us, individualizing the employment relationship in a period of crisis is not going to help improve social dialogue. Besides, we're not the only ones to say it. The unions are very strict on your agreement. I will give two quotes here, one from the FGTB, another from the CSC. The FGTB says, "If Vivaldi wants to show that it places more emphasis on bosses than on employees, it's done." And a CSC official said, "We are dismayed to see how much the government is echoing the demands of employers." I make the link between this and the problem of wage freezes, which also does not help. I also make the more specific link with women's rights. You say, in theory, and rightly so, that the issue of women's rights is not just a matter for you as a minister and not for us as a social affairs committee. Indeed, and we have for the first time a Secretary of State who will deal specifically with these problems. We have already said that we stress it positively. But you don't have to hide behind this so you don't see a series of very concrete demands that are part of your skills, and that you don't see coming. I will mention a few of them, particularly on this international day of struggle for women's rights: the question of raising minimum wages to EUR 14 per hour is not a cross-cutting competence, nor the question of wage blockade, which I have already mentioned, and for the removal of which there are really trade union demands. There is also a petition that has been launched, already signed by more than 80,000 people, to blow up this lock that prevents social consultation. Increasing the remuneration of time credits would really be necessary. In our view, the way you see the fact that women will be able to work alternately for a week of 30 hours and a week of 45 hours is not the right formula. Time credit could be a better one but, of course, pay must be increased, otherwise small wages and lower-income households will not be able to afford this kind of leave. You have alluded to the increase in paternity leave, which is highlighted positively. It's really going in the right direction. But you know that inequality in household tasks is such that we will have to go much further than that - but that is a positive point. We encourage you to go further. More needs to be done to reduce working time collectively to 30 hours. This is anything other than flexibility between 30 hours a week and 45 hours the other week. It is another flexibility to grant and legislate on 10 a.m. day. I would also like to highlight two things that do not concern you in particular but are still part of this package. This is the question of pensions, especially those of women, whose amount will really have to be increased and to think about better assimilation, especially for women, not to mention, of course, the length of the career which, for many women, is much more limited than for men. Of course, I will not forget the issue of violence against women, even if it does not concern you directly. We will see later on the questions that I did not put orally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u27	Mr Verreyt, I am replacing the President who is sorry. I took up this task because you were absent at the beginning of the sitting. I hope to continue this task if you have no problem with it. Do you still want to replicate?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u28	First of all, I apologize for my late presence. That is why I do not reply, because I do not think it is right for people to interfere in the debate when they are late. Tomorrow, however, Mr Anseeeuw will be Vice-President, I am not the first Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u29	It's taken care of.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u30	Madam President, I have one more question. The Minister nodded when the question was asked whether the draft law would be supplemented by the measures of the inter-federal platform. If it is possible, I would like to give the Minister a chance to give a clearer answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u31	That is indeed a possibility, Mr Loones. Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u32	I saw that the Minister also made a start to say what it would then be about. My questions were about that, too. In his detailed reply, this has fallen between the meshes of the network. I thought the Minister would regroup and now tell us exactly what there is a political agreement and what elements can be added to the employment deal in the same bill. I'd say go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u33	That is for the next meeting, Mr Anseuw.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u34	You have now received a yes to your question. You cannot want everything, Mr Anseuw. You can't want butter and butter money.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u35	Madam President, I am actually expecting an answer, because my question was tabled weeks ago. I listened to the answer for half an hour, but there was no answer to my question. Then I think I don't want too much if I invite the Minister to answer my question anyway. I also think it's special that he says he wants to answer my question, but not yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u36	The minister said he will give the answer at the next meeting. There's a meeting tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u37	I'd like to close the actua debate here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u38	Madam President, I'm a little embarrassed. Indeed, while I was speaking about platform workers and workplace accidents that were going to concern only the self-employed, I saw the minister who was dodelinating head to say no. Could you enlighten me on this, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u39	Mrs Moscufo, I confirm that it is all workers – employees, self-employed or occasional workers in the platform economy – who will have to be covered against accidents at work by the said platforms. I am referring, of course, to those who give orders, and not to those who make contacts between citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u40	We therefore note that all workers will be able to access...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u41	Devront.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u42	I'll have to. All right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u43	My next question was on the 1996 Act and the pay margin for 2023 and 2024. I have already touched on a point earlier, but I now have a question about the report of the Central Economic Council and the employers' statements on a 0 per cent margin for 2023-2024. We asked you about this in the plenary session on 11 February, and you replied that you were going to ask the National Bank of Belgium to carry out further research on the increase in profit margins for companies and the setting of prices for goods and services, before concluding that in any event it was too early to give a definitive opinion on the wage margin expected for 2023-2024. Our questions are as follows: What about the research of the National Bank of Belgium? Is it now time to comment on this famous margin? What are you going to do to allow for real wage increases? Will you respond positively to the demands of trade union organisations to break the wage freeze resulting from this 1996 law? In view of the profit margins of all large companies, what are you going to do to ensure that these margins are finally used to raise the gross wages of workers and not to fill the pockets of shareholders?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u44	Mrs Moscufo, I have indeed instructed the National Bank of Belgium to collect a series of information on profit margins for companies. Research or work by the National Bank of Belgium is still ongoing. So you will allow me to wait for the results of this analysis before I can take a position. In addition, I am working to create more links between the National Bank of Belgium, the Price Observatory and the Belgian Competition Authority. It is indeed important that the Commission's surveys and the regulations drafted by the SPF Economy are, even more so than today, supported by solid data. The aim is, of course, to increase consumer purchasing power by reducing product prices and profit margins for businesses when they are excessive. I now turn to the calculation of the wage margin. As you know, the law provides for the drafting of a report by the Central Economic Council for the 15th of December in even years. For the years 2023 and 2024, this report is therefore not, logically, yet available. It is therefore still too early for the social partners to be able to decide on any wage margin. This is all the more the case in the uncertain situation we are experiencing today. The wage margin is determined taking into account, inter alia, the wage and employment measures taken by the three neighbouring countries and Belgium. However, with the health crisis that we have been experiencing for two years and, more recently, with Russia's war against Ukraine, we do not yet have all the evidence to measure a possible wage gap between Belgium and its three neighbours. Belgium has, as you know, taken many measures to support companies and workers, like other countries, and the report of the Central Economic Council will have to be based on updated figures on the impact of these measures on wages in the four countries. It should also be borne in mind that Belgium, unlike its neighbours, has an automatic wage indexation system which partially preserves the purchasing power of workers in the event of rising prices of the main consumer products. This mechanism is obviously even more fundamental in these high and galloping times of inflation in order to prevent workers from getting poorer on a daily basis. As I have already indicated, in order to strike a balance between competitiveness and purchasing power, the government will favour the use of circulars in consultation with the social partners. In the coming months, I will therefore organise consultations with the said social partners and the Central Economic Council in order to analyse the various possible options. I also look forward to the debates in this Parliament and this committee following the petition by the trade union organisations, which has received enough signatures to open up space and give time for debate in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, last year the opportunity to prepare the interprofessional agreement was discussed. You know as well as I do that the trade union organisations have been clear about this. It will therefore be out of the question of sitting around the table again during a future interprofessional agreement if there is a wage margin of 0.4%. You know that for signing the royal decree yourself, I would like to remind you that you and your president had said that they were prepared to block the dividends of large companies if the bosses did not make any effort. I remind you that was your intention. That's a good thing. If you do, we will support you in this matter. Here, it is important to remember that we also live in a country, which is the 26th richest country in the world. I don't have to give you again the numbers of the big boxes that make billions and billions of profits. There's really money for that. I regret your explanation of wage indexation. I thought it was rather the right one that advocated this kind of argument to deny the need to have a margin to negotiate in addition to indexing. But I see that you are taking this argument back, and I regret it. It is clear that this wage margin will not be accepted, and I encourage you, as you have just said, to rely on it, if your intention is to go further, on those 80,000 signatures that exist today and to ensure that this redistribution of wealth really becomes a reality in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u46	Minister, Belgium was blamed by the European Social Rights Committee (ESRB) for offering too many unpaid traineeships outside the framework of training. According to the Committee, this goes against the European Social Charter. In Belgium, only 18% of the traineeships are paid. This makes us the worst student of the European class. The European Youth Forum has lodged a collective complaint against this. They believe that there are too many unpaid internships after training, whereas such internships are, in their opinion, a form of work for which young people should receive pay and recognition. The ESRB has followed that reasoning and considers that something needs to be done about the Belgian situation. The decision of the ESRB may not be binding, but something must be done about it. Moreover, there is insufficient monitoring of the quality of traineeships and the oversupply of unpaid traineeships leads to inequality and discrimination. Minister, have you taken note of the decision taken by the ESRB? Could you give me a little more explanation? What exactly does the blame mean? The European Youth Forum proposes a general ban on unpaid traineeships, especially when training is completed. In this way, young people can earn wages more quickly and build up social rights. What do you think of that? What measures do you propose to address the ESRB's responsibilities?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u47	Madam President, Minister, in a recent opinion, the Council of Europe has opposed these unpaid internships in Belgium following the complaint of the European Youth Forum. These arrangements would in fact violate articles of the European Social Charter, particularly with regard to the right to fair remuneration. You said in the press that "unpaid internships are a form of unfair competition, abuse of young workers and a way to strengthen inequalities in our labour market". And you were right. You added that every effort should be made to remedy the problem. Minister, what are you doing to make it mandatory for an intern to receive remuneration? What is your commitment and what is its timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have of course taken note of the decision of the European Committee on Social Rights published on 16 February last concerning unpaid internships in Belgium, following a complaint from the European Youth Forum. On the one hand, the Committee found a violation of Article 4(1) of the European Social Charter on the grounds that the Labour Inspectorate is not sufficiently effective in detecting and preventing false traineeships. The decision therefore does not concern genuine internships, the main objective of which is to gain professional experience and improve practical skills, but rather disguised work, involving the performance of a real job under the authority and for the benefit of an employer. In order to prevent young trainees from being exploited as unpaid labour, the Committee considers that national authorities are obliged to assess the risks associated with the traineeship agreements and to take concrete measures to ensure their effectiveness. An inspection system based solely on individual complaints from trainees, without other proactive measures taking into account the vulnerability of the target group, cannot be considered effective in this particular situation. On the other hand, the Committee decided that there was an infringement of Article E, read together with Article 4 (1) of the Charter. The Committee considers that the inadequate effectiveness of the labour inspection will inevitably have discriminatory effects on bogus trainees. This category of workers is not, in practice, entitled to fair remuneration. However, that right is guaranteed to other workers who perform similar tasks under a regular contract of employment. It is important to note that the Committee finds that no specific evidence has been provided that traineeships in Belgium are used as unpaid work to replace regular work. However, in the context of the assessment based on international standards, the Committee indicates that such a risk of abuse exists in practice. I am currently discussing with the inspection services how to follow up on this decision of the European Committee on Social Rights. Increased cooperation between federal and regional inspections is already one of the measures envisaged. In addition, we are discussing with my colleague responsible for public service issues how to completely eliminate these practices in federal governments and institutions under the authority of federal ministers. Contacts are also made with regional labour ministers to ensure that regional employment services do not provide a platform for such disguised employment. In addition, the social partners will be contacted and the best way to raise awareness of this case law among the various international and European institutions will also be explored.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is true that this is a sort of bogus trainee rather than an internship during a training course. It is a sham stage that is offered after a training course. Control is important and there must therefore be more cooperation between the inspection services, but we also need to see how we can set an example ourselves. This is something for the regional administrations, but the international and European institutions themselves must set an example. I would still like to opt for more collective measures. After all, this is pretty much the same as day contracts, fakes and bogus self-employed people. For example, it is particularly difficult for young people to start their lives and build something. This is all part of a race to the bottom I'd rather see finished. In this sense, I am, of course, looking forward to the measures being framed and to be followed. In the long term, I will have to come back to this. This is not an opportunity for young people, it is rather exploitation. That only leads to a race to the bottom.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u50	Minister, thank you. We're joining you on this problem of real internships and fake internships. I have two comments on this subject. First of all, from what we know about practice, the limit between a true and a false internship is sometimes thin. So it doesn't help. Then we hear that we have to see how we can point out what these famous false internships are. We want to encourage you to work in partnership with trade union organizations. I imagine that in some corporate councils, some useful information can go back. We are not going to explain to you again that these situations are very harmful to disadvantaged young people. They're on an internship, they're not paid. They need money and for some, it does not encourage them to continue school, but to get out of school faster to go to work. We will therefore continue to follow your work in this area and return to you if we have constructive proposals to make to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u51	Mr Minister, first of all on form, I understand that you intend to establish a consultation with your counterparts in the federated entities. This is obviously an excellent thing, but I can only encourage you to also consult with the first concerned organizations representing young people, students and university faculties. It's just as important. On the substance, I mean that apart from the Council of Europe, there would be no evidence in Belgium to say that internships are used to replace regular work with unpaid work. Yet, on the ground, it is clear that these abuses exist. I think it would be an excellent thing to objectify the situation in particular at national level and on this basis, then to have a real global reflection on the situation which is therefore not confined to the pay side, although it is obviously indispensable but which would also aim at the quality of training, well-being at work, etc. In France, employers in the private, public or voluntary sector are subject to regulations for the reception of trainees. In other words, it would not be within the framework that you are targeting today, in any case, that is what I understood, namely to eliminate this practice in federal institutions only. In France, the framework is much more comprehensive and concerns the compulsory remuneration but also the conditions of appeal, the maximum duration of the traineeship, the signing of an agreement, the maximum number of traineeships in progress or the period between two traineeships. In France, we see that the trainee is not considered an employee, but he or she, like him, must also respect the rules of his or her host institution in terms of hours, legal working hours, etc. This is a lead that it would be interesting to evaluate to see if we can eventually translate it into our home. It's an idea I'm throwing at you. You do what you want but it goes without saying that we will question you again to see what option you will retain.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u52	Madam President, Minister, a survey of the external prevention service Liantis shows that there was a marked increase in the number of bullying cases at work in 2021. One employee out of seven indicated he was the victim of this. It is striking that there is a big difference between men and women, 18% compared to 11.3 %. These are disturbing figures, which often also give rise to absenteeism. The absenteeism in the workplace is rising. Have your services been able to determine this evolution? How many complaints were received in 2021? What plans are you planning to make to know this evolution?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u53	Madam President, Mr Verreyt, there has been a clear decline in the number of complaints about violence, harassment and unwanted sexual behaviour at work over the last five years. I will forward to you the tables of the number of complaints for violence, harassment and unwanted sexual behaviour at work received by the General Department of Welfare Supervision at Work. Only when internal procedures are not correctly applied or have no effect can the inspection and complaint be made. Together with my administrations and fellow ministers, I am fully committed to mental well-being at work. For example, a federal plan for mental well-being at work is being implemented, in cooperation with the other relevant ministers, the social partners, the Länder and various actors in the field of mental health and working conditions. As part of this plan, the media campaign launched in November 2021 will continue this year. In addition, sectoral prevention projects will receive grants in 2022 and 2023. The projects aim to develop specialised expertise in psychosocial risks, by paying more attention to specific work-related risks in various sectors affected by the pandemic. Health and care workers have given themselves the best in recent years. However, they are increasingly suffering from stress and poor mental well-being. I therefore support any sectoral agreement to reduce the workload. In the actions relating to psychosocial risks, specific attention will be paid to this group. In addition, my administration closely follows how the legislation on psychosocial risks introduced in 2014 is applied in practice. I also asked the TWW inspection to analyse the field experience on the implementation of legislation on the prevention of psychosocial risks in companies. This analysis will be used as an approach to examine, together with the social partners, how to change the rules of 2014 in order to make them even more performative.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for the promise that you will provide us with the tables of your services. However, your services are only discussed when the calf has already drowned, when it is too late. So I am pleased to hear that you are more and more committed to the part that belongs to prevention rather than to cure. Preventing it is still better than resolving it afterwards. Of course, we have two special years, 2020 and 2021, where the conditions for employees have not always been the same as in other years, with a lot of additional stress in certain sectors, which probably also affected employees' behaviour. We need to look at developments since 2019 and hopefully 2022 and 2023, which are the real years with which one can compare.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u55	Minister, the case of parcel services has already been discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs. This question concerns the minimum level of self-employment for parcel companies, because there are quite a few abuses in the subcontractors of parcel companies, which have already been asked several questions. Numerous aspects of labour law are hardly taken into account, resulting, among other things, in a high level of undeclared work, illegal employment, payouts below the minimum wage and inadequate working conditions. In February, your colleague, Mrs De Sutter, in charge of State-owned companies, proposed that all packaging companies should have at least 80% of the packages delivered as an employed person by 2025. Minister, what is your position on this proposal, since it is partly within your competence? Secondly, is it possible, from the point of view of employment law, to impose such a provision at all? Is it de facto possible to introduce a partial ban on subcontracting? Thirdly, is the introduction of a chain responsibility, as in the Netherlands, a proposal that is often discussed, perhaps better?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u56	Mr Verreyt, I support Minister De Sutter's plan to oblige all packing companies to have at least 80% of the packages delivered by paid workers by 2025. This measure imposes the use of workers, i.e. the application of labour law, on parcel services. The application of labour law is the best protection against precarious working conditions. I do not see any objection to labour law, as that measure is just intended for the application of labour law by the compulsory use of persons with an employee's status. Further explanation of the measure itself can be provided by my excellent colleague, the Minister of Civil Service and Public Enterprises. I would also like to point out that there is already a form of chain responsibility in Belgium. For example, there is a system of joint and several liability for wage debts where a subcontractor does not pay its employees correctly or employs persons from third countries who are staying illegally. In such situations, the client and all contractors in the chain can be called upon to pay the wages debt. That scheme is included in the Wage Protection Act of 12 April 1965.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u57	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. I know it is easy to refer to the other minister and it is of course her proposal, she has communicated it through the media. However, it is also a responsibility of yours in the first place. I understand that a person with an employee status is better protected than a self-employed person. This, of course, has an impact on the benefits and the burdens. In this sector, however, the pendulum has at present gone too far towards its use and, above all, the abuse of the self-employed status in subcontracting. However, making it completely or almost completely impossible to use it may be too far-reaching. On the other hand, there is chain responsibility. You pointed out that certain things are already possible, including in Belgium. However, this is not the chain responsibility known, for example, in the Netherlands, where guarantees have to be laid down and where certain parts of the invoice may not be paid to the self-employed. They have to be paid to a special cashier. That is a different and far more far-reaching form of chain responsibility than what you just explained in your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u58	Mrs Cornet has informed us that she will convert questions Nos 55025557C and 55025565C into written questions. As a result, we are in need of the last series of questions this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u59	Minister, there are a series of actions in the housekeeping sector. In fact, they have also taken action in a number of places today to improve working conditions. However, on 22 February there was a special action in Ghent for the doors of the cleaning aid company Domestic Services. For January, that company had decided to convert the guaranteed wage of all employees who were absent due to illness into temporary unemployment due to corona. The unions then indicated that there was an investigation by the Social Inspectorate or the RVA into the improper use of temporary unemployment. If people submit a sick note, they are not covered by temporary unemployment because of corona. For the umpteenth time, the major players in the cleaning aid companies sector are turning their financial responsibility for workers who are absent due to illness into society. However, Domestic Services, which makes improper use of temporary unemployment, paid EUR 11 million to its shareholders last year. Can you confirm that the RVA or the Social Inspectorate is conducting an investigation into the improper use of temporary unemployment at Domestic Services? Were there any signs of abuse? If so, can you explain this further? On 8 July 2020, therefore, the Flemish Parliament unanimously adopted a resolution calling for better wage and working conditions for cleaning aid. Meanwhile, cleaning aid has become a bottleneck profession. Much depends on regional subsidies and recognitions, but if there is to be an asymmetric labour market policy and consultation with the regions, will the working conditions of poetry aid, which is somewhat linked to regional subsidy and recognition policies, be put forward by the federal government in order to ensure that these people can work in better conditions? Can you give a final update of the sectoral wage negotiations on cleaning aid? Has there been any progress there?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u60	Minister, the situation is quite challenging in this area. It is also up to us that, in the domestic services company, domestic helpers are unemployed when they are ill or when a customer cancels and no replacement is possible. However, the legislation provides for the maintenance of income. There would be open files in various companies, but it turns out that in the case of this company, these illegal practices persist on the ground. This leads to income losses for these workers, who are already struggling to get a wage above the poverty line. The 78 offices of Domestic Services have thus again converted the guaranteed January wages from temporary unemployed domestic workers. Minister, what can we do in practice to combat these practices? In this specific case, are there files already open to the inspection service? What sanctions can you put in place? How will you remedy these situations in these companies? Secondly, and not least on this 8th March, we learn that in this sector there is also a lot of intimidation, threats and sexual harassment, so much so that, according to our feedback, in certain companies, such as the one I have just mentioned, it would be an integral part of the corporate culture. According to some reports, there is a real sense of impunity among entrepreneurs and managers. How can we fight to put an end to this? Finally, another common practice is to transform, without the agreement of the worker, cancellations of clients into authorized absences, i.e. a kind of leave without pay which must in principle be the subject of a written agreement between the two parties. There are obviously negative consequences for the maintenance of wages. These days of work are therefore not recognized as such. In principle, these authorised absences must be reported in the DmfA declaration under code 30. Do we have figures for these authorized absences in service titles? Could we compare them to the average of other sectors?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u61	The RVA confirms that there is currently an investigation at Domestic Services concerning the improper use of temporary unemployment. Since the investigation is still ongoing, I can't report any results. Of course, any possible abuse must be dealt with. The worker who is able to work but who cannot start or continue his work because of a situation of force majeure, other than a strike, is entitled to his normal wage for the hours lost. The practice of using permitted absence without the employee's consent for part-time benefits which have not been carried out at the customer's request and to get rid of the employer's obligation to pay is detected by the inspection services in the analysis of the social documents. The inspection is strict and accepts permitted absence only if it is sufficiently proven that it is indeed at the employee's own request. I can tell you that there has been or has not been an investigation of the RSZ inspection at this employer. You will understand that, in such a short period of time, it was impossible for me to be able to provide you with the figures you are asking for. However, it is important to note that any statistics do not say everything. Code 30 in the DmfA is a residual category. It brings together every day on which the staff have not worked and for which the employer has not paid any remuneration and which cannot be covered by social security. This will therefore require some additional elements, but I have no doubt that you will ask me again in the next few days. Negotiations on a new sectoral agreement in the service cheque sector have not yet led to an agreement. The main point of discussion is the reimbursement of transport costs. At present, both sides hold on to their respective positions, leaving little room for real dialogue. The Chair of the Joint Committee shall continue to closely monitor the situation. As you know, the issue of the service cheque sector has been regionalised. The federal level still has only limited powers, but I naturally support the regions from my powers wherever possible, for example when it comes to bottlenecks in the labour market. We have talked about it before, but good wages and working conditions are very important to attract workers. I assume that the subsidising authorities and the social partners will also take this into account. On the other hand, I will continue to try to improve the situation of workers on the basis of my own skills. Last year, for example, early-career salaries were abolished in the sector and our inspection services are involved in cases of abuse. We are firmly committed to improving the well-being and safety of workers in general but also specifically in this sector. In the very near future, a campaign will be launched for this sector by the Occupational Well-being Control. The monitoring of occupational risks provided for in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan can also play an important role in taking targeted action in the next phase. With regard to violence and moral and sexual harassment at work, the workers in question may apply to the Monitoring of Well-Being at Work if internal procedures do not enable them to assert their rights. I would like to express my support for the social partners' campaign "all respectful.be". For the time being, there is also a call for projects and sectors will be able to introduce projects on prevention of mental well-being at work. I therefore call on the sector to introduce a project in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u62	The situation of cleaning aid has been particularly precarious for years. Everyone indeed has their own powers. Federal is responsible for the federal part, and regional for the regional part. Still, I see a link there. Especially the big players really walk away. Regional subsidies during corona have been given for protective equipment and working conditions. A suit of those big players turned out to just send those subsidies to their own shareholders and put them in their own pockets. The federal level then imposed, among other things, that obligation of the mouth mask duty, a new mouth mask and alcohol gel every four hours. The big players need to be forced and pressured every time to simply comply with basic rules. That's a piece of mopping with the tap open. That is why I asked for this to be included in the consultation and to cooperate more on it so that it is not always necessary to check, but also to use the withdrawal of subsidies and recognition as a means of forcing the big players to simply comply with the rules, as it should be. This is important because cleaning aid is essential. It's also been shown during corona. It is a bottleneck profession, but they assist other families so that more people can go to the labour market. In this sense, cleaning aid contributes not only to the care of other families and society, but also to the level of employment. In this sense, they deserve more appreciation than they currently receive from their employers. They must impose an obligation to go to work and the relocation fees will not be reimbursed with high energy prices either. That is absolutely outrageous.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic714x.u63	Minister, thank you. If the investigation is under way, that's it! I will repeat what we already know: they are entirely subsidised companies. The goal is not to see big companies take advantage of the public money to make scumbags and intimidate their staff. We need to speed up the investigation procedure. I think you need to review the commitments you made with regard to inspections. This afternoon alone, in two areas, we all found that more inspections were needed. With respect to code 30, I hear your explanation and we know what it is. That would still give some indication. I will come back with a written question on this. In principle, when women workers are placed in an authorized absence, this can be done at the request of the person himself. But it is possible that, in an atmosphere of intimidation, a letter will be signed by the worker without knowing very well what really happened. We agree with you that there is a blockage on the ongoing negotiations and the demand of trade union organisations to increase the cost of transport. But we still want to stress negatively that this famous 0,4 % margin has not helped all these negotiations. Indeed, I do understand the workers and organizations in the sector, even though they are more concerned about the cost of transportation. Indeed, at the level of the increase in purchasing power, we will look more at this aspect than at the 0.4% which might make employers think "that they grant it well". Rather, it is peanuts for these wages that fall below the poverty line. As far as the concrete situation in this company is concerned, we will come back to you to follow the situation, especially on the question of this famous corporate culture which we believe is much wider than a corporate culture. Rather, it is the culture of the capitalist and patriarchal society in which we live. Domestic helpers are the first victims.
