ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u1	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, in a debate with Minister Vandenbroucke on this subject two weeks ago, we reminded him that at the end of March the Brussels Labour Court established that the system of reimbursement of vaccination against papillomavirus (HPV) constitutes a violation of the gender law and the anti-discrimination law. This decision follows the legal action of a boy who, with the support of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men (IEFH), has denounced the fact that he is not entitled to reimbursement of his HPV vaccines, unlike girls of his age. Several types of HPV can lead to cancers, including the cervix, but also the mouth, throat, penis or anus. Some 75 per cent of HPV-related cancers are reported in women, but 25 per cent are reported in men. For these reasons, the Higher Board of Health concluded that it was highly recommended to vaccinate girls and boys between 9 and 14 years of age. In addition, it recommends that women and men between the ages of 15 and 26 be vaccinated on an individual basis. However, access to vaccination is not the same for girls and boys. Since the 2019-2020 school year, a school vaccination programme has been available to vaccinate girls and boys free of charge. People who have not been able to benefit from this program can buy the vaccine themselves at the pharmacy. In this case, INAMI reimburses the vaccine for girls under certain conditions, but not for boys. For example: a boy who buys Gardasil 9® in a pharmacy pays €134.84 per vaccine, while a girl in the same situation pays only €12.10 or €8.00 thanks to the reimbursement of the INAMI. Since several vaccinations are required to be fully protected, the cost without reimbursement can be as high as €406.5. Following the court's decision recognizing a direct offence based on sex, as well as intersectional discrimination based on sex, specifically for the group of homosexual men, and on the basis of the IEFH's recommendations, are you considering making the repayment conditions gender neutral? The Minister of Health said he was working on it with the hope of reaching a conclusion for the month of September. This answer is still quite open and not sufficiently concrete. Are you considering exploring the possibility of catching up vaccination for men who have not had the opportunity to be vaccinated before?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u2	Thank you for your question, Madame de Laveleye. I am also convinced of the benefits of widespread HPV vaccination and catch-up vaccination for those who have not had the opportunity to be vaccinated under the current provisions. I agree with the opinion 9181 that the Higher Council of Health published on this subject in 2017 already. In men, 25% of cancers are caused by HPV. There is no simple method of detection for these cancers as is the case for cervical cancer. Homosexual boys do not benefit at all from the group immunity permitted by the vaccination of girls. In addition, the number of throat cancers caused by HPV has increased in recent years. I am in favour of abolishing discrimination in the conditions for reimbursement of the HPV vaccine, which was also condemned by the Brussels Labour Court. It is unbearable for me to think that boys or men can face a serious disease when a vaccine could have prevented it. With regard to the conditions for reimbursement of the drug, these are the responsibility of the Minister of Health, who has already replied to you on this subject. In view of the importance I attach to this dossier, I will certainly cooperate with my colleague on this issue, particularly when the opinion of the Committee on Medicinal Products has been received. The impact of this decision on the health of boys and men is important in terms of prevention and as Secretary of State for Gender Equality, I insist that they obtain the same rights as girls and women.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u3	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I just want to raise a small point. The Minister of Health has announced progress for the month of September, but, as I said in the introduction, it is not yet very clear. I think we can have the assurance that our government as a whole wants to move forward on this issue. As I was able to tell the Minister of Health, it seems to me that the vaccination of men is absolutely necessary for themselves and in terms of equality between women and men. I was already disturbed at the time when it was thought that cancers were mainly affecting women and that they alone had to protect themselves, while they mostly caught the virus by a male partner. I think that, even with a view to maximum coverage for women, it is also very interesting to vaccinate men as well. This is beneficial for everyone, for themselves and possibly for their female companions. I really hope that you and your colleague, Minister Vandenbroucke, will find a solution very quickly because this inequality, this injustice, must end.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u4	Madam Secretary of State, my question dates from a while ago, but unfortunately intra-family violence still occurs on a daily basis. The more the problem is brought to the attention, the better. Many hairdressers have a relationship of trust with their regular customers. Because of corona there is an increase in the number of cases of domestic violence, and it still occurs daily. A training was set up in which hairdressers learn to recognize the signs of domestic violence. This course helps to identify signals in cases of abuse. The training currently only exists for hairdressers. Could this possibly be extended to beauty specialists, wellness staff or nailtylists? Do you have any idea how many hairdressers have already taken the training? I also have an additional question. When does the stalking alarm roll out all over the territory? I think that is very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u5	Mrs Dewulf, as Federal Secretary of State for Gender Equality, since the beginning of my term of office I have been very attentive to the problem of intra-family violence. For example, I initiated the federal action plan to combat gender-related and intra-family violence following the second corona wave, as well as the National Action Plan on Gender-related Violence. It included concrete actions to general practitioners and pharmacists. Awareness campaigns in specific professions are an important part of the fight against intra-family violence. Many of them come into contact with victims or catch signals of suspicions of a possible situation of violence. They need tools to guide them in doing so. That is why, together with the Minister of Health, I have further sensitised the general practitioners and healthcare professionals by disseminating practical manuals on the reporting codes 'partner violence','sexual violence' and 'genital mutilation in women'. A concrete action to train hairdressers about partner violence was taken by Febelhair, the sector organisation for Belgian hairdressers. In collaboration with the CAW and helpline 1712 they developed a training video. The project therefore falls within the competence of the regional ministers. For more information on the action and its evaluation, please refer to my colleagues at that level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u6	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your comprehensive answer. I am really glad that action is being taken. However, I did not hear anything about the stalking alarm. After all, your gender plan stated when it would be rolled out all over Belgium. It's really about time. Unfortunately, a serious 'accident' happened only last week. I don't have any words for it. It's very painful. I hope the stalking alarm is rolled out quickly. After all, it is very urgent. I hope you will talk to Minister Van Quickenborne about that alarm and ask him to roll it out in Belgium as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u7	Madam Secretary of State, since September 2020, voices have been raised in Belgium in order to denounce the way in which certain school rules are drafted with regard to clothing. Some school regulations are worded in imprecise terms that may leave too much room for the interpretation of the person to be applied, or even to the arbitrariness of the person to be applied. This is in particular the case of terms of the type "adequate holding" or "appropriate holding". Some regulations are directly discriminatory, since they provide for a differentiation between the rules on dress for girls and boys. Some regulations include the prohibition of earrings for boys or mini-skirts (even with leggings) for girls, for example, or even for boys in a targeted manner. Beyond these regulations, students, especially girls, face derogatory and sexist remarks at school - in some cases and fortunately not always -, thus strengthening gender-based attitudes and violence against women and unfortunately already firmly rooted in society. For example, a Walloon school in March 2021 had sent a letter to the parents stating: "Some have very short cleavages and blouses that attract the eyes of young male students in the middle of hormonal maelström." Poor boys! This was not stipulated in the letter! The letter goes on to state that "if an attack occurred in the vicinity of the school, then it would be too late. Schools are privileged spaces for tomorrow's citizens to build, so it is important that schools are not places where gender stereotypes and discriminatory gender-based mechanisms are already circulating. So here are my questions. We know that many issues related to the school environment are not directly in your hands but in those of your colleagues in the federated entities. But has the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men received complaints about sexist or discriminatory school regulations? Are you in contact with the relevant education authorities? If so, can measures be taken or planned to address this problem? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u8	Madame de Laveleye, in fact, as soon as a ray of sunshine points at the tip of her nose, tensions arise again in schools, with regulations that leave too much freedom to the interpretation of educators, students, directors. I really recommend that these regulations be the most precise and, of course, do not introduce a gender dimension between students. For the years 2021 and 2022, the Institute received 13 reports of ROI in schools. Since 2009, the Institute has had a cooperation protocol with the French Community to implement the decree of 12 December 2008 to combat certain forms of discrimination. This decree prohibits, inter alia, gender discrimination in education. Gender stereotypes perpetuate prejudices that in particular harm women and continue to discriminate against them. They also contribute to perpetuating a gender binarity and de facto exclude people with a fluid gender, who do not recognize themselves in the category assigned to that of a woman or that of a man. On the other hand, adolescence is a critical, delicate period when the body changes. It is a matter of approaching it with delicacy. In my view, measures must be adopted in terms of awareness-raising, training and combating gender discrimination and violence. I'm working on it every day. All reports of sexist ROI must be dealt with, and I will invite the Institute to screen the ROI of schools and to formulate guidelines and recommendations to change practices in schools where ROI is a problem, in collaboration with the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u9	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. It is true that at the level of the Federation, the lines are slowly starting to move. I find it really necessary and interesting that our Institute can support this work with their expertise and especially the direct return of complaints from the field. This makes it possible to objectify things. I must say that myself, as a parent, I am surprised to see the rules. I don't think my children are attending particularly problematic schools. But I did the practice of reading the rules, and it is so vague that it is clear that the interpretation of the rules by the adults who supervise the children in these schools does not have any beacons. I do have regular feedback from students who say it's frankly complicated, mostly for girls, but also sometimes for boys. We are in the twenty-first century. It has to stop. I hope your Institute will work well with Mrs. Désir. I have no doubt, but we must find solutions so that these young people can flourish in our schools as they are.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u10	Madame de Laveleye, the wage differences between players and professional players are huge. Professional footballers are clearly underpaid. Many people live in a certain precariousness, who have to combine a job, or even small jobs, and training, and who sometimes end up giving up their sports careers for these reasons. Some explain these wage differences by the fact that male sport earns much more financially and that, therefore, it is normal for athletes to be paid better than sportsmen. But it's the story of the chicken and the egg. If women's football received more visibility, especially from the media, audiences would increase as well as revenues. There would therefore be more money to professionalize the sector and so on. Federations as well as male footballers have, in my view, a role to play. The example of the Norwegian selection that agreed to lower the amount of her salary to increase that of the players should inspire us. Associations like Balance Your Sport! are active on this subject. However, male actors must also get wet for more equality with their counterparts in the same sport or even other sports. Finally, women must be better represented in decision-making positions. The Board of Directors of the Union Royale Belge has nine men and no women. Women are even under-represented in the Red Flames staff. Of the twenty-four members, only eight are women. The Women's European Cup will start next week. We are all concerned by the visibility that will be offered to him. The cafés and municipalities that broadcast the matches at the European Cup last year must also broadcast the matches of this women's European Cup. It is therefore important to pay attention to this in the coming weeks and, if necessary, to question it. In my view, measures can be taken at different levels. Of course, we are tackling a sector that is globalized with huge financial stakes. At the same time, it begins at an early age. This is, of course, a matter for federations, but when there are no changing rooms for girls in football clubs, discrimination already begins.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u11	Madam Secretary of State, it is really interesting to see the initiatives that can be taken in a decentralised way to meet this enormous challenge. Women have less access to sport, less visibility, less money. As you said, the snake bites its tail. The lines are slowly starting to move. I would like to hear that a national team is making an effort, but the measures that can be taken should be structurally examined. You say it's a global sport. I do not know whether it is up to the international federations to act; I imagine, in any case, that action can be taken at European or national level. It's a job you're starting. It would be interesting if we could even have legal perspectives on how to reverse the trend. Yes, let's all be behind our women's teams! We can be in a few days. Our attitude could have an influence on the situation. However, I think that we really need to move towards structural measures. Indeed, we cannot afford to expect for sport what we have expected for equal pay, that is, hundreds of years – and we are not there yet. So let's move forward as quickly as possible for sport!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u12	Question No 55027613C by Mrs Vindevoghel is not relevant, as it is retained in another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u13	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, last Friday in the United States, a decision of the Supreme Court made a lot of noise: it calls into question the right to abortion in many states, and this in an immediate way. Some States have already declared abortion illegal, even in cases of rape. Several parliamentary initiatives have been taken to improve the right to abortion in Belgium in recent years, in particular to shorten the period of reflection, extend the period of interruption of pregnancy and lift the criminal sanctions still in force. At the time of the formation of the government, it was decided to put this bill in the fridge. However, it could have passed with a fairly large majority. It was decided that it would be considered in the Justice Committee and that a multidisciplinary committee would consider the matter. Several questions have since been addressed to the government, but apart from the fact that this bill is actually being refrigerated, we have not been informed of the status of the case. Because of the events in the United States, the debate on the right to abortion has been revived in Belgium and raises the question of the steps to be taken in our country regarding sexual and reproductive rights and the right of women to dispose of their bodies. In the Committee on the Constitution, we discussed the advisability of including this right in the Constitution. What is the status of the government's discussions on the right to abortion? How can we respond to the 500 women who now have to go to the Netherlands to practice an IVG, who are not allowed in Belgium? Has Belgium adopted an official position in response to what is happening in the United States? Is it possible to extend the right to abortion in Belgium? What about the expert group that was to be set up?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u14	Madam Secretary of State, my question is not recent, in which I was wondering about the Supreme Court's upcoming decision on the GVI. His opinion fell like a cataclysm in the United States, plunging tens of millions of women into the greatest disarray, anger and sadness. Those who had made the decision that more freedom should be given to States had deprived women of a fundamental freedom, namely the freedom to dispose of their bodies freely. This decision will not prevent the abortions, but will oblige these women to sometimes travel several hundred kilometres to abort in another state either more progressive or late in its legislative process. We could also witness the return of clandestine abortions. As I pointed out, every nine minutes a woman dies of an illegal abortion. These numbers are cold in the back. This requires the utmost caution. A few months ago, we would not have imagined that the United States would come back on an acquit for more than 50 years. And yet, it is done; it is a sad day and a sad week for those who defend these fundamental rights. I will not ask you what is the most appropriate legal vehicle to guarantee this fundamental right of women to freely dispose of their bodies in Belgium. This was the debate earlier in the Constitutional Committee in which the Socialist Party submitted a request for an introductory report. I now come back to the last question in my text as originally tabled. Based on the Fourth National Action Plan "Women, Peace and Security" by which Belgium is committed to carrying out an analysis of the anti-gender movements active in Belgium and to developing a strategy on the issue, are you paying particular attention to relations with foreign anti-gender movements and to the lobbying they carry out with the European Union and its Member States? In any case, this is a very different introduction, obviously tinted with misunderstanding and a lot of sadness for these girls and women, but it is a very concrete question that I wanted to ask you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u15	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I too have had to adapt my question to the terrible reality that has been feared for a few weeks, perhaps months. We couldn't imagine it a few weeks ago, but it happened in the US: the decision in the Roe versus Wade case has been reversed. Immediately, a number of states have allowed their so-called trigger laws to enter into force. These are laws that entered into force immediately after the Roe versus Wade case had been pronounced. These laws run out of abortion care or prohibit it even under almost all circumstances. It is estimated that more than half of the states will introduce a ban. That would mean that some women would have to travel 800 kilometres or more to the nearest abortion center. Moreover, it is so vengeful, because we know from research that the number of women who are going to have abortion will increase. This also goes hand in hand with a completely different view of contraception. So there will still be laws introduced in America in the slipstream of this case. We also know that more women will die from unsafe abortions. Young women, people of colour, low-income people, prisoners and people living in rural areas will be the most affected. Has our country expressed its indignation at this matter in the United States? Or will it still do that? Did you express your indignation about this? Secondly, our government also undertakes to follow the UN's Fourth National Action Plan on Women, Peace and Security. This requires, among other things, an analysis of the anti-gender movements active in Belgium and the development of a strategy. We are talking about Objective 1, request 5. I was wondering whether relations with foreign anti-gender movements would be looked at here. Is the lobbying work of these foreign anti-gender movements also being mapped out when making the analysis? Finally, this almost incredible decision brings about the necessary commotion in our country. I wondered what you were thinking about the proposal to anchor the right to abortion in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u16	Madam Secretary of State, my colleagues have already begun a broad introduction. I am going to go straight to a dimension that seems to me to have to be stressed: this shift in the United States is not at all the result of chance. This is the result of many years of lobbying by the American anti-abortion movement. We know that this is a movement to which we must be extremely vigilant, not just in the United States. It has strong links with anti-gender groups in Europe and around the world. A recent study shows that right-wing Christian groups in the United States have spent at least $280 million in recent years on campaigns against the rights of women and LGBTQIA+ people around the world, not just in the United States. They have created a global network in which they share strategies and collaborate with extreme right-wing political groups, notably in Spain, Poland and Hungary. We should not recall that it is not only women in the United States that are targeted. This is also the case in Europe. There are already our fellow citizens in Poland who no longer have access to this fundamental right, and it is only 1,000 km from home. But this does not stop: like what is happening in the East, opposition to abortion care goes hand in hand with limiting access to contraception and other rights. That's what Mrs. Jiroflée just said. We are going to have further attacks on some of our rights, and that will further strengthen the problem of abortion. The rights of LGBTQIA+ people are also at risk, as various groups have set themselves the cancellation of national recognition of the right to homosexual marriage as their next objective. This reversal of the rights of women and other communities must not leave us indifferent and must prompt us to redouble our vigilance at home - that is what I had just said too. Madam Secretary of State, I will not rest on the same questions as those of my colleagues. I had specifically identified the question of the fourth national action plan "Women, peace and security" by which our Government committed itself to carrying out an analysis of the anti-gender movements active in Belgium and to developing a strategy on this subject. Madam Secretary of State, do you know where we are at this level? I will be happy to hear your answers to other colleagues' questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u17	Madam Secretary of State, I will not go back to the context of this dramatic decision that was taken by the American Supreme Court, as it was set out by my colleagues. On the other hand, I must stress the tragic consequences of this judgment on the lives of all women of childbearing age. This decision already penalizes tens of millions of women in the United States. Some have the means to be able to abort in other U.S. states where abortion will still be legalized or to go abroad, for example, in Canada. Besides, there are the others, the most precarious, the most vulnerable, who will have to abort in their state, where abortion has become forbidden. They will have to abort in hiding, either thanks to the help of a courageous doctor who is not afraid to be imprisoned for this, or with means that we knew decades ago in Belgium, with a hanger or needles. Already, today, access to abortive pills is also made much more difficult, either because it is made impossible in practice, or because demand has caused their price to explode. This situation obliges us to the greatest solidarity with these women, a solidarity that we had to anticipate in a concrete way, since a month ago we knew that the Court would shortly give its judgment. That is why I asked the Prime Minister about this issue at that time. He said: "Belgium does not take an official position on the basis of a preliminary draft decision. The position of the judicial authorities in the United States should be awaited." This decision has fallen, and I am obliged, Madam Secretary of State, to question you. Did our State have any contacts, unilaterally or via the European Union, with the United States after the announcement of the Supreme Court's decision? In the positive, with what conclusions? Can we use any diplomatic, economic or other means to put pressure on the US judicial authorities to deal with this decision? In what concrete way can our country help the tens of millions of women who will be affected by this Supreme Court ruling? I am thinking of supporting women's organizations that want to do an abortion, as announced more than a month ago, Canada and the state of California. Do you not think that it would be time to launch a clear signal in Belgium, by putting on the agenda of the Federal Parliament the decriminalisation of abortion and the extension of its deadlines? Or are you going to be satisfied, like some of our colleagues, with work that will be aimed only at revising the Constitution? It is a process that may be of interest - I do not call it into question at all - but it will only be possible to do so after a process that will be very long and at the end more than unceremonious, where today there is a proposal for a law that has a simple majority, parliamentary support and which can help women who, today, in Belgium, must also abort, as in the United States, in hiding. Finally, Madam Secretary of State, do you think that this decision of the American Supreme Court can encourage other, more conservative European states to follow it? If so, what is our strategy today to avoid it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u18	Recent developments in the US in relation to Roe versus Wade are indeed a major threat to women's sexual and reproductive rights, especially in the light of reactionary tendencies triggered by ultra-conservative movements worldwide. Like you, I'm very concerned about the antigender movements. A study is being prepared. It will examine links with international and foreign organizations and map their lobbying activities and financial flows. The study will make it possible to estimate the influence of antigender organisations in Belgium and draw recommendations from them. The public procurement is already under way. I have also planned to work with the European Parliamentary Forum on Sexual and Reproductive Rights. He is the author of the most recent report on antigender movements in Europe, which I recommend for your reading. As far as the abortion debate in Belgium is concerned, you know that it was agreed during the formation of the government that Parliament would discuss this issue. That's what happens in the Justice Commission. The composition of the expert committee and the timetable for the submission of a report are entirely in Parliament's hands. I would therefore advise you to inform your colleagues. You know that Belgium has always been a forerunner in defending women's sexual and reproductive rights. Think of our commitment in SheDecides and the Generation Equality Forum. As far as my skills are concerned, I have always positioned myself, both at European and international level, in favour of sexual and reproductive rights. I did so again last week at the Council meeting in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, which addressed the issue of migrants from Ukraine. Our Government was the first of the European Union to provide concrete financial support to Abortion Without Borders, which provides financial and logistical support to Polish women wishing to abort in another country in Europe. The subsidy which Minister Vandenbroucke and I have granted, and which I am about to renew, covers the costs of aborting in another European state for women who cannot afford it. Tomorrow, I invited civil society to a meeting with three Polish lawyers on the right to abortion, who responded to my invitation, to discuss the situation in their country. Ukrainian women, who have found refuge in Poland without realizing the difficulties of access to abortion, will also be present. I will also meet with the French Minister, Mrs Rome, to establish strong opportunities for action at European level. Finally, my administration is already working with France on a European seminar on good practices in sexual and reproductive rights, to be held with the European Commission at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u19	Madam Secretary of State, with regard to the question of the law on abortion, you are replying that it is being discussed in the Committee on Justice. However, there was no discussion. My colleague Rohonyi and I have even asked on several occasions to put it on the agenda and to obtain information on parliamentary work. We are told that this is included in the government agreement. It is within this body that this famous committee of experts has been appointed. In any case, the members of the Justice Committee did not have access to this information. Only a press article has been published on this subject. That's it! That doesn't reassure me, because I am comforted in the idea that the question remains in the fridge. You say we are at the forefront of sexual rights. However, I would like to remind you that today, abortion is only allowed up to twelve weeks, while the French have just decided to extend it until fourteen weeks. We have kept the six days of reflection, while the Netherlands voted two weeks ago to remove this deadline for women. This decision was precisely taken by an alternative majority. If the right to abortion has made some progress in this country, it is when it has been decided not to make it a matter of government and to give everyone the free choice. In comparison with some countries, we are, therefore, rather in decline. If we want to respond, and this is the essential thing, to the rise of the right - whether here or internationally - which wants to restrict socio-economic rights, but also the human rights of women and transgender people, it is only in an offensive way, by defending their rights – especially that of having their bodies. This law must be voted on. We have a majority in this Parliament. That is what needs to be done and would be the best answer to the rise of the far right.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u20	Madam Secretary of State, first of all, thank you for your answer. I hear that this anti-gender study is in preparation and that the public procurement has already passed. Then I would also like to respond. No, the socialist text, since that is the one we are talking about, is not in the fridge. In fact, it was the one who had generated the hearings under the previous legislature. It was the one that had been put to the vote in committee, and it was the one that had been repeatedly retaliated in plenary. In this debate, where the Socialist Party wants progress, we either play the donkey that is systematically stumbling on the same stone, or we try to find different ways of working. There is, and you know, a group of independent experts working on this issue. They're lawyers, psychologists. They were appointed by the Collège des recateurs francophones et neerlandophone. A report will be submitted at the end of the year. On the basis of this report and with those academics who work in a dispassionate manner (we have seen that this may have caused problems in the past), we will return this report. As we have always said, the government agreement is very clear, the issue remains in Parliament's hands. The will of the Socialist Party, since we are still masters of our text, is to be able to work after receiving this report. It is in the Committee on Justice that we can discuss this text in order to try to make progress. That is what we call our vows. Beyond the slogans and the 'only to' slogans, I would remind you that a majority in the plenary does not guarantee the vote. If that were the case and it was so simple, I can tell you that as soon as next week I would table the text on behalf of my group. You were attentive to the fact that there was a blocking minority who had been able to return this text to the Greek calends on several occasions. There is now another way to work, but this text is not in the fridge. I can assure you that in the Socialist Party, the will is that it is not there at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u21	Mr President, first of all, I agree with the long explanation given by Mr Prévot. As far as we are concerned, this dossier is not in the refrigerator, let us be very clear. However, we are now trying to make progress step by step through alternative ways, and we have good hope that we will succeed in doing so. As soon as the research that Mr Prévot spoke of is completed, that will obviously come to the committee. Secondly, I am particularly pleased, Madam Secretary of State, that you are including foreign anti-gender movements in that investigation, which you had already announced and which is also expected from Belgium. I think that's a good thing. I am therefore pleased that the investigation has since been ordered. Thirdly, I would like to reiterate the fact that the tragedy that is now taking place in the United States affects first and foremost the most vulnerable. I just listed them and I want to do it again. After all, this is a direct attack on people who are already having a hard time. They are now once again affected by the fact that they are no longer in charge of their bodies. Finally, Madam Secretary of State, I expected you to answer my last question. I asked you whether you were in favour of some of this matter being dealt with in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u22	Mr President, I take note of the fact that colleagues regularly address the same questions to the government, when we know that the work is under way. It takes time. This is frustrating because democracy and progress together take time. But, as has just been said, if we don't move forward together, we don't end up. However, I sincerely hope that our common objective - although I know that it is not for everyone in this Parliament but for most of the people who have spoken so far - is to find concrete solutions for all women in Belgium and, more broadly, for all women in Europe and throughout the world. I think that is what we want, not political war wars, to know who is hiding what or to know how and when we are going to be able to table which text. We want to find solutions for women and we can do it. I am convinced that this experience of the United States, this shock, this trauma of the United States is a useful moment to move forward, and I have no doubt that it will be achieved in the coming months. Let us remain as serene as possible, as oriented as possible towards this objective which is ours so that no woman should experience the trauma of a failed, clandestine abortion that can sometimes penalize them for life or even take their lives. If we all remain collectively focused on this, I think we will succeed. On the other hand, what I think is very important is that we have other levers. You mentioned solidarity. It is very good to want to change the Constitution, to want to move forward on a law that protects all Belgian women, including 400, 500 or 600 women – the figures vary – who do not have access to IVG today because, for one reason or another, they exceed the too short period of 12 weeks. That being said, we must continue to stand in solidarity with women who do not have access to it today. This is what the federal government has done through your initiative and that of Mr. Vandenbroucke. As I have told you several times, we can be proud of it and I would like other countries to be able to do the same as we do. I will therefore continue to say that we are proud and hope that other countries will follow. Development cooperation has been leveraged. Ms. Kitir is actively working on these issues in the countries of the South. We can still intensify it with her because her will is to move forward. It is known that low-income countries account for the bulk of unwanted pregnancies and abortion-related deaths. We talked about the precarious people at home, but it also concerns low-income countries. We must therefore have a strategy for ourselves, for the women of our country, but also for those of our continent and at the international level. In this regard, studies on anti-gender movements will be very useful because international coordination is needed to defend our collective rights. As long as a woman doesn't have access to the abortion, none of us really have access to it! Let us continue this struggle collectively!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u23	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. We all agree that what is happening in the United States is a reflection of the fragility of our fundamental rights, in particular the right to abortion in the world and, in this respect, in Belgium. It is therefore very important to be able to respond in practice to this judgment, both with regard to women in the United States and with regard to women in need in Belgium today. As far as the situation in Belgium is concerned, I feel a deep malaise within the government. In fact, you refuse to answer to us as to whether or not to go to the consecration of this right to abortion, when a simpler approach exists, namely to put on the agenda a bill that has a parliamentary majority and which allows to respond to women in need. Today, in Belgium, if one of the very strict conditions for the use of IVG is not met, the Public Prosecutor's Office may decide to prosecute the woman in question and her doctor, the acts being punishable by imprisonment. In the face of this reality, some parties propose to adapt the Constitution, but it is completely delusional. There is undoubtedly a blocking minority within the government. You are referring to experts who are working and will report, but omit to say that the government agreement states that after the submission of this report, a consensus will have to be reached between the seven parties of the Vivaldi coalition, including the CD&V, which has been opposed from the beginning. The DéFI Group has tabled a bill to limit referrals to the Council of State to put an end to this masquerade and to ensure that, from the moment a text has a parliamentary majority, it can be voted on, in order to provide practical assistance to women who need it. As far as the United States is concerned, the resistance is organized. And at the level of business and civil society, our country must support it in practice. You say that work is under way to map and target ultraconservative and ultrareligious lobbies. It is essential, but we must still be able to sanction them. In Belgium, an offence of obstruction of abortion is on the table of Parliament. In France, it was set up. It is necessary to be able to go so far as to criminalize the abortion in order to be able to punish these lobbyists once they have been identified. The other part is to support associations that help American women by financing their abortions in other states or abroad. We have done so in Poland, and I have just welcomed your approach; but I think that from the moment we have done so for Polish women, we must do the same for American women. Merci.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u24	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I have the feeling that the Committee on External Relations has today settled in all the committees. After all, the Committee on Constitutional and Institutional Renewal has just discussed foreign matters, and this committee is doing so now. I have some problems with the presentations today. It is very simplistic to transform the situation in the United States into our country. The problem also arose because the case was referred to the Constitutional Court at the time. There are parties that they now insist on including in the Constitution and moving away from Parliament. That is something that needs to be considered, because it has resulted in part of the problem in the United States. It is essential in this debate that, ethically speaking, only steps forward have been taken in Belgium over the past 50 years. In our country, there is no community asking for a decline. This is not the case either in politics or in the streets. The stupidest thing that we can do now is to do what some parties do too much in the debates. Such legislation is far too important for that. Some states in the United States are making dramatic decisions, but we cannot restore them from Belgium by moving dramatically in the opposite direction. This makes me a little uncomfortable, especially since it often concerns the proposals which the so-called minority has blocked. They were stopped, because there was simply a great deal to be noticed and because all the debate got out of the way. What is happening in the United States is not at all relevant in our country. I therefore hope that this will not be used or abused to re-examine such an important legislation. That is what I feel now in the speeches. Our community and the political parties do not question the right to abortion in any way. I read in the newspapers that the Flemish interest would now suddenly have a different view. I am waiting until I meet Mr Dillen in the corridor, because I have not heard her defend that position at any time in the debates where you were all present. Mr Jiroflée, look at the reports. She has said a few times: "We do not want to take steps back." That the Flemish Interest in a strange, populist story this weekend suddenly has a different idea, they have to explain that themselves. But there's no demand for it. Even if they suddenly wanted to defend that position, they would never find a federal majority for it. You know that, too. I don't understand that dramatic reaction to something far away from us. I only hope that, if there is another debate, the subject can be discussed in a fundamentally different way. Much more serious than it has been so far. And then everything can be done, there can certainly be improvements to the current legislation, although, quite frankly, it meets a lot. There is another point that we should bear in mind here in Parliament. I think the whole story is an example of legislation in which religion crawls. There's the Vatican again. Whoever knows me knows that the Vatican is not my favorite boîte. I have very little respect for that. But once again, a religion comes to interfere with legislation, and we all have to stay alert to that. We can certainly draw that lesson from this. The separation between Church and State Any church and state is a very important principle. We certainly need to enforce that in our legislation. So I would certainly not shoot too much into an anxiety mode because of what is happening in the distant United States.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u25	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, as my question has been tabled, I would now like to refer to it by updating my questions and asking you whether the initiatives to which I referred have been taken in the meantime, but also to take stock of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u26	Mr President, honourable Member, a few months ago, I funded with Minister Vandenbroucke the association Abortion Without Borders, as we have just discussed. In view of the catastrophic situation in connection with Ukrainian refugees who have, in some cases, been victims of rape, who have arrived in Poland, I have just reiterated this subside by doubling it. It will address the need for access to care in Belgium or in another country bordering Poland for Polish women. I also planned a visit of the collective to Belgium to have a clearer view of the needs on the spot and invited civil society to this exchange. The Institute for the Equality of Women and Men is working on a publication in Russian and Ukrainian containing specific information on the conditions for abortion in Belgium, so as to better inform those who arrive in our territory of their rights, but also of the places where they can go to have access to an abortion. We have also published brochures on CPVS in English, Ukrainian and Russian, which are available on the Institute's website. As regards the needs in Ukraine, I refer you to my colleague, Minister Kitir, who coordinates Belgium's humanitarian response in Ukraine. With regard to your questions on support for planning, my colleagues from the Walloon Region and the Brussels Region will be the most competent to answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u27	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. Our country must do its utmost to help care for those women who are victims of this barbarism. We know that the voluntary sector is on the bridge, as well as the medical world. Therefore, we must all be able to take charge of and help these women. Please inform us, in particular of the fact that the information is transmitted to them upon arrival on the territory with translated documents. It is important to give them the right information. Perhaps it is also likely to reassure them somewhat in times of turmoil. In addition, I will ask your colleague Meryame Kitir about the situation in Ukraine. And I will not fail to return to you as the situation evolves.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u28	Madam Secretary of State, dolls reserved for girls and cars for boys, pink for each other and blue for each other; the roles of care, domestic work and beauty for them, action, physical activity and technology for them: these stereotyped toys anchor the youngest minds in sexist predispositions. In Spain, manufacturers of this type of goods have pledged to the government that they will no longer distribute advertising that conveys these photographs. This is a self-regulatory code that will come into force on December 1st, before the Christmas season, which is suitable for children's purchases. Spain is not the first country to take this initiative: in France, some 30 companies committed in 2018 to combating gender stereotypes and, in 2017, the United Kingdom had also tightened its rules to limit such messages. Madam Secretary of State, in collaboration with Secretary of State Eva De Bleeker, are there any discussions with the sector or are they going to be held to combat these gender stereotypes? Is consultation with federated entities on the agenda? Could a code of self-regulation similar to that set up in Spain be considered at home?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u29	Mr Prévot, in recent years, a certain gender sensitivity has emerged with regard to the supply of children's toys and the advertising of these toys. There is a growing trend towards neutral clothing for children, advertisements in which boys play with dolls and girls with Legos. Like you, I regret that this is not widespread and that this trend is still too weak and too slow. The National Plan of Action against Gender Violence pays great attention to the danger of gender stereotypes that lead to discrimination or even gender-based violence. Many ministers have committed themselves, within their own powers, to acting on these stereotypes and I call on everyone, regardless of their level of power, to carry out actions within their competence aimed at deconstructing gender stereotypes. It is true that advertising guidelines or restrictions are often governed by codes of conduct or ethical codes developed by the sector itself. Compliance with these rules is ensured by the advertising ethics jury, the self-regulatory body independent of advertising in Belgium. Discussions on a self-regulatory code should therefore take place with the JEP. Such a code should be possible. JEP itself has already made a recommendation on when advertising related to the sale of toys for children's parties can be carried out. In any event, I would welcome such a self-regulation code. The ICD "Women's Rights" is currently chaired by Bénédicte Linard, the minister in charge of women's rights in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, and you will be pleased to learn that sexist advertising is one of the priority themes she set for her presidency in 2022. It seems to me that this is the right place to organize the consultation between the federal and the federated entities on the subject. I hope that in the coming months we will be able to develop a concerted strategy to combat sexist advertising for children.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u30	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. Indeed, from year to year, we see more and more advertisements trying to break these clichés, but unfortunately the norm is not that yet. There is a real educational role to play in breaking these codes and clichés. I hear that, at all levels of power, you invite everyone to fight against these clichés. I also hear, and it is very happy, that the advertising ethics board has already dealt with the issue. The good news is that the ICD "Women's Rights" should be able to put this item on the agenda. Let us beware that I hope there will be a concrete proposal out of it. Why not a self-regulatory code modeled on the Spanish model? I think that would be a very good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u31	Madam Secretary of State, the tasks entrusted to the Institute for Equality between Women and Men (IEFH) continue to expand over time. Thus, in the fight against cyberviolence and revenge porn, the Institute plays a key role in accompaniment and support for victims. Since 1 July 2020, the IEFH has the competence to assist victims of unaccepted distribution of images and recordings of a sexual nature. As such, he wrote a manual explaining how to report images to the platforms in order to have them removed and how to file a complaint with the police. In the fight against cyberviolence, Unia and IEFH have a special role to play in reporting on social networks. What additional means have been released to support IEFH in these specific missions? Could any additional staff be employed in this framework? Have specific training courses been offered to IEFH members to play this role? Finally, as part of the National Action Plan to Combat Gender-Based Violence 2021-2025, Action Point 69 provides for the development of an information platform on cybersexism. Could you tell me when this platform should come into being and how it is being worked out with the federated entities within this framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u32	Member, in April 2021 and at my request, the government approved the allocation of additional emergency resources to the IEFH in the context of the health crisis. The objective was to deal with the increase in reports of unaccepted dissemination of intimate images to IEFH and cases of violence between partners. With this allowance, the IEFH recruited seven full-time equivalents for the period from 1 July 2021 to 31 December 2021 inclusive, including five persons for the legal service and two attachés to manage cases of violence. In 2021, the total cost of this staff was around EUR 189 000. In 2022, the IEFH received a supplementary budget to extend these contracts. In the meantime, a number of IEFH staff members have been trained on the issue of cyberviolence. The implementation of the national plan to combat gender-based violence is obviously very important to me. Many measures of the plan are being implemented. Cooperation with the Communities and the Regions takes place mainly through the interdepartmental coordination group of the plan. The development of an information platform on cybersexism has not yet been fully discussed. This will require specific work in the coming months and we will do so. In addition to developing this measure, I am also working on the implementation of other measures in the plan as part of the fight against sexual violence online.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u33	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. The purpose of my question was to ensure that, with the new tasks of combating cyberviolence and pornographic revenge (revenge porn), the necessary means were made available to enable effective follow-up. I understand that additional resources have been allocated and sustained, and that seven collaborators have been engaged. It's a good thing to be able to prosecute this kind of crime.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u34	Mrs Vindevoghel's question is without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u35	On 17 May, the international day against homophobia and transphobia, you announced a federal action plan for an LGBTQI+-friendly Belgium, which is in line with your national action plan against violence against women. It is a long list of planned measures, which makes it difficult to see the priorities. Can you explain the main lines of this federal plan? Which of the 133 measures are priority? Is there a timeline? We saw on social media that EUR 3 million will be allocated to the elaboration of the plan, but it is not clear whether it is a one-off or structural funding. Is it a budget under your authority or distributed across the different competences, as is the case with the action plan against violence against women? In the press, particular attention was paid to the prohibition of conversion therapies. How often does this practice occur in Belgium? Will there be a penalty for that? Would you like to call for an amendment to Article 150 of the Constitution, so that not only racism and xenophobia, but also any form of hate speech based on gender identity or sexual orientation is persecuted in the same way as racism? Do you also apply for a full refund of any medical interventions in transpersonal cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u36	The Action Plan is based on four strategic principles, firstly, increasing knowledge, secondly, an inclusive government, with the fight for the rights of LGBTQ+ individuals becoming an integral aspect of each policy, thirdly, well-being and health and, fourthly, security and discrimination. As regards the budget, three million euros will be spent over three years, i.e. one million euros per year. Part of this budget is allocated through the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men and the other through the Equal Opportunities Service of the SPF Justice. This budget is structural. With regard to data on conversion therapies, I recommend the qualitative study of the Permanent Centre for Citizenship and Participation that has just been released. It is very enlightening about the networks in which they operate, but also about the reasons for explicitly prohibiting such therapies. The preliminary draft law on conversion therapies is in preparation. We cannot therefore yet say whether criminal sanctions will be introduced into the law. Yes, I am in favour of amending Article 51 of the Constitution, which would allow for hate speech based on gender identity, sexual orientation or other grounds of discrimination to be prosecuted in the same way as racism. I am pleased to hear that we can count on PVDA's support for this reform. I encourage all initiatives aimed at combating discrimination against LGBTIQ+ people. However, the student organisation as such does not fall within my competence. I am in favour of a healthcare system that takes into account LGBTQI+ individuals. For example, I included in the Action Plan a pilot project to set up a medical home for LGBTQI+. Regarding the full reimbursement of medical care for transgender people – I am personally in favour of it – this discussion must be held with the Minister of Health. I also invite you to ask him the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u37	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. It was positive to have a comprehensive plan that included 133 measures. It is also good to move forward with a few priorities. It is also one of our criticisms of the plan against violence against women. It is a large catalogue of intentions, but we want to see concrete results. It is not always obvious to see which priority axes you want to put forward. I also note the budget of 1 million a year, but I wonder if that will be enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u38	This amount only relates to my skills. Other ministers also have to account for their expenses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u39	For conversion therapies, the law is in preparation and it is good news, as well as the article of the Constitution regarding hate speech. As far as medical care is concerned, I will question Mr Vandenbroucke, but I hope that you will do the same in the government. It seems to me that this remains an important brake. Medical expenses can sometimes lead to a degree of insecurity for transgender people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u40	Madam Secretary of State, in recent years women have finally freed up their word in the face of all forms of violence against them. From the world of cinema with metoo to the latest scalebar, voices are now rising in a new medium: that of surgery. A press article published on May 23, 2022 recounted the experiences of female students and nurses in several hospitals across the country. The charges are always the same: from hand to ass to daily misogynous remarks, even rapes. The omerta of the victims would have to do with two things: first, the surgeon feels protected by his position of authority and the extreme difficulty of replacing him if he has become a renowned expert in his subject matter; second, the students and nurses fear that a denunciation will lead to a negative internship report or even a dismissal that will find a false justification. Being held by graduation or fear of being unemployed, these women remain for the most part in mutism and surgeons responsible for unacceptable behaviors are unfortunately bathed in perfect impunity. Madam Secretary of State, have you been aware of any evidence of sexual and gender-based violence in the surgical community and in hospitals more generally? Have any complaints been filed in this context? What remedies are available to victims today? Have discussions with your colleague Minister Frank Vandenbroucke ever taken place within this specific framework? How can the words of the victims be released in this very specific environment?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u41	Member, thank you for your question. I would also like to refer to the difficulty in this type of sector where strong hierarchical relationships exist, which constitute a breeding ground for gender-based and sexual violence in the workplace. I would also like to express my solidarity with these workers and to stress their courage in having dared to free their word to denounce these facts, so that this will no longer happen to others. At the end of May 2022, the press reported the dismissal of a head of intensive care at Saint-Luc Hospital, who allegedly intervened following a complaint of sexual harassment. Recommendation 206 on violence and harassment, which accompanies ILO Convention 190, states that the health sector is more likely to expose women workers to violence or harassment. It's already an important element. The Institute receives numerous reports on this issue in different areas. Several remedies are available to victims: the initiation of internal proceedings for psychosocial risks at work; domestic remedies, for example, to provincial medical commissions; legal, civil or criminal proceedings, on the basis of article 32ter of the Act of 4 August 1996 on the welfare of workers in the performance of their work; articles 442bis and 448 of the Criminal Code; the sexist law; and article 119 of the Social Penal Code. International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 190 recognizes the right of every person to a world of work free from violence and harassment, including on the basis of gender. This Convention is an opportunity to improve our legislation, including by providing for a more precise definition of gender-related violence in the Work Well-Being Act. That is why it is being ratified. We are currently awaiting the advice of the Council of State. Once this notice has been received, the Bill assenting to the 190 Convention may be tabled in the House of Representatives. It would be appropriate for the victim to be able to claim justice on the basis of both the welfare law and the gender law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u42	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. Whatever the field or sector, gender-based and sexual violence is unacceptable and must be continued. I thank you, therefore, for continuing this fight. While it is important for victims to be free of speech, it is essential that courageous women who dare to speak be assured of follow-up. I therefore encourage you in your proactive policy to continue to support these women and victims and to prosecute the aggressors.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u43	Madam Secretary of State, last year the Institute for Equality between Women and Men (IGVM) received 1,020 reports of discrimination based on gender, which exceeded the cape of 1,000 reports. This represents an increase of 16% compared to 2020. The number of complaints increased by 51% compared to 2020. When we examine the reports, certain pain points come up. An important part of the reports is about discrimination at work. Of these, about one in three reports relate to pregnancy, motherhood or wish for children. Remarkable increases can be found in the number of reports of sexual harassment, both digitally and on the street. The number of notifications of discrimination against trans-persons also increased by 28% in the last year. Can you estimate to what extent the increase in these figures is due to an increase in discrimination and to what extent the increase is due to the fact that more people find their way to the IGM? What measures will you take to tackle gender discrimination in the workplace? Especially with regard to pregnancy, motherhood and wish for children? How do you explain the increase in the number of reports of discrimination against transpersons?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u44	Thank you. Mrs Merckx, like you, I was shocked by the high number of reports at the Institute. I don't know if there's an increase in the number of cases, or if more victims contact the Institute. These figures are not acceptable. I use this indignation to continue to fight discrimination. Firstly, there is still a need to fight in the workplace. Balance between work and private life remains a major challenge for many workers who have children and/or take on care tasks. That is why I am ensuring the transposition of the Work-Life Balance Directive, which should provide the best possible protection against discrimination for all workers with care tasks. This way, more women can stay on board. Secondly, transhumans are also too often victims. Transhumans are coming out of the closet younger and younger, making them more visible and therefore more potential victims. Research also shows that the younger generation is more open to transpersons than the older generation. Those who are not open to it do, however, act more actively and violently against transpersonalities. I am very aware of the problem and I am addressing it through the Lgbtq+ action plan. In my capacity as Secretary of State for Gender Equality, I have obtained from 2022 that the Institute will receive structural additional funds for, among other things, three additional lawyers to deal with the increasing number of reports, including specifically for digital sexual violence, and for two additional attachés to strengthen gender equality policies in the workplace.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u45	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. Whether more people find their way to the Institute for Equality between Women and Men or whether the number of complaints is increasing effectively, we do not know. That does not alter the fact that we have to take the issue seriously. With regard to the problem in the workplace of pregnant or potentially pregnant women who are discriminated against, we can take even more concrete action to improve the situation, also in consultation with the Minister for Labour. It is also necessary to look at this in the context, for example, of the employment deal recently decided by the government. The government wants people to work ten days a week, with more flexibility and more night work. This is also a real problem for the place of women in the workplace. The government takes decisions in this area which are rather a retrograde step. I would therefore ask you to be aware of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u46	I note Mrs Reuter's absence. I therefore give the floor immediately to Mrs Rohonyi to put her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u47	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, last March we learned of the existence of the call for projects, as it will be necessary, launched on your initiative, which I thank you for. The aim of this call for projects was to support and stimulate projects by feminist, trans and intersex movements, as well as other organisations related to women's social empowerment and gender equality, with a view to structural funding from 2023 onwards. The initial amount for this was EUR 1.1 million. This amount then rose to €2 million, given that each project had to be submitted to the Institute for Gender Equality for funding from €25,000 to €60,000 each. Within this framework, several themes were highlighted, including endometriosis. Many projects have been selected, including a project from the Infor-Women Family Planning Centre, which is obviously a welcome development. On the other hand, other equally interesting or even more interesting projects have not been selected. I am thinking in particular of the project carried out by the ASBL "Toi mon Endo" which was purely and simply refused subsidisation, when it was supported by multiple actors in the field such as the Erasmus Hospital or the Academy of Belgian Gynaecologists, and met the objective of the call for projects, namely awareness-raising and training on endometriosis. In fact, the ASBL has recently proved its expertise in this area since it was heard in Parliament at a round table organised by my colleague, Florence Reuter, who is unfortunately absent today. Not understanding this refusal, the ASBL has contacted the Federal Institute of Human Rights (IFDH) on numerous occasions to find out the reasons for this refusal, without success until this morning. Finally, it received an answer, namely, that the target audience was not sufficiently targeted when gynaecologists and generalists were clearly targeted, and that it would be too complicated to finance a project that would apply to the whole country, even though it is a matter of common sense to support a project that aims to increase awareness and training about a disease that affects 10 per cent of the female population throughout the country, regardless of the region in which they live. It is therefore a total incomprehension that now inhabits this association. Madam Secretary of State, on the basis of which grid did the selection of projects take place? How many endometriosis projects have been selected, given the scale of the issue? What is the objective of the Infor-Women Family Planning Centre project? Could this objective not be combined with that of the ASBL "You my Endo"? For what reasons was the latter dismissed? I cited those that had been communicated by the Institute. Do you understand them? More generally, how do you intend to organise the structural financing of the various projects selected from 2023 onwards? For what and/or for whom will it be destined?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u48	Mrs Rohonyi, in fact, last March, I decided to launch a call for projects entitled 'As long as necessary' on gender issues for a total amount of EUR 1.1 million. We have received more than 120 files. In the face of the many high-quality projects, I decided to double the envelope to reach a budget of more than 2 million euros. The list of the 48 projects selected was approved by the Institute's Board of Directors. It is also available on its website. Together with the organizations, the Institute is putting the finishing touches on the protocols. For each project, an interim report and a final activity report are planned. Unfortunately, the budget increase has not made it possible to finance all the interesting and high-quality projects we have received. A jury evaluated the projects on the basis of the criteria of the Regulation and the subsidy guide, which is available on the website of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. Among the projects that received excellent evaluation, a project on endometriosis was selected to improve the accessibility of information, both for the general public and for professionals, and to provide care for women with chronic pelvic pain, sexual disorders and/or infertility. Organizations whose projects were not selected were invited to contact the Institute for further explanations. To my knowledge, as you have just mentioned, the Institute has therefore contacted the ASBL that you have cited in order to provide it with its justifications. This could not be done in the early hours, because the priority was to manage the administrative aspects in order to launch the selected projects as quickly as possible. Of course, that's my concern. As in any selection, it is important for a project to have an intrinsic quality, then to be better ranked than the others – especially when a lot of files are filed and they depend on a closed envelope, as is the case here. I would like to stress that Belgium benefits from the presence of a strong network of associations, from the north to the south of the country, to which we owe a great deal for the advancement of rights, social justice and the emancipation of our citizens. Supporting his work is one of my priorities, because it is about working hand in hand. It is not only necessary to be able to deploy progressive policies that defend women's rights, but also to be able to trust the world of associations. I am therefore, of course, sorry that projects have not been selected and have not received the funds hoped for. This is part of the game as part of a call for projects. The rankings were made objectively through the work of a jury. I am therefore a little surprised by your approach in committee in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u49	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. My approach is simple. In addition to the legislative work, there is the oversight component of government action and I want to understand the situation. You say that there was some transparency in this call for projects and that there was publicity about the criteria for determining whether a project had a chance of being subsidized. Of course, it is not possible to finance all the projects, but I would like to know whether these criteria were available to all the associations before they submitted their applications or only afterwards. In addition, you say that the projects supported are aimed at improving the accessibility of information for the public and professionals. If you're going to see the great work that the association "You my endo" does, that's exactly what they do. Finally, an extremely important and useful job has been swept away for reasons that are totally beyond my control. I didn't hear you about that. It is said that a project is not funded because it has a national dimension, but it should have been for this reason that it should have been supported. The association does not understand and I had to relay this misunderstanding to you today. Finally, the only hope we have today is to see a new call for projects with clearer entry-level criteria so that associations can refine their file and finally be supported, as should have been the case in the first call for projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u50	Question No 55029095C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u51	Mrs Van Hoof is absent and cannot therefore ask her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u52	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Overmere and Merksplas were shaken up by two murders this weekend. In Overmere, a man shot his ex-lover in the head, probably after she put an end to their affair. In our opinion, that is the eleventh feminicide of the year. That figure should be derived from the press and from the reports of civil society, because there is no official registration yet. In Merksplas, a man invaded his ex-partner's home. There he killed her son and seriously injured her daughter. The killer had taken his ex-partner hostage, abused and threatened with death a month earlier. Then an arrest followed and a crossbow was seized. The parole board requested an arrest for attempted murder, but the investigating judge didn't go into that. The next day the man was free again. People from the victim's neighborhood testified to the newspaper about the unfriendly women's views of the perpetrator. For every fatal victim, it becomes clear that we still have a long way to go in the fight against gender-based violence. My colleague, Mrs Maria Vindevoghel, questioned you last time about the state of play regarding the feminicide commitments you make in your National Action Plan. How is it, first of all, possible that someone's taking his ex-partner hostage, assaulting him and threatening him with death, but the next day just walks free? In sexual criminal law it is stipulated that a judge has a psychological analysis prepared of a suspect. It can examine the views of the suspect on equality between women and men. We call for the analysis to be compulsory. Our question was not accepted for budgetary reasons in the context of the previous changes in the law on sexual violence. Is it a good idea, in your opinion, to extend those psychological analyses to other forms of gender-related violence? You stated that there are contacts to establish a legal framework that allows feminicides to be officially registered. Can you give us a little more explanation? How's the file coming? On the analysis of gender-based murders, you referred to the study of the National Institute of Criminal and Criminology as a first phase of research, followed by a second. Can you clarify what that second phase of research is? The advice the experts would have given to the Minister of Justice does not recommend the inclusion of feminicide in the Criminal Code. What reason was given for that? In your opinion, the criminal justice experts gave other interesting legal slopes. What kind of slopes are we talking about? How much is the planned budget in the fight against feminicide?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u53	Mrs Merckx, indeed, this weekend was marked by several terrible events in Flanders: the femicide of Sandra, 32, by her ex-partner in Overmere, and the murder of a young man, Jarne, killed by her ex-mom in Merksplas. His sister was seriously injured while his mother was taken hostage for several hours. I would like to extend my full support to these survivors and their families. These facts are dramatic and invite us first to take the time to analyse what has happened in practice on the ground. Have all the means available to prevent these tragedies been used well? What has malfunctioned in the procedures in place? Is this a question of training the actors? These are issues that need to be clarified independently of the concrete measures provided for in the Action Plan, which must actually be achieved by 2025. The National Action Plan against Gender-based Violence includes several actions for better prevention of feminicide, better protection of potential victims and their children, faster police interventions and improved risk assessment. In order to prevent feminicide and make it more visible, the Commission for the Reform of Criminal Law ruled that the main focus should be on a clear legal definition, the specific registration of feminicide at police and legal level, specific training for magistrates and police officers. I am therefore drafting a preliminary draft law on the prevention and control of feminicide. That will soon be discussed in the government. Another example is the pilot project around the app stalking in East and West Flanders. Together with the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior, I am currently preparing the national roll-out of this project. I have introduced several conditions to which this project must respond, such as putting the needs of the victims at the centre, linking them to the temporary home ban in the long term and providing specific training for the actors concerned. Furthermore, the National Institute of Criminalistics and Criminology develops a methodology for reviews of feminicide in my commission. This will be available in October. Measures to train professionals are also part of the National Action Plan in various sectors. The training of police and justice, in particular, is one of the priorities. I myself will ensure that a common foundation of training for all professionals, in line with the Istanbul Convention, is available by March 2023, taking into account the problem of secondary victimization. With regard to the risk assessment, I recall the existence of the KUL 2015-2020. The aim of this risk assessment tool is to highlight the presence of certain particularly alarming risk criteria, requiring immediate advice from the Public Prosecutor's Office and, where appropriate, a prompt and adequate response from the magistrate. The National Action Plan is committed to strengthening the use of this tool. As coordinator of the National Action Plan, I initiated a follow-up procedure, so that by the end of 2022 we would have an annual report presenting the state of the affairs of each firm. Finally, I would like to point out that a budget of EUR 2.5 million was foreseen for the implementation of the National Action Plan, just for my subjects. All firms are also committed to making the budgets spent on implementing their own commitments visible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u54	Madam Secretary of State, I understand that a bill on the prevention and control of femicides is being drafted. The PTB-PVDA Group welcomes this and will be attentive to its content. I do not know whether the preliminary draft also addresses the question of the definition of femicide and how to count it. To date, we depend on associations to account for femicides in our country. It is important to move forward on this issue. The events of this weekend, involving a person who had already been arrested and who committed very serious acts a month later, bear witness to the enormous work that remains to be done to truly protect the victims and to fill the many gaps that remain. The bill is under way. I won't say any more. We must work on it, because serious acts are committed on a daily basis. In the context of sexual law, our group proposes that a psychological analysis be made of each person who commits facts to determine whether there is a risk of recidivism. It is also, in the context of violence against women in general, a path to be explored that Minister Van Quickenborne did not finally have compulsory inclusion in the law, for budgetary reasons. The current budget for you of EUR 2.5 million per year seems to me to be very low when compared to commitments made in countries such as Spain. If we were to make a rule of three in relation to the population, we would need a budget of 170 million a year in Belgium, in order to achieve the same ambitions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic840x.u55	Question No 55029245C by Mrs Van Hoof is postponed.
