ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u1	I find that there are people who are absent. On the other hand, Mrs Dierick apologized. When they are joined, his questions become moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u2	Mr Minister, in recent weeks dead birds have been found in several coastal areas infected with the highly contagious avian influenza virus. Recently there was another case in Veurne, if I'm not mistaken. There is therefore a fear that the number of sick and dead birds will increase. Minister, what is the most recent evolution on this issue? What measures or additional measures will you take in this respect? Will you urge the European Commission to organise a group purchase for vaccination of poultry? Does our country have enough avian influenza vaccines at its disposal pending the response of the European Commission? How will you accept a possible negative response from the European Commission? Are you considering compulsory vaccination and how will you organise it in the long term? Mr Minister, I have also put a question about pigeon sport. In February 2021 I already questioned you about the consequences of the so-called animal health law for pigeon sport. On the question of what initiatives you took to avoid an unsophisticated introduction of the relevant regulation making pigeon sport in our country virtually impossible, you replied that the European Commission had held working group meetings in October and November 2020 on this issue, which highlighted the problems posed by the regulation for pigeon sport in our country by the BFSA. You also stated that the Commission was aware of the problem and had any changes to the regulation in question in its drafting. This includes the proposal to consult on 26 November 2020 not to extend the minimum stay of 21 days to certain competitions. What is the state of play, Minister? What progress has been made with the bilateral agreements with France on pigeon races from France? Have there been any discussions with the European Commission on the regulation you are undoubtedly familiar with? In your reply to one of my questions at the time, you indicated that you had not yet had any contact with Flemish Minister Weyts. Has that happened in the meantime, either directly or via the BFSA? Given the cases of avian influenza found on the Flemish coast, to what extent do you think vaccination can play a role in the light of the European regulation and the recent outbreak of avian influenza? What possibilities do you see in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u3	Several European Member States are currently affected by avian influenza. Unfortunately, our country doesn't escape the dance either. As a result, the can is increasingly directed towards the administration of avian influenza vaccine. In the past there were rather mixed opinions and feelings about this. The Agriculture Ministers of the EU Member States asked the European Commission at the end of May to examine the possibilities of a group purchase mechanism or vaccine banks. This should ensure a robust and responsive supply of vaccines. Vaccination is, of course, not a substitute, but it is complementary to compliance with strict biosecurity measures and other existing prevention and control measures. Given the cross-border nature of the avian flu, it is therefore now being asked for group purchases for vaccines. What is your opinion on that question? What's the follow-up? By what time can we expect the Commission's response? What avian influenza vaccines are available today? How effective are they and what is the cost? To what extent should the administration of vaccines have an impact on food safety be investigated? Have you had discussions with the poultry sector on vaccination issues? What is the sector's position on the issue? Are you considering a mandatory vaccination of poultry against the avian flu or will vaccination be voluntary? What attitude will you take if the European Commission does not want to engage in group purchases of vaccines?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u4	Mr President, I will answer the six attached questions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u5	If you have prepared a comprehensive response, you cannot proceed otherwise. But normally, you only have to answer questions that are put to you in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u6	In any case, it is more interesting to have the six answers available. Colleagues, on 15 November 2021, following the detection of avian influenza in wild birds, a period of increased risk was declared throughout Belgium. This period requires additional protective measures for all poultry holders, whether professional or private. These measures introduced following the declaration of the period of risk have limited the number of infections in poultry and captive birds. I was able to lift the imposition of these measures on 11 May, which enabled Belgium to regain its free status for this disease on 20 May. Contamination of wild birds along the coast was further reported in early June. The risk of transmission to poultry and poultry of hobby is therefore still tangible not only in the vicinity of the coast, but also elsewhere in the country, and certainly in all risk areas with many waterbirds. Compliance with all biosecurity rules and precautionary measures throughout the sector are therefore still necessary. However, additional measures are not currently required. As of June 20, a new H5N1 infection was reported in a well-known Zoutleeuw poultry merchant in the AFSCA services. Unfortunately, this has resulted in the re-establishment of the three- and ten-kilometre protection zones around the home, but it has not affected our internationally unscathed status. I have asked the Federal Agency for Food Chain Safety (AFSCA) to severely punish this unscrupulous operator of Zoutleeuw who, by his negligence, seriously penalizes the whole sector. We know him. This is not the first time this has happened and it is beginning to do well. From November 1, 2021 to June 21, 2022, outbreaks were confirmed in four professional poultry farms and two captive bird merchants. There have also been approximately eighty cases in wild birds. Since 2020, nine outbreaks have been confirmed on commercial farms. Compensation was provided by the Health Fund for poultry and other captive birds slaughtered on professional holdings and on private property, as well as for eggs and poultry feed which had to be treated or destroyed. A total of €2,453,407.52 was granted to 12 farms and seven individuals. Compensation varies from EUR 8.10 for an individual to more than EUR 1 million for a professional, so that an average would not be representative. Operational costs were covered by the AFSCA. As a result of the loss of our highly pathogenic avian influenza-free status due to the H5N1 virus, 22 countries imposed an embargo. Depending on the country of destination, these include live poultry, birds, hatching eggs, day-old chicks, poultry meat and derived products, eggs, egg products, feed and animal by-products. There is often an exception for products that have undergone specific heat treatment. For destinations which have not imposed an embargo, the conditions of the certificate must be complied with. These may be specific thermal treatments to which the products must be subjected or guarantees concerning the origin of poultry or meat. Hong Kong, Morocco, the Philippines, Mexico, Japan, Israel, Iraq, South Korea and Thailand imposed embargoes following the home in late June 2021. Singapore, China, Cuba, Russia, Taiwan, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Suriname, Oman, Kuwait, Ukraine and South Africa have maintained the previous embargoes. In many countries in Europe, cases of avian influenza are still reported weekly on poultry farms and wild birds. Viral pressure remains very high and the risk of new outbreaks is still real. Then I want to talk about the vaccination. France, currently holding the Presidency of the European Union, wants to make vaccination an additional prevention and control tool in Europe against avian influenza, for the highly pathogenic H5N1 virus. At the European Agriculture Council in Brussels on 24 May, I confirmed Belgium's support for the introduction of a European strategy to prevent and combat avian influenza, including vaccination. However, I have reiterated that the impact this strategy could have on our exports could be considerable. There is currently no vaccine on the market that is effective, safe and suitable for use on site and that can be widely applied in the poultry sector. Before vaccination against avian influenza can be used, studies will have to be carried out to evaluate the risks, analyse the costs and benefits, and develop a model that allows us to assess the effects of vaccination. A vaccination strategy and the practical arrangements for implementing it are currently being evaluated by the European Commission, in consultation with the Member States. A plan for Belgium can be drawn up if necessary. Vaccination should not constitute a barrier to trade. Discussions will have to be held with third countries in this context. In its 2007 opinion, the European Food Safety Authority concluded that there was no evidence that vaccination of poultry would pose a direct risk to the health of consumers. However, there is a request from the Commission to update this opinion. I would like to remind you that the prevention and control of avian influenza remains based on biosecurity measures and monitoring. The vaccination is only an additional medicine that will be able to be used. Contacts with wild animals and movements of animals should be limited as far as possible in the restricted zones in order to prevent the spread of the virus from those areas. In competitions with sport pigeons a large number of birds from different places come together, which can travel long distances. These competitions therefore constitute a risk activity that should be limited in order to protect this sector and the poultry sector. The use of a national or multinational vaccine bank will be studied. Finally, I briefly zoom in on the consequences for pigeon sport. At the request of the BFSA, European legislation for racing pigeons has been adapted. They are now exempt from the minimum stay of 21 days mentioned by you, Mr Creyelman. Such animals need no longer be accompanied by an animal health certificate issued by the competent authority. However, animals still have to comply with animal health conditions, such as absence of clinical signs or suspicion of relevant diseases, and vaccination against Newcastle disease. The amendment of the EU regulation has solved the problems and a bilateral agreement with France is no longer necessary. As the European Commission has responded positively to our requests, meetings are no longer necessary. There is no conflict with the areas of competence of Minister Weyts in the management of this dossier, so that there was no need for consultation. The problem to be solved is that of the protection zone around the outbreaks. Since the entry into force of the Animal Health Law at the end of April 2021, the measures are dictated by the current Regulation 2020/687. The fact that a pigeon fancier from a regulated zone is not allowed to participate in pigeon races is a consequence of the ban on the transport and collection of sensitive animals in those zones. For bird flu, the legislation defines all bird species as sensitive. The Regulation provides for some exceptions to that ban, but not in respect of the movements or collections of pigeons or other birds of amateurs. That, Mr. Chairman, is the answer to the six questions received, three of which were not raised here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u7	Thank you, Minister. The secretary told me that it had indeed been made clear to Mrs Dierick, who apologized, that she could then become aware of the answers provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is good to hear that you are dealing with the problem. I think that to myself, and I believe that the other speakers agree with me. It is good that you monitor the situation properly and that you will take additional measures if necessary. After all, the avian flu is a very contagious virus. In summer, where the virus mainly deals with the summer species, such as gulls and terns, the virus mainly focuses on waterbirds in winter. That is something we must take into account. We should therefore be prepared, especially the recent case in Veurne, in the Sugar Park, if I am not mistaken. However, if I have understood you correctly, there would be no vaccination strategy, let alone mandatory vaccination, in the absence of an effective and efficient virus on the market. For pigeon sport it is very good that there is now finally a nuance in the regulation. However, there is still work to be done, if I have understood correctly, in relation to these safety zones, especially with the avian flu in mind. The implementation of this regulation without any nuance would, as I mentioned in my introduction, have meant the end of pigeon sport in Flanders and by extension in Wallonia. However, avian flu has been shown in scientific studies that pigeons are immune to the avian flu. With that in mind, I think it is only normal that pigeons should fall into a different category than the regular poultry.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer, including questions that have not been asked here. This is the case when a number of Members are absent. I am somewhat in agreement with the point you are making about vaccination. After all, we must be sure that it makes sense. I would therefore ask you to keep following up on the file. After all, this is a problem that concerns a great many people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u10	Question No 55026123C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is not applicable. Question No 55026802C by Mr Patrick Prévot is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u11	Minister, Dutch customs have found traces of chlorpyrifos on Moroccan oranges placed on the Dutch market. The Dutch authorities therefore withdrew these oranges from the market in February or March, according to the Rapid Alert System for Food and Feed of RASFF. Since 28 February 2022, the use of chlorpyrifos has been prohibited by EPA. The European Commission had banned its use by the end of January 2020 and set a three-month deadline for its total withdrawal from the distribution circuit. Are Moroccan oranges placed on the Belgian market and traces of chlorpyrifos were found there? Does the Dutch discovery affect Belgium? In the spring of 2021 there was a lot to do about fruit and vegetables from Morocco. Among other things, melons and peppers were returned because they contained prohibited products in the EU. Will Morocco's fruit and vegetables have been subject to stricter controls since then? How many checks have there been in the last year? How many controls led to the withdrawal of products by finding prohibited products? What happens to the withdrawn goods?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u12	Mrs Sneppe, oranges are imported from Morocco through Belgium. However, most of these oranges are not intended for the Belgian market but are sent to other Member States. Conversely, oranges from Morocco can also be imported into the EU via other Member States and then placed on the Belgian market. Since the ban on chlorpyrifos in the EU and the entry into force of the new maximum residue limits on 13 November 2020, no traces of chlorpyrifos were found on Moroccan oranges. The BFSA was informed by the Netherlands through RASFF of the presence of non-compliant oranges on the Belgian market. These oranges were identified by tracing and withdrawn from the market. The BFSA carries out effective import controls to ensure that imported products have the same level of safety as EU products and applies adjustments based on a refined risk assessment. EU legislation lays down maximum residue limits, allowing the correct use of pesticides in order to protect the health of consumers. Products from countries with significant and recurrent problems are subject to tight controls at the EU's borders. At present, only one product is present in this Regulation, in particular locust beans with the ethylene oxide product. There are currently insufficient cases of non-compliant other products from Morocco that justify tight controls. In 2021, 30 samples of food from Morocco were checked by the BFSA for pesticide residues. One batch of table olives contained chlorpyrifos with levels higher than the maximum residue limits. The product was withdrawn from the market and recalled to consumers. The message for the recall can be consulted on the website of the BFSA. Products which do not comply with the maximum residue limits and which are withdrawn from the market or recalled from the consumer shall be destroyed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for the full answer. It is good that the BFSA is doing its job, but we have been hearing such reports lately about too high residues on fruit and vegetables. I hope that there will be tight controls so that this does not end up in our food chain.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u14	Mr D'Amico told us that he could not come to ask his question, so it becomes irrelevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u15	Minister, the use of glyphosate products is authorised in Europe until 15 December 2022. In December 2019, a group of companies, including Bayer, Syngenta and Barclay, submitted an application for the renewal of glyphosate for use in Europe. This has formally launched the renewal procedure, which is still under way and is expected to be completed by the end of 2022. On 10 May, the European EFSA and ECHA agencies announced a change in the evaluation schedule. They will issue their final report in July 2023. The current authorisation will therefore be automatically extended on 15 December. The evaluation, which was to be completed by the end of 2022, will not be completed until the end of 2023, when Europe will have to decide whether or not to extend this authorisation. Everyone remembers the rebounds during the previous renewal process in 2017, and the position Belgium supported by Minister Ducrame by voting against renewal. Minister, how much glyphosate has been sold in Belgium over the last three years? How will the positioning of Belgium be built? Is there any consultation with the Ministers responsible for Health, Environment and Agriculture of the federal entity and regional entities? Do you have a calendar to know when the Belgian position will be stopped? In any case, you are not unaware that we will have interesting debates on the subject at the parliamentary level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u16	Minister, Mr de Laveleye has outlined the situation very thoroughly. It seems as if the scheme will automatically be renewed if we do not reach the deadline of 15 December 2022, when the licence expires. Could you give us a little more explanation on that? If that is true, how many months will the scheme be extended? In its opinion, the High Health Council called for 9561 not to wait for Europe, should there be any delay and to move faster to phasing-out in Belgium. To what extent does the advice of the High Health Council fit in with your planning?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Food Safety Authority, EFSA, has announced that it will not be in a position to finalize this autumn its assessment report on glyphosate, whose marketing authorisation is currently valid, as you have recalled, until 15 December 2022. This essential work for the herbicide renewal procedure will not be available, she says, until July 2023. As part of this renewal, the licensees established a dossier for the renewal of the substance and submitted it on time. The evaluation of this dossier by a group of four European Member States has already taken place. They submitted their evaluation report to EFSA in due course. EFSA then organised a public consultation during which it reported that it had received 368 replies and about 2,400 comments from experts from the Member States, giving rise to a file of approximately 3 000 pages. In the light of this new information available, EFSA intends to update its evaluation report by the end of September. In November or December, the experts from EFSA and the Member States will meet to discuss this new version. The Glyphosate Assessment Group of France, Hungary, the Netherlands and Sweden will then finalize its conclusions. Finally, EFSA will draw up its conclusions. The Authority communicated on 10 May on the deadlines for those stages. The conclusions will be published in July 2023. The conclusions of EFSA and the classification for ECHA's mixed products will serve as a basis for the European Commission's proposal on renewal of approval. The proposal will be put to the vote. As is the case with the position on the other active substances, the Department of Plant Protection and Mixing Substances of the Public Health Office will follow the discussion of the dossier at the meeting at European level in accordance with the ScoPAFF legislation. Based on the recent update of the deadline by EFSA, a vote on the renewal will not be possible, given the steps to be taken by the European Commission, by March 2024 at the earliest, which is a very optimistic planning.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u18	Minister, thank you for your answer, but it seems to me that you have mostly re-explained the process, which we have understood relatively well. Rather, my questions related to the extent of the use of glyphosate in Belgium. I don't think I heard you about that. It is not very serious, because I can receive the answer later. In any case, it is important to know to what extent our country is concerned. Then, how do the federal government - in this case, you for agriculture, the Minister of Health and the Minister of the Environment - and the federated entities organize themselves in this area? In addition, you have partly answered my third question, but I have not received an answer to two other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u19	Dear colleague, the figures for glyphosate have not been published. I propose to send them to you, because I do not know if we will still have an opportunity to meet before the parliamentary holidays. With regard to the organization of work between federal and federated entities, it traditionally follows the practices that are taking place in other discussions. In any case, I will give you more detailed answers in part.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u20	Minister, we take note that you will send the numbers to Ms. de Laveleye. If this is not enough for him, he will obviously be free to ask you again at the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u21	Mr President, Minister, I am sure that will be enough for me. I very much appreciate this proposal and thank you for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u22	We were able to follow the planning of Europe for a long time. I do not quite understand, however, that such a product is automatically granted a new provisional authorisation when the provisional authorisation granted five years ago by Europe expires at the end of this year and the EFSA is delayed. I fully understand that EFSA needs to do its work thoroughly. Europe must make a fist against such companies and not allow those products to be used until they are proven to be 100% safe. How will we proceed after 15 December 2022? If we apply the precautionary principle, we should not allow the final vote in March 2024. I hope you will take that concern when you talk to your European colleagues about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u23	For more than 10 years, Minister, the agricultural and horticultural sector has been promised an IT tool to provide producers with the right information on the sustainable use of plant protection products, the so-called PANAMA project. This tool should ensure that the current inefficient method of approving the recognition file is replaced until its publication. Today we are still working with PDF documents that are manually overtyped in our own system. This is time-consuming, the likelihood of errors is very high and often there is a period of one year between recognition and publication. For the sector, it is important to have a tool with the right and accurate information to record the sustainable application. Until this system is developed, the sector needs to make a digital link between Phytoweb and the sector's developed digital systems in order to store accurate information in an efficient way. Will you ensure that a clear system is put in place to ensure that producers have the right and up-to-date information? What is the timing of the PANAMA project? In the meantime, how will you reduce the time lag between the adoption of the dossier and the final publication in order to respond to the frustrations of the sector? Will you give instructions to the competent services to organise an IT technical consultation in the short term, so that Phytoweb can be linked to the systems developed by the sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u24	Mrs Muylle, as regards the future database for the management of applications for plant protection products and Phytoweb, the website on which the authorisations delivered are already made available to the public, I can inform you that these tools have been developed to handle applications for authorisations and to inform the users of plant protection products, especially farmers, correctly. So I certainly share your concern that the agricultural sector needs to be aware of all the details of these authorisations, and it is also with this aim that an increasingly advanced digitisation and computerisation is envisaged. As far as I am concerned, the information on Phytoweb is sufficient to inform all those involved correctly and fully. Phytoweb is therefore rightly regarded as the reference in that respect. Third parties use the information on Phytoweb for further dissemination and vulgarisation, whether for payment or not. On the current website a file with limited data is provided, which can be uploaded into external systems. However, a number of third parties use more data than those available in this file. They retrieve that data on their own initiative via the search function in our database. We fully support the use of all our data in external systems, to disseminate as much correct information as possible. I will therefore make every effort to facilitate the services of these third parties in order to provide even better information to the agricultural sector. The development of the new system therefore provides for a module that will enable all useful data to be shared directly. However, the development of this module, which will allow third parties to easily use all our data, requires additional resources in addition to the development of PANAMA itself. I have logically focused primarily on the development of PANAMA. I share your concern that it will take us a long time to develop such new systems. The authorisation procedures for plant protection products have become increasingly complex and demanding over the years, thus requiring a very extensive computer system, which also explains the longer development period. However, good progress has been made recently. This year, the development of the module will start to make the underlying data directly available to these third parties. I have good hopes that she will be available in the course of next year. Consultations with the sector on technical aspects are planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u25	Minister, we share the same objectives, as I understand it. I can also tell from your answer that you want to do something about it. It is indeed very complex. It is important to share accurate data and correct information, especially when it comes to sustainable applications. I also understand that there will be some movement in the coming year and that you will need additional resources in addition to PANAMA. I understand you have to bet PANAMA first. I am confident that effective steps will be taken this year. If it isn't, you'll hear me again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u26	Mr President, Minister, every year our country grants marketing exemptions for pesticides banned at European level. In addition to the neonicotinoids (imidacloprid and clothianidine), these are mancozeb, beta-cyfluthrin and phosmet. A marketing derogation for PONCHO BETA was also accepted, introduced by BAYER. This product contains two substances banned at European level: the active substance clothianidine and the active substance beta-cyfluthrin. The European Food Safety Authority has identified the dangers associated with the production and use of beta-cyfluthrin, warned of an "unacceptable risk to workers who load and sow beet seeds treated with beta-cyfluthrin" and a "high risk to residents, non-target arthropods and aquatic organisms" of an "unacceptable risk to operators and workers" which uses it on greenhouse tomatoes. In addition, EU legislation has been updated on the active substance phosmet, which has been no longer authorised since 1 February due, inter alia, to a "high acute and chronic risk to consumers". Mr Minister, have any further requests for derogations been submitted to your administration for the year 2022 for these substances prohibited by European legislation: mancozeb, Clothianidine, beta-cyfluthrin, phosmet? If so, what decisions have been taken by the Accreditation Committee under the current legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u27	Minister, last week the proposal for the new pesticide reduction regulation was presented in the European Commission by Vice-President Frans Timmermans and Commissioner for Health and Food Security Mrs Kyriakides. We urgently need ambitious measures to reduce the use and risk of chemical and synthetic pesticides, to combat the biodiversity and health crisis and to ensure sustainable production of healthy food. Belgian civil society has therefore sent a number of letters to the relevant ministers, including you. It calls for the necessary steps to be taken in Belgium to restore biodiversity and prevent damage to health, water and the environment by pesticides and for Belgium to support at European level the objectives of the Farm to Fork Strategy to aim for at least 50% reduction in the use and risk of chemical pesticides by 2030. The European Commission proposes to reduce use by half across the Union, with a ban on the use of pesticides near schools, hospitals, parks and playgrounds. This is an average reduction, some countries should do more and some countries less. However, the minimum is 35%. In this case, Belgium should reduce its use by half. Our country is in the questionable European top three of the largest pesticide consumers. We are taking small steps forward here, but it is too slow and insufficient. Soon you will come up with a new action plan on pesticide use 2023-2027. I have a number of questions in this regard. Did you receive the letter from midfield? What is the state of play with regard to the preparation of a new action plan on pesticides 2023-2027? What position will our country take on Mr Timmermans' and Mrs Kyriakides' proposal? On 15 December, the European recognition of the weedkiller is due to expire. Belgium has the opportunity to vote against an extension, as your predecessor Ducarme did in 2017. Will our country be consistent and vote against this extension again? Will it encourage other countries to do the same?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u28	Mr President, Minister, last Wednesday the European Commission proposed to the various Member States a binding objective of restoring ecosystems which must be achieved through national plans. In this context, it suggests a halving of pesticides used by 2030. This measure is, in our view, essential for ensuring food security and preserving the health of our people, but also for better combating climate change. The European Commissioner for Health said that "excessive use of pesticides poses a major risk to human health and kills pollinators responsible for most of the food we eat". This will allow each country to set its own targets based on its initial situation and hence on how it uses pesticides. But if a State fails to make sufficient efforts to achieve the objectives set by the Commission, the latter could put pressure on that State. In this context, I ask myself the Belgian Government's ambition in this regard because, on 25 May 2022, when some of my colleagues asked you about the study carried out by Pesticide Action Network (PAN) that 34% of our fruit contains residues of harmful pesticides, you then refuted this situation by speaking "of dishonest information by some green lobbies". This has of course been refuted by the NGO itself for whom you have "misleaded the public and the Federal Parliament about the threat posed by pesticides in Belgian fruits and vegetables which are the most contaminated in Europe". Minister, what follow-up will you give to the European Commission's proposal? Do you, like some agriculture ministers, fear that it could compromise farm productivity? How do you intend to achieve the objectives set by the Commission? Have you ever thought about a work schedule? In the positive, would it be binding? What are currently the avenues we have and on which you are working today to increase our use of alternatives to pesticides? I am thinking in particular of genomic techniques. Can the controls carried out by the AFSCA be further increased? What is the status of the pesticide exemptions currently in force in Belgium, ideally broken down by type of pesticides and by duration of derogation? Finally, do you intend to ask for further derogations in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, for many years my administration has been proactively managing applications for exemptions and authorisations for plant protection products. This requires extensive support for potential applicants. This includes meetings, working groups, regular meetings with applicants from institutions in agricultural sectors such as testing centres, auctions, pilot centres and producer associations. At these meetings, the problems are discussed and possible solutions are analysed, so that in some cases the way of derogation is abandoned in favour of a conventional authorisation, where possible. In other cases, where approval of an exemption file appears unlikely, either because of known danger, lack of data to allow a minimum assessment of the application, or in the absence of an alternative, my administration shall inform the applicant accordingly. Finally, for the 120-day exemptions that have been granted, I can assure you that Article 53 of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 is scrupulously followed, for all such authorities granted by my administration. Information on these derogations is public. They are all communicated on the site of Phytoweb. For the year 2022, on today's date, my administration has not received any request for an exemption under Article 53 of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 for a formulation containing the active substance mancozeb. The development of NAPAN's 2023-2027 programme has entered the federal, Walloon and Brussels levels into a phase of political finalization. At Flemish level, consultations are still under way; the 2023-2027 programme is expected to be adopted by the end of November. At the federal level, the drafts were modified based on comments and suggestions received. These preliminary projects are currently being analysed at the level of the various firms. The strategic committee chairing this work has already met twice in June and plans to continue work in July and August. The adoption of joint regional and federal projects is planned for September. The Royal Decree is expected to be adopted in October at the Interdepartmental Extended Environment Conference for NAPAN. The ambition of the project depends in particular on the autumn budget conclave. It is important to keep actively looking for alternatives. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that support for scientific research for the presentation of these alternatives falls within the exclusive competence of the Regions. Belgium's general position on the draft regulation submitted by the European Commission on 22 June will be prepared for the July Agriculture and Fisheries Council, where the draft will be presented by the Commission. The draft regulation will then be negotiated with the European Parliament through the European co-decision procedure. This is expected to take some time. Mrs Jiroflée, I refer you to my previous answer for your question on satsumas.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u30	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'm sorry, I have a little trouble again, because my questions only received partial answers. You made it very clear that by 2022 there had been no requests for exemption for mancozeb. I also asked for the other active substances, such as betacyfluthrin and phosmet, which have recently been identified as representing unacceptable risks for workers in the beet sector and in the tomato sector. There, I did not receive an answer. But in a broader way, as you know, I have requested the exemption files from your administration. I'm still peeling them, because they're thick enough. It's extremely interesting to see how your administration works. We still see, however, that some routines are put in place, with copy and paste requests that appear in the response folder. In my view, certain types of questions are probably given insufficiently demanding answers. But we are not going to have the big debate now. On the other hand, it seems to me particularly important to stress - and this has been said by my colleagues, and we were told a few days ago again - that we must reduce pesticide use by 50%. I find it worrying that in Belgium we remain among the top countries that grant the most exemptions for products that are banned at European level because they are dangerous. Even if we can say that the administration is doing its job, I have no concern with that; there is really a cultural change that must be accompanied at all levels, with the people who need these products for their practice – namely farmers – but also with our administrations. In our political vision, we absolutely must emancipate ourselves from our dependence on these pesticides for our agriculture. This is an absolutely central issue for our health, the health of our biodiversity and the pollution problem. I hope that in the two years that we have left with this Parliament, we will be able to be more ambitious, and that the NAPAN which we were able to debate in committee a few months ago will still benefit from this summer to strengthen with the new European lines. In our view, it was not yet quite ambitious enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u31	Minister, I have not yet heard a clear position on the proposal by Mr Timmermans and Mrs Kyriakides. Pesticides are dangerous substances and must be treated as such. In that context, we will continue to follow that closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answers and I am pleased to see that there are guidelines for moving forward in the coming months. We will re-examine you in due course. Still, there is a real urgency because the government has been legally obliged since 2011 to phase out these most toxic pesticides, when alternatives exist. However, contrary to the commitments we have made, we see that the presence of pesticides is constantly increasing in Belgium thanks in particular to the derogation system. You are telling us that there is a great deal of publicity on this subject and that, to date, no demand has been made on this subject, except that it is only one harmful substance, whereas a whole range of pesticide varieties may be the subject of requests for exemption. So I remain cruelly hungry about it. On the other hand, what is true is that producers should be supported in their transition to pesticide-free production. You refer the ball back to the federated entities by arguing that they are the ones who are competent to support studies on alternatives, but here, I think the health issue is so important that it deserves a consultation between the federal and the federated entities. In this regard, we have an interdepartmental Health Conference that can be mobilized for this. I would like to make a request to you, because that is really what will allow us to have ambitious objectives at European level and not to lag behind, as we are today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u33	Mr President, I should like to point out that one of the questions has actually been addressed to Mr Vandenbroucke. This matter was referred to Mr. Clarinval. However, Mr Vandenbroucke finally replied. However, I note that it is still on the agenda. The second question, which is old, has been updated following the Minister's response to the plenary session. There is a problem of updating and, in so doing, the questions are repeated twice. Having said that, my question is a little long, but I will try to respect my two-minute speaking time. Minister, on Wednesday 25 May, in plenary, you mentioned the misleading and dishonest remarks...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u34	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u35	Intellectually dishonest. I take note of your comment. I would therefore like to say that on Wednesday, 25 May, in plenary session, you referred to the deceptive and dishonest intellectual statements that Pesticide Action Network Europe (PAN Europe) would make available in its report "Forbidden fruit". We felt it necessary to revisit these exchanges. Indeed, a debate in plenary, only a few hours after the release of the report, would have been a little restrictive for you and for us. PAN's work focuses on pesticides that are most dangerous to our health and environment and fall under the category of "substitution applicants". According to the European Recommendation, if a non-chemical or chemical alternative exists, the substance concerned cannot be authorised on the market. This obligation should therefore, had it been scrupulously complied with, have led to the gradual reduction and subsequent elimination of the use of these substances, and hence their residues in food. However, the report shows a growing presence of these substances. Your response was based on the fact that the residue levels found in the samples tested were below the maximum residue limits (MRLs) and therefore there was no risk. In doing so, you have removed the fact that these substances should have been substituted and you have not addressed the concern about the cocktail effect which is obviously not taken into account in MRLs. You also mentioned that Belgium would hold its European ranking because of the amount of molecules tested per sample by AFSCA. However, the report shows that it is indeed the significant quantity of plant protection products containing candidates for substitution authorised in Belgium which is problematic and not the method of analysis of the AFSCA which is doing its job properly. I would like to point out that there are 44 authorised substances on the list that are candidates for substitution. Mr Minister, on the basis of a more in-depth reading of the Pesticide Action Network report, do you come to conclusions that are different from those that you were able to share in plenary? In relation to the requirement for a comparative assessment between the substitute and the alternatives, can you tell to what extent this assessment is done adequately? How many plant protection products containing one or more of these 44 candidates for substitution are currently allowed in Belgium? Since 2015, how many of these substitution cases have been counted following the conduct of a preparatory evaluation? Under the "Farm to Fork" strategy, Member States are expected to reduce pesticide use by 50%. Do you think we're really going to make it by 2030? What are the means used by the federal government to analyze the potential dangers of cocktail effects in our consumer products? We talked to your colleague, Minister Vandenbroucke, a few days ago. Finally, there is the question of NAPAN, but you have already dealt with it in the previous answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u36	Minister, Mr de Laveleye has already outlined the problem very fully. I have two additional questions. We are really worried about the cocktail effect of the different substances we get. In the meantime, there are studies at European level, but they do not take into account the cocktail effect, which we are concerned about. One can look at the effect of the various substances in combination on the thyroid gland, but then only one hormonal gland is considered, and not the whole hormonal system. That's exactly what substances like cyprodinyl and tebuconazole act on. Those substances have hormone-distorting effects. The scientific community, especially the endocrinologists, is really worried about that. They warn us that we simply cannot get those substances back in. If these substances have been on a list of products to be replaced for 11 years, it is time to get started. Firstly, how are we going to deal with the residues of hormone disrupting substances in our food? How come they're still in our food? Secondly, how did you react to the letter from PAN Europe? Did you answer that? Have you responded to the demand for an immediate ban on the 12 most toxic substances and the replacement of all those substances by safer alternatives by 2030 by PAN Europe, Progrès Belgium and VELT?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u37	Ladies, the publication of NAPs refers to the active substances known as substances for which substitution is envisaged. Products containing active substances belonging to this category must be evaluated against a benchmark. The NAP Europe report draws attention to the presence of residues from a selection of active substances. I trust my administration with regard to risk management in this area. We did not wait for the NAP Europe report to take into account the presence of residues in consumer products. Currently, each active substance taken separately is subject to a risk analysis for the consumer. For example, data from monitoring program measures show that residue levels are often low and well below maximum residue limits (MRLs). These limits are not safety standards but limit values below which the residue levels will certainly remain if the plant protection products are used in accordance with their authorisation. We are therefore talking about very wide safety margins, taking into account also the consumption of different foodstuffs. Concerning the cumulative exposure of the consumer to pesticide residues (the cocktail effect), a methodology is short of development at European level by EFSA. The mere fact of detecting several pesticide residues in certain foodstuffs is therefore not in itself a reason for giving in to panic. This does not mean that there is a higher risk to the consumer. The number of residues that may be present on a foodstuff is not a reliable indicator of risk to the consumer. The European methodology was already implemented in 2020 and 2021 by EFSA for an assessment of the cumulative risk of pesticide residues having a possible effect on the nervous system and possible long-term effects on the thyroid gland. This was achieved through monitoring of residues collected by several EU Member States, including Belgium, during the period 2014-2016. Based on this first cumulative risk assessment, there is no reason to worry and there is no need to adjust limits for individual substances or adapt authorisations. In other words, the current knowledge of cumulative consumer exposure does not require further action. Meanwhile, at European level, new approaches have been taken to also examine cumulative effects on other bodies. In order to speed up the process, the European Commission - in collaboration with EFSA - has developed an action plan that will give priority to pesticides and bodies presenting the highest possible risk. Further information on this action plan and the status of the cumulative risk assessment of pesticide residues in general is available on the European Commission's website. Considering that research on the cumulative risk to consumers of residues of plant protection products in food and that the development of harmonised methodologies is mainly carried out and coordinated at European level, i.e. the level at which the limits of the Union are established, I do not currently see a need for additional initiatives at the federal level. Agriculture and the environment are also the responsibility of the Regions, which are represented on the Committee for the Approval of Pesticides for Agricultural Use and report at its meetings on the possible existence of non-chemical methods of prevention or control, as well as on their economic and practical characteristics. If the Regions conclude that such methods are effective, the application for authorisation of the product containing an active substance that is being considered for substitution will obviously be refused, Madame de Laveleye. In addition, Regulation EC 1107/2009 identified substances for substitution, but also another category: low-risk active substances, the number of which is limited. The federal government has taken steps to expand the number as much as possible. In order to inform Belgian users of this possibility, the Phytoweb site takes over the approvals of these basic substances as well as the acceptable phytosanitary uses. The Authority currently does not identify cyprodinil and tebuconazole as hormone disrupters. Products are currently being evaluated at European level. In 2020 cyprodinil was established 119 times for 697 analyses. In one of those analyses the MRL was exceeded. In 2021, cyprodinil was established 101 times for 713 analyses. However, all those analyses were in compliance with the MRL. In 2020, tebuconazole was established 99 times for 684 analyses, each of which was in compliance with the MRL for tebuconazole. In 2021, tebuconazole was determined 104 times for 717 analyses. At those measurements, 2 analyses were higher than the MRL. As a reminder, only the exceedance of the legal maximum residue limits indicates a non-conformity, which means that a product may not be sold and used at all. In this case, a risk assessment shall be carried out to determine whether the exceedance presents a risk to human or animal health. A product recall will be imposed in the case of a risk. Selder was recalled for which the tebuconazole residues were higher than the MRL, as this could pose a risk to health. The nature and extent of non-monotone dose response, for which there would be no safe exposure level, are always the subject of debates and controversy among scientists. The current opinion of European experts is that there is a non-monotone dose response phenomenon for pesticides. In view of the measures for hormone disrupting substances in the European legislation on plant protection products Regulation 1107/2009, no additional action is foreseen under the NAPED.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answer. I keep a feeling of "bad" - maybe that's the best word - in relation to an element. I understand the logic. You explain a whole series of things for procedures and standards. But in the meantime, when Europe decides many years ago to designate a whole series of products as candidates for substitution, Europe has large administrations that come to the conclusion that it is necessary for our health and/or our environment. After several years, 44 of them are still given access in Belgium, out of 55. I think it's huge. It would be understood whether this concerned a small part of the products for which alternatives have not yet been found. We must support our farmers. But 44 out of 55, it's massive! It's not just your responsibility. You said it. The Ministers of the Regions share it. We need to support alternatives. You don't have all the answers in your hands, of course, and this European legislation is long before you. But I come back to the conclusion I made earlier: when are we going to realize that we need to go much faster? Europe is pushing us behind. Our health pushes us behind our backs. The collapse of ecosystems pushes us in the back and I do not understand that we are not already several kilometers ahead. It is very good that Europe is currently working on the cocktail effect and cumulative risk. I almost want to say it's almost time. I would point out that yesterday a new report from the European Environment Agency came out. This report deals with the relationship between cancer and the environment and specifically states the danger of cumulative risk. He says to be careful, that we are ill-equipped, and that further progress is needed on this issue. So I'm thinking maybe there's a momentum, even if it comes very late again. I hope that Belgium will be hyperactive in the search for methodologies for the cocktail effect. I think we are missing out on major problems that need to be solved. We are still talking about 10% of our cancers, at the very least, that are linked to pollution. I think it's time to wake up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u39	Minister, you did not say whether you responded to the question of Plan Europe and the other NGOs, but we will provide them with the answer you gave here today so that they are aware of the follow-up to their investigation. You rightly refer to the EFSA study on the cocktail effect. The methodology is under development. If we are well informed, the authority thinks it will be done by 2030. That's a long time. You also noted that cyprodinil and tebuconazole are not for the time being identified as hormone disrupting but are still being investigated. In that regard, too, I remain hungry. Our oldest sons were born in 2006, when REACH legislation was in its infancy in Europe. They have now become 16 and will have to wait until they are grown up and start working on children themselves, before we take really big steps with regard to substances that have been known to cause problems for years. You say that there is a discussion among scientists about the non-monotone dose response. In endocrinologists, however, there is no such discussion: they are 100% convinced that there are problems with the nervous system and with the thyroid gland. The EFSA study indeed measures the effect of all those substances on the nervous system and the thyroid, but its effect on the entire hormonal system, which is disturbed according to endocrinologists, is assessed too little or too slowly. You are right to say that a large part of the use of pesticides is a matter for the regions. Europe believes that we need to implement the farm-to-fork strategy without delay, and Belgium may need to reduce the use of pesticides by more than 50%. We will not then be able to shift the approach solely to the regions. The placing on the market of certain products and derogations from them is a federal competence and we will have to strengthen our ambition. In this sense, you will not be surprised that our group is disappointed because the excellent instruments available in NAPAN and NAPED are not being used. We think that's a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u40	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Depoorter's 55028193C will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u41	Minister, quite recently it became known that the court had invaded a number of horse stables in the province of Antwerp as part of an investigation into large-scale horse fraud. Endangered species would also be investigated. Among other things, there would have been tampering with passports and microchips of horses. There is a suspicion that fraudsters have given certain horses a different destination, e.g. by making horses for slaughter from horses for slaughter in order to make money from them. This is not a good thing for food safety, because it is no longer possible to find out which medicines have been given to the supposed horses for slaughter and whether the waiting times have been respected. The question is whether meat from such horses has entered the food chain. What is the state of the investigation? In what way is the BFSA involved? What role has it played in that? Has a reconstruction of the facts happened yet? Did meat from these horses end up in the food chain? If yes, in which products? In the past, horse meat fraud has also been committed. How many times has that been established in our country? Is the problem of changing chips and forgery of passports known to other species? What initiatives will you take to avoid such situations in the future and make the system waterproof?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u42	Mrs Gijbels, this file is in the hands of the public prosecutor and is covered by the obligation of professional secrecy. I cannot therefore give you a complete answer to these questions. The discovery of this case is the result of a series of investigations by the national search unit of the BFSA. It is the responsibility of the BFSA to make communications that are essential to protect the consumer. However, it is up to the court to decide whether or not to communicate on the ground of the case. In a judicial or administrative investigation it is never certain that the situation has been fully defined, but the agents of the BFSA have collected a number of elements under the direction of a investigating judge that I cannot further develop here, as explained earlier. It is up to the investigating judge to establish this and, if necessary, to communicate with the Public Prosecutor. I can only tell you that if it were established that meat from this trade was in circulation, the BFSA would be obliged to inform the population and to withdraw this meat from the market. This problem of fraud in the traceability of horses has been known for many years by the services of the BFSA. For example, a trial is currently taking place in Marseille against a number of French, Belgian and Dutch suspects, following a long investigation started in 2012 by the agents of the BFSA. The press, in particular the French, gives a detailed report on this process. It is mainly horse meat, although most economic speculation can be affected by attempts at fraud. The problem of the re-destination of animals only arises in horses. Some officials of the National Investigation Unit of the BFSA have become experts at European level. It is under their impulse and with their knowledge that European legislation and controls are becoming more effective throughout the European Union. Of course, it would be counterproductive to explain in detail the research methods of our researchers, but I can assure you that the situation is developing positively throughout Europe under the impetus of the agents of the BFSA. At European level, it has already been decided to exclude horses only because of the use of certain veterinary medicinal products from slaughter. As a result, fewer horses will be considered non-food producing, thus also reducing fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u43	Minister, I fully understand that you cannot express your views on the substance of the matter, since the matter is still in the hands of the public prosecutor at the moment. I hope, however, that when there is a ruling and when it is clear what has happened, you will come to Parliament to explain it, because it is important that we are aware of it. I have looked into this matter and I understand that some expertise has been developed in Belgium in the field of horse meat fraud. It is therefore important that you inform us as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u44	Mr President, Minister, champagne bottles containing the hard drug MDMA would once again have been circulated. In February, the food agency already reported such a case, in which intoxications were found in the Netherlands and Germany. This led to seven serious cases of illness and one dead in Germany and four cases of illness in the Netherlands. The bottles were purchased online via an unknown website. No incidents were reported in Belgium at the time. There was no indication that these bottles would also be present on the Belgian market. A second case has recently emerged, involving bottles with a different lottery number. Even now, according to the Food Agency, no incidents have been reported in Belgium, but the bottles would have been sold via several outlets in Belgium, in addition to online sales. Minister, can you give a detailed overview of the state of play? How did the information chain go, both nationally and internationally? Which countries are involved? How much MDMA was found? How toxic is this dose? Do you have any more information on possible incidents? What role does the BFSA play in this case? How is cooperation with police and justice going? How is international cooperation going? How is the research on how MDMA ended up in the bottles? How can this still not be explained since the first case in February? At which outlets in Belgium were the lottery tickets sold? Is there an overview of this? Can the consumer find this and where? What webshops are involved? Did Belgian consumers buy these products? If so, can you explain this? Will further samples be carried out? Is it your intention to have other bottles of this brand screened or bottles of another brand? Is it excluded that other food products also contain harmful substances such as MDMA? How many reports has the consumer hotline already received from the BFSA on this issue? Can you give an overview of this? How many international reports have there been?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u45	Minister, after intoxications in the Netherlands and Germany, it is the turn of Belgium to be affected by a curious phenomenon: the presence of ecstasy in bottles of champagne from Moët & Chandon's Imperial Ice range. The Federal Agency for Food Chain Safety (AFSCA) therefore warns consumers about this liquid MDMA, which would have the characteristics of not containing bubbles, having a reddish brown colour and smelling anise. The Agency does not exclude that other bottles, regardless of the brand, may contain this dangerous synthetic drug. Minister, at the time of this question, no known incident was identified as a result of this phenomenon. And is that still the case? Unless I was mistaken, the AFSCA release did not specify the amount of MDMA in the three-litre bottles. Would you be aware of this amount in order to better assess its dangerousness? Have you contacted your Dutch and German counterparts to work together to discover the origin of these voluntary poisonings? Whether it is the Netherlands, Germany or Belgium, do food chain security agencies issue leads? Which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u46	Mr President, this is another cocktail that we are going to talk about here! Mrs Gijbels, Mrs Creemers, Mr Prévot, the management of the fight against the serious and organized crime of the unit of public health and environmental crime of the federal police has informed the National Investigation Unit of the BFSA that several bottles, originating from two lots which are the subject of an investigation into the facts of February, had been marketed in Belgium. As a precautionary measure, the BFSA informed the public about this, as it concerns a product that can be stored for a long time and because bottles could still be stored in cellars. For more information on the progress of the information chain and the countries concerned, please refer to my colleague, the Minister of the Interior, who is responsible for combating serious and organised crime. Since these are drugs, and this is not the responsibility of the BFSA, the BFSA intervenes as a means of transmitting information to consumers. In addition, the BFSA is willing to provide technical support if requested by the federal police. Our services work together regularly whenever required and this cooperation with the police is very good. Cooperation has even increased since the secondment of an inspector from the National Investigation Unit to the management of the fight against the serious and organised crime of the Public Health and Environmental Crime Unit. This is clearly a drug investigation which is therefore in the hands of the police forces, both with us and in the other Member States concerned. As regards the concentration found, its toxicity, the ongoing investigation and any further steps in the fight against drugs, I would like to refer you to my colleague, the Minister for the Interior. It was found that bottles of two lots concerned were sold in Belgium, but not all bottles of these lots are affected by this incident. As the drug was found in a foodstuff, a press release was published on the AFSCA consumer website with a description of the product concerned and more information on ecstasy, MDMA. This press release was also disseminated via social media such as Facebook. With the information contained in the press release, the consumer can easily check whether the bottles he purchased are affected by checking the batch numbers and paying attention to the characteristics that indicate the presence of MDMA, liquid ecstasy. The AFSCA's mission is to warn consumers by giving them the means to recognize the bottles being handled and that is exactly what the Agency has done. As of June 9, 2022, the AFSCA Consumer Contact Point did not receive any consumer questions or complaints regarding this issue. Since February, this was a notification from the Netherlands and, this time, a notification from Germany. Given that drug trafficking is the responsibility of the police, the AFSCA is not concerned with the follow-up of the international notification. I would therefore also refer you to my colleague, Mr Verlinden, on this point. Finally, I am not aware of the existence of cases in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u47	In particular, Minister, I understand that the question will have to be asked again to Minister Verlinden. I will do so, so that we can follow up on everything. It is a little confusing, because it is also about food safety, but I understand that the matter does not fall within your competence when drugs are involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u48	Mr Minister, I thank you for your reassuring response to the fact that there are currently no reports in Belgium and that the AFSCA remains, as it is systematically, available to the federal police in case of need.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think the BFSA has communicated well and quickly in this, so I would like to pay my compliments. I have put questions about the auto-control system, but I understand that the manufacturer of the champagne concerned could not help or was not involved, at least it seems that. Those questions will lapse. In any case, I think it is good to come back to this after the investigation, so that we can evaluate how the cooperation has gone. Maybe there's something left to learn from that. In this one it seems that the BFSA did everything it could.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u50	Minister, European standards do not automatically apply to the products we import. However, it would be entirely logical for European consumers to be assured that the production methods of imported products are the same as in Europe, particularly in terms of animal welfare, antibiotic use and plant protection products. We have already talked a lot about European standards today. Sometimes we would like them to go further, but these standards are among the best in the world. We can be proud of that. However, the European Union continues to import large quantities of pesticides containing active substances not authorised at European level because of their toxicity to humans and the environment. European consumers therefore find these toxic substances in imported food products. The Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain is doing a huge job on this subject, but not everything can be absolutely controlled and the weight rests too much on our Agency. In addition, so-called mirror measures would have a positive impact on our Belgian farmers. The level of requirement would be the same for Belgian and imported products, which would significantly reduce unfair competition. It seems strange to ask our farmers to be excellent in their practice and to put them in competition with farmers in other countries who can use products to which they do not have access. On 13 June, the European Agriculture Ministers took a stand on this issue, on the basis of a report by the European Commission confirming the legal feasibility of introducing mirror measures. It seems that almost all ministers support the conclusions of this report and agree that the European Union should act to bring its internal objectives into line with its external trade policy. But opinions seem to differ on the way forward: some of the ministers concerned argue for mirror measures to be imposed whenever necessary, while others are less willing and would favour multilateral negotiations within the World Trade Organisation (WTO) or the inclusion of specific clauses in free trade agreements to be negotiated with partners. Minister, your Walloon counterpart has announced that we should not sell to us what is forbidden to produce: "In order to protect our consumers, while supporting our local agriculture, I defend this principle that should prevail in all trade agreements." What position did Belgium take on the mirror measures on 13 June? Do you support the inclusion of the ban on the export of unauthorised pesticides at European level with a view to creating coherent legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u51	Mrs de Laveleye, I confirm that I support, and on behalf of Belgium in the European Council, the introduction of mirror clauses. I am very much in favour of these measures. In Belgium's view, the introduction of these measures aimed at ensuring the reciprocity of production methods is interesting, and it deserves a thorough examination. The introduction of mirror clauses reinforces the standards required for goods from abroad, thereby limiting the sometimes unfair competition faced by European farmers. Sanitary and phytosanitary standards in Europe, based on scientific knowledge, are among the highest in the world. Belgium wants an analysis that takes into account, in particular, the protection of health, the environment and production, as well as legal aspects. In the context of the objectives of the Green Deal and the "Farm to Fork" strategy, Belgium considers it necessary for imported products to meet minimum environmental and health standards, and within the framework of the WTO. WTO procedures indicate that a restriction on the import of food can only be made on the basis of scientific evidence of a risk to the consumer, otherwise it would be considered a protectionist measure. It is in this sense that it is important to encourage third countries towards the harmonisation of production and use conditions, making them as safe for workers and the environment as they are in Europe. With regard to the subject of your second question, my colleague the Minister of the Environment has so far not consulted me on the subject. However, this proposal is highly likely to have no impact on the use of these banned products throughout the world in Europe. Indeed, local environmental conditions generate distinct pests affecting crops, requiring different protection solutions. It is important to recall that 85% of products manufactured in Belgium are exported, of which 70% are to Japan. In addition, the proposed legislation could simply relocate Belgian production. Let us not forget that Belgian production represents a total of 4,630 full-time quality jobs in Belgium, including 1,400 direct jobs. We must also take into account the surplus trade balance of about EUR 1 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u52	Minister, thank you for your answer. I had no doubt, but it is true that it is sometimes difficult to follow European debates. I also thank you for confirming that you supported the lens of the mirror measurements. We seem to be perfectly aligned on this issue. Let us hope that Europe will succeed as soon as possible, thanks in particular to your support and that of Belgium. For export, I understand that we are not yet at the stage of government consultation. I hope that the initiatives that are being taken can succeed with the support of the whole government. We must harmonise our practices internationally and not continue to think that Europe, even if it is more ambitious than the others, is an isolated island. In reality, it is confronted with the agricultural practices of the rest of the planet. I hope we go in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u53	Mr Minister, yesterday morning the Association for Ecological Life and Gardening (VELT) published its screening of thirty garden centres and DIY cases, which she visited in recent weeks. The VELT members presented themselves as individuals looking for a solution against weeds in a driveway, for example. In doing so, they assumed that less risky, non-chemical methods of combating weeds would be put forward in the garden centres, that preventive measures would also be taken to avoid weeds, and that the risks of pesticide use to health and the environment would be properly informed. Pesticide producers often say that their products have limited health risks, provided that the user applies the safety measures strictly. Those who take the test will find out that they are not. 86 percent of garden centers advise immediately to use a weedkiller, while alternative methods are hardly covered. 60% of the garden centres consider the safety measures mentioned on the packaging to be superfluous. Let me give you some examples, Minister. Anyone who asks in a garden center whether he or she should pay attention when using such a product will get the answer that it is all safe. The answer to the question of wearing gloves is that it is not necessary. Nor does it seem necessary to wear protective clothing. When consumers notice that there are children and a dog walking around, the reaction is to let them play. On the question of whether to be careful with the sewer well, sellers claim that they are all ecological products and that they do not need to be taken into account. That's not what's agreed with the garden centers, I think. Trained people would be employed; consumers could go to a call centre to which reference should be made; posters prepared by the government should be displayed in the rack with pesticides. These do not appear to hang up in 70% of cases. I am disappointed and outraged that, five years after I organized the same mystery shopping for VELT, there is no improvement. Mr Minister, hopefully someone in your cabinet has read the findings of VELT and you can respond to them. I also hope that you yourself will plan additional controls before they are announced in the National Action Plan for the Reduction of Pesticides (NAPAN). In 2024 and 2026 there would be a number of calibration moments. That approach for garden centres and DIY matters does not change in the preliminary draft of the new NAPAN, which we could read. Representatives of the Public Health Office, with which we were able to discuss in our committee, defended the approach adopted by the garden centres, while the facts show that it is not enough. Are you planning on adjusting? Why is that, or why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u54	Mrs Creemers, you are asking an important question. The use of plant protection products by the hobby gardener should be regulated. I see several aspects of the need for access to information, namely advice on the solution to a defined problem, advice on the correct use of the product and advice on the protection of the user. We need to find the best solution with the distribution sector so that the advice reaches the customer. Several solutions already exist, such as access to the call centre or, for certain specialised shops, qualified retailers in the shops. The regions are competent to provide information on the alternatives that the sellers can provide, while the shops are controlled by the DG Environment of the Public Health Office, which is the responsibility of Minister Khattabi of the Environment. I have faith in her. However, I will make her aware of the importance of the work of her inspection service, which will undoubtedly bear fruit.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic838x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your concern. Of course, we are going to work with your fellow Minister, Mr Khattabi, for more checks so that they can be confirmed or deactivated. The report, which does not actually show any improvement compared to five years ago, must encourage you and your colleagues to tighten up the plan and become more ambitious. We have said this a few times. There's gonna be a lot of work for the IKWs next summer. The report needs to wake us up. The situation has still not improved in the garden centres. There's a lot of work to be done.
