ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u1	Question No 55027137C by Mr Michel De Maegd is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u2	Madam President, Secretary of State, this is the only question I will ask orally, without referring to the text because it seems important to me. Indeed, the long-awaited visit of Michelle Bachelet should take place shortly. It is important not only for our country, but also for all human rights defenders. The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights should therefore visit Xinjiang province. This is not a matter of any Chinese province, as our assembly has reported crimes against humanity and even a serious risk of genocide in progress just a few months ago. Some accused us of spreading false truths, but we have always replied that if China really had nothing to blame, it could open the doors of that province to us for an unhindered visit by United Nations experts. Secretary of State, what are the specific objectives of Michelle Bachelet's visit? What is the programme of the visit? How long will it last? Who will be the participants? Will there be independent investigators who can shed light on the ultra-repressive policy of the camps where one to three million innocent Uyghurs are reportedly being held? Has China guaranteed unimpeded access to the High Commissioner on Chinese territory, and especially in Xinjiang? It will be recalled that this question of "without hindrance" was a condition that was raised by the United Nations a few months ago. Is this condition still appropriate today? If this visit actually takes place, it is extremely important that our country, as a human rights defender on the international stage, can demand a real fact-finding visit to make all the transparency on what is happening in Xinjiang with regard to the policy of repression of the Uighurs? What is our country's position? What have we asked the Human Rights Council? Will the publication of the report finally take place? Can Belgium make it clear that it refuses a protocol visit to decorate, to shake hands, and that it demands real results in terms of justice and respect for human rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u3	Madam President, Mr Cogolati, like other like-minded countries, Belgium has, in recent years, regularly called on China to grant UN independent experts, including the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, meaningful and unrestricted access to the region. On 9 March, at the beginning of the 49th session of the Human Rights Council, the High Commissioner announced that she would visit Xinjiang in May 2022. Despite the serious deterioration of the health situation in the country, preparations for the visit of High Commissioner Bachelet to China continued in discretion. In late April, a preparatory team visited China. After three weeks of quarantine, it is now located in the Xinjiang region. According to her spokesman, Mrs Bachelet will shortly be visiting Xinjiang and Canton. On the other hand, it will not go to Beijing because of the covid situation, but it should meet with high-level government officials. Furthermore, I can confirm that Belgium supports the prompt publication of the report of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights on the situation of human rights in Xinjiang and in this regard supported the joint statement on the situation of human rights in Xinjiang at the 76th session of the UN General Assembly on 21 October 2021. However, it was up to the High Commissioner to decide on the publication of the report. According to the latest information, it would appear that the report will not be published before Ms. Bachelet's departure to China, since it should contain elements of her visit, even if it is part of a broader objective of dialogue with the Chinese authorities on human rights issues, both at national and regional and global level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I would like to stress this request of the Belgian Government to have meaningful and unrestricted access. This can go without saying at home, but if we want this visit to be meaningful and truly worth something in terms of the promotion of human rights and not to ridicule the United Nations, in particular Mrs Bachelet's office, I believe that this visit must be carried out without hindrance and that we must be able to make all the transparency on what is really going on inside the camps so that these completely innocent Uyghurs can be released. In addition, this report must be published at all costs, which is ready. We've been waiting for him for a long time. Again, we ask for the truth and for justice to finally be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u5	Debates of the European Parliament 55025929C by Mrs Els Van Hoof will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u6	"Madam Minister, on 23 February last, the European Commission finally lifted the veil on its proposal for a directive to introduce a duty of social and environmental vigilance for businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u7	Mr De Smet, at European level, the proposal for a directive on the duty of companies to monitor sustainability was presented by the European Commission on 23 February. Belgium is satisfied that, after several postponements, the proposal is on the table. In the case of a subject for which the Regions are also competent, the definition of a Belgian position shall take place through the coordination meetings of the DGE. Belgium had indeed contributed to the public consultation in February 2021. The presentation of the draft guideline opens a new chapter. Discussions within the relevant working group within the Council have just begun. Belgium follows the discussions closely and intends to play an active role in the negotiations. The existence of European legislation is essential in order to ensure a real level playing field at European level and to avoid a competitive economic disadvantage for our companies. Moreover, we believe that it is essential that this directive be transposed as uniformly as possible by the Member States. Some concepts still need to be clarified and we remain attentive to the need for consistency of this directive with other instruments. Belgium will also defend the enforceability of the directive, which must be credible, effective and homogeneous. Finally, the adequate protection of SMEs is also a very important point of attention for our country. At Belgian level, the government agreement provides for a support framework to be set up as far as possible. This support framework will have to transpose the Directive and support businesses in its implementation. With regard to the work on the draft United Nations Treaty on Business and Human Rights, Belgium continues to advocate a more positive and constructive attitude of the European Union. This issue is regularly on the agenda of the European Union's consultations. Our goal is to promote an instrument that can effectively strengthen the protection of victims of business-related human rights violations and abuses and create more equitable conditions at the global level. A significant part of the issues addressed in this text fall within the exclusive competence of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your complete answers. I'll take the time to analyze them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u9	Madam President, Secretary of State, I had tabled two questions on the situation in Armenia, in the Nagorny Karabakh region. I propose to synthesize them into one, in agreement with the President. My first question concerned the adoption on 10 March of a resolution by the European Parliament condemning Azerbaijan's policy of erasing and denying the Armenian cultural heritage in and around Nagorny Karabakh. It also stresses that any new cases of destruction or modification of cultural heritage should lead to an immediate response by the international community. What do you know about Azerbaijan's continued destruction? What is the follow-up of this situation by the international community, and in particular by the European Union? What response by the International Community is envisaged in the event of the continuation of these acts by the Azeri power? My second question concerns the actual situation on the ground. The 2020 ceasefire is frequently challenged and tensions remain high in the region. Last month, Prime Minister Nikol Pachinian and President Azerbaijan met in Brussels in the presence of the President of the European Council. They affirmed their willingness to begin preparations for the peace talks between the two countries and the establishment of a bilateral commission on border delimitation issues. For his part, Charles Michel assured in a statement that President Aliyev and Prime Minister Pachinian both expressed their willingness to move quickly towards a peace agreement. Could you take stock of the progress of the situation since that meeting? According to your information, what is the state of negotiations between the two countries? What roles do Belgium and the European Union play? To your knowledge, have any new violations of the ceasefire occurred recently in the Nagorny Karabakh region? What is the support given to local populations by Belgium and the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u10	Mr Secretary of State, since the autumn 2020 war in and around Nagorno-Karabakh, the Azeri have owned a large part of that region and all the surrounding provinces. Together they form the Republic of Artsach. The negotiations between Armenia and Azerbaijan, with an important role for Turkey, are under way. Jerevan seems willing to make far-reaching concessions by relinquishing control of Nagorno-Karabakh and recognising Azerbaijan's territorial integrity. In return, they demand the protection of the rights and security of the Armenians of Nagorno-Karabakh. In Baku, however, it remains silent about concessions in this direction. While President Aliyev spoke before the war in 2020 of the most far-reaching autonomy for Nagorno-Karabakh, he now wants to know nothing about it. Cultural autonomy seems to be the only concession Azerbaijan wants to make, now that it has the strongest negotiating position. If Armenia agrees to the present deal, Artsach will be completely at the mercy of the Azeri and the Russians will also be in control until 2025. Then their peacekeeping forces leave and the Armenians depend on Azerbaijan's goodwill for their self-determination and their cultural and political rights. That's not a very attractive prospect. Will you raise the rights and security of Armenians in Nagorno-Karabakh in the relevant bilateral and international fora? What initiatives will you take or have you already taken? Have you had any recent contacts with your Armenian or Azerbaijani colleague or with the respective ambassadors? If so, what was discussed? What role does Belgium play in diplomatic initiatives aimed at achieving a lasting peace, which takes into account the rights of Armenians? What role does the Minsk Group play in these negotiations? What is the situation with regard to the humanitarian aid provided directly or indirectly by Belgium to the affected people of Nagorno-Karabakh?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u11	Your questions give me the opportunity to take stock of the Armenian-Azerbaijan relations and the situation in and around Nagorny Karabakh. The road to peace and reconciliation remains long and difficult, as we recall from the various incidents in March and April, both at the level of the line of contact along the international border between Armenia and Azerbaijan, and at the level of Nagorny Karabakh. With regard to incidents on the line of contact along the international border between Armenia and Azerbaijan, the belligerents rejected each other's responsibility. However, developments in Nagorny Karabakh on 24 and 25 March are of greater concern. The Azerbaijani soldiers reportedly conducted military operations in the areas occupied by the forces of the Russian peacekeeping mission, despite the ceasefire memorandum of 9 November 2011 between Armenia, Azerbaijan and Russia. The incidents of the last two months are a reminder of febrileness in the Region. Our country calls on all parties, and Azerbaijan in particular, to remain calm, to respect the ceasefire and to move forward in the political process. The President of the European Council has, moreover, personally invested in the matter. He thus met with Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pachinian and Azeri President Ilham Aliyev in Brussels on 6 April, as you mentioned. After recalling the availability of the European Union to contribute to the reduction of tensions and the promotion of security and stability in the South Caucasus, he stressed the need to implement all the provisions of the trilateral ceasefire declarations of 9 November 2020, as well as to continue any steps that could contribute to peace, particularly in the humanitarian sphere. President Aliyev and Armenian Prime Minister Pachinian expressed their willingness to start discussions for a peace agreement between the two countries. They also undertook to establish a bilateral commission for the delimitation and demarcation of the border between the two countries and to establish a security corridor on both sides of the border. On 11 April, the foreign ministers of both countries spoke by telephone on this subject. It should be pointed out that the demonstrated willingness of Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pachinian to continue dialogue and to start peace talks is met by resistance from part of his own population. Protests including opposition members and ultra-nationalists have been taking place since the beginning of May in the centre of Yerevan. Indeed, one of the five points of the basic negotiating plan proposed by the Azeri authorities and approved in principle by Prime Minister Pachinian concerns respect for the territorial integrity of Armenia and Azerbaijan. The Armenian ultra-nationalist circles fear that the acceptance of this five-point plan by the Pachinian government will mean a concession to Nagorny Karabakh, whose independence they are only prepared to accept. There is no doubt that the preservation of cultural heritage is also a central element of the Armenian-Azeri process. The mutual accusations of the destruction of Azerbaijani cultural heritage by Armenia during the first Karabakh war in 1991-1992 and the Armenian cultural heritage by Azerbaijan during the second Karabakh war in 2020 are indeed one of the main obstacles to the resolution of the conflict. This is in addition to the mutual accusations of repeated ceasefire violations and the issue of missing Armenians and Azerbaijanis. Thus, the areas recovered by Azerbaijan, following the Second Karabakh War, are largely in ruins, whether religious buildings, elements of cultural heritage or other buildings. The preservation of cultural heritage plays an essential role in promoting lasting peace. It is therefore essential to create an environment conducive to the preservation or reconstruction of the monuments left by these different communities, which implies the abandonment of any discourse of incitement to hatred or ethnic discrimination. Belgium fully supports the initiative proposed by UNESCO to send a mission of independent experts to both countries, and not only to the Nagorny Karabakh region, in order to establish a preliminary inventory of important cultural property. This would be a first step towards the effective preservation of the region's heritage. In this regard, Belgium welcomes the agreement reached on 4 February 2022 between the parties. Mrs Samyn, as has already been pointed out in many speeches, the Minsk Group and its co-chairs are the only legitimate international forum for a peaceful, lasting and negotiated solution to the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. The body should be completely impartial in dealing with the various unresolved issues. These include, in particular, the return of the last Armenian prisoners of war, the transfer of the remains and the repatriation of missing persons and, more generally, the peace process itself. Belgium has always supported the activities of the Minsk Group. The international situation and the diplomatic isolation of Russia as a result of the Russian invasion and war in Ukraine are no longer allowing the co-chairs of the Minsk Group to function in full trio. The French and American co-chairs continue the work on their side. The Russian co-chair is doing the same on his side. The trio keeps each other informed as well and as angry as possible. This factual situation makes the peace process more complex. This has led the President of the European Council to engage actively in the Armenian-Azerbaijan peace process. This conciliation, conducted in full transparency with the co-chairs of the Minsk Group, has allowed a certain momentum to be maintained. In addition to the Belgian support for the Minsk Group's work and for the mediation of the President of the European Council, the Foreign Affairs Office's administration is also in regular contact with the Armenian and Azerbaijani authorities. It recalls the need, on the one hand, to continue efforts to organise peace talks and, on the other hand, to take account of the needs and aspirations of the respective population groups. On the humanitarian front, Belgium supported the aid provided since the beginning by the International Committee of the Red Cross, the only international organisation present in Nagorno-Karabakh since 1992. Most of the humanitarian needs are currently covered, although the international mission to assess the humanitarian needs of the relevant UN agencies has not yet taken place, due to the lack of agreement between the two parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u12	Madam President, Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. The situation in Ukraine is dramatic, but it must not make us forget that many other conflicts persist throughout the world. And I confess that I am also very concerned about the Nagorny Karabakh issue. I am reassured to hear that we continue to monitor the situation on the spot, and I am pleased that the President of the European Council, Charles Michel, encourages talks day after day. Every effort must be made to ensure that the ceasefire agreement, which was hard achieved in November 2020, is respected, with this essential objective for the very tried and tested populations of Nagorny Karabakh and Armenia: to achieve peace, without which happiness and prosperity will remain chimera in the region. Finally, with regard to the protection of the Armenian heritage, I am pleased that Belgium supports the sending of UNESCO experts to the region. In this context, this is a positive and constructive initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your very detailed answer, including my specific questions. Indeed, the road to peace remains long and difficult. The humanitarian situation in this region is still very poignant. Recently, two new reports from Amnesty International have been published, highlighting, for example, the situation of the older ethnic Armenians in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. This shows that they are often the greatest victims of war violence because they have the least opportunity to flee. It is also described, for example, that these older ethnic Armenians are more often victims of violence and war crimes such as extrajudicial executions, tortures and other abuses in Azerbaijani detention. The situation there is extremely serious. Internationally, we must ensure that the right of self-determination and cultural and political rights are guaranteed to the Armenian people in Artsach.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u14	Mr Secretary of State, the Colonial Passé Commission devoted two full hearings to the issue of archives, in particular those from African sources. The discussions with the representatives of the institutions and bodies concerned with the subject were very interesting. The debate on the accessibility of African archives by the greatest number has opened another, broader and dealing with the notions of declassification and empowerment. This is a democratic issue, which is indispensable for researchers, historians, representatives of civil society and citizens. This tool responds to a threefold need: scientific, societal and memory. We learned that archival holdings were inaccessible until they were inventoried. It is not your responsibility, even indirectly, because it is above all a matter of sufficient numbers of archivists. For some time now, we have been focusing on the issue of the paternity of the Congolese Sûreté archives. We have heard contradictory statements between representatives of State Security and Foreign Affairs. Hence my question, Mr. Secretary of State: Who owns these archives of colonial security? What body is responsible for their accessibility?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u15	Dear colleague, after the independence of the Congo, Rwanda and Burundi, the ownership of these archives has not been clearly or precisely determined. In the past, this has led to disputes between the parties concerned, namely the General Archives of the Kingdom (AGR) State Security and Foreign Affairs. Foreign Affairs has been proactive on this issue by continually seeking a solution that takes into account the views of all parties and the regulations in force. On the basis of legal arguments, the FPS Foreign Affairs decided to process documents prepared by the colonial security services in the same manner as other archival material. As a result, following the decision of the Chair of the 2017 FPS Foreign Affairs Steering Committee to allow automatic declassifications of Foreign Affairs or equivalent documents, all these documents have been declassified and are more easily accessible. The confusion found at the hearing of the Commission "Passé coloniale" stems from the fact that in 2015, when a solution had not yet been reached between the various parties, a archives security fund was transported from the archives of the SPF Foreign Affairs to the archives of the Sûreté de l'Etat. At the time, it was found that the two archives each had a part of a fund originally common in colonial times, but divided between the two entities upon the disappearance of the Colonial Ministry. The sole purpose of the transfer was to consolidate these archives in their original state. As regards access to archives, Alain Gérard, archivist of Foreign Affairs, was able to expose to the members of the Commission "Passé coloniale" that the SPF has been working for many years to facilitate access to these archives to researchers. The inventories are currently available to researchers either in the reading room or by electronic means, prior to the visit - which is becoming more and more frequent. While some funds are not inventoried in accordance with current inventory standards, they are nevertheless available through electronic search databases and are communicated and accessible to researchers. As the current health context allows for group visits within the AGRs again, you and the members of the Commission are cordially invited to contact archivist Alain Gérard to visit and see the accessibility of this service.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u16	Madam President, I thank the Secretary of State for his answer. I will say that I will include the answer in the general debate on the subject. It's a Belgian story. I take note of the answer and hope that this will clarify matters for all parties concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u17	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Defossé's 55026493C lapses as he is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u18	Mr Lacroix is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u19	Mr Secretary of State, we are again crossing the Atlantic, in particular to Columbia on the South American continent. The increasing paramilitary violence there requires our attention. According to the Institute for Development and Peace Studies (INDEPAZ), 50 environmental activists, indigenous leaders, social leaders, human rights activists and syndicates have already been murdered in different departments of the country in the first 95 days of 2022. Since I submitted the question, more murders have happened: we already have 64 murdered social activists. Meanwhile, ten ex-soldiers and officers of the Colombian army publicly admitted that they murdered 120 innocent peasants under the pretext that they were guerrilla fighters. The extreme right-wing paramilitary group Aguilas Negras or Black Eagles recently made death threats to several members of the coalition of the Historical Pact, including presidential candidate Gustavo Petro and vice presidential candidate Francia Márquez. That duo currently leads the polls for the forthcoming presidential elections on 29 May with 36.5% of the votes. As a result, of course, they have become the enemy of the right-wing political establishment, there are slander campaigns against them in the media and they are threatened by illegal armed groups. Eighteen other political and social leaders, including the Central Union of Workers and the Social Movement First Line, are also threatened, including recently elected MPs for the new Congress and members of the current Congress. On 4 April, several progressive and social leaders threatened by the illegal armed group Aguilas Negras, active in Colombia since 2006, charged the impunity enjoyed by those criminals by the lack of action of the government. Mr Secretary of State, will you condemn the extreme right-wing violence against a democratic presidential candidate and his party? Have you already addressed President Ivan Duque diplomatically for the aid of the Colombian state and his judicial and police services in the acts of terror, death threats and political murders? What measures will you take against Colombia if the climate of impunity continues?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u20	Mr De Vuyst, Belgium condemns any form of violence against any presidential candidate. For Belgium, it is important that the election campaign is conducted non-violently and as correctly as possible. There have been no bilateral contacts recently with President Duque, but during bilateral talks in the past Belgium has always drawn the attention of the Colombian Government to the importance of respect for human rights and called for an end to the vicious circle of violence and impunity. Our country has always stressed that the perpetrators of violence must be brought to justice. Belgium prefers to keep the dialogue open with the Columbian Government and will continue to work on it in the future. In the week following the parliamentary elections, unrest arose following alleged irregularities in the counting of the election results to the detriment of the Pacto Histórico and other political parties. As a result, distrust and political polarisation have increased considerably. A number of members of the EU Election Observation Mission remained on the ground to monitor the census to the end and to monitor any appeals against the results. The EU Election Observation Mission will also be present during the presidential elections in May. As long as the election results are not definitively known, it is impossible to judge future policies and their impact on the specific problems that Columbia has been facing for decades, such as inequality, impunity and the redistribution of land. The solution to these problems lies to a large extent in the full implementation of the peace agreement, which we have already discussed with our Colombian partner.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u21	Mr Secretary of State, as is so often the case, I have to say that there are lukewarm reactions when it comes to countries that are more geopolitically part of the Western sphere of influence. Columbia has been a strong ally of the United States for many years. Once again, two sizes and two weights are used. It is not just about the current elections or threats and undermining the rule of law, but about a whole series of murders that are often committed consciously and systematically, with the cooperation and knowledge of the Columbian Government, on members of mainly social organisations, indigenous leaders and syndicates. Colombia continues to set the record of the most risky country for human rights activists and syndicates, with the knowledge of our country and the US. You say that there is a dialogue. We note that sanctions are constantly being used for other parts of the world, and very often they do not go beyond rhetorical condemnation for the other side of the spectrum. There is a stark contrast to that, of which we are aware. We will continue to monitor the situation. We are also coming up with a proposal for a resolution on the current situation and the deteriorating human rights situation, the functioning of the rule of law and fair elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u22	Ms Van Hoof, Monsieur De Smet, the case of the 13 human rights activists of the LUCHA movement, who are being held in Beni's prison, is well known at the FPS Foreign Affairs. The FPS is also aware of the recent ruling of the military court in Beni, which sentenced them to 12 months imprisonment. Our embassy in Kinshasa systematically addressed this dossier in meetings with the competent Congolese authorities and has already taken several steps, including vis-à-vis the Minister of Human Rights and the Minister of Justice, to address the arbitrary arrests and appalling conditions in prison. In December 2021, an employee of our embassy in Kinshasa was also on the spot to visit the persons concerned in prison. We will continue to raise this issue with the Congolese authorities. Belgium has also taken the initiative, together with the EU and the other EU Member States, represented in Kinshasa, to advocate the provisional release of the 13 LUCHA members, who have already served a third of their sentence. The arrest of François Beya Kasonga, former Special Adviser to the Head of State for Security, and his transfer to Makala Central Prison were widely relayed in the media. Judicial proceedings are currently under way. We will follow closely the treatment he will receive during this procedure and will insist on respect for the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary and fundamental freedoms. The most recent report of the United Nations Joint Office for Human Rights shows a decrease in the number of human rights violations in the DRC, but the situation remains worrying and there is an increase in human rights violations linked to democratic space. In the provinces under siege, the restriction of the right of association and freedom of expression is even more worrying. The state of siege in Ituri and North Kivu was examined by a parliamentary commission of inquiry in August and September 2021. A ministerial delegation led by Prime Minister Samalou Condé recently visited the East for an additional assessment. It is important that these assessments lead to the implementation of the necessary recommendations and to the identification of a clear chronology of the end of the state of siege, the return of a civil regime and parliamentary scrutiny. This should enable the Congolese army to focus on its core tasks, namely the fight against armed groups. Generally speaking, there has been a decline in the practices of the National Intelligence Agency in terms of respect for the rule of law and respect for judicial procedures, with non-compliance with the constitutional regulations on pre-trial detention. These practices inherited from the past must, of course, definitely disappear. We have regular and open contacts with the Congolese authorities where the human rights situation is systematically mentioned. For example, during the visit of her Congolese counterpart Christophe Lutundula to Brussels in October 2021, Minister Wilmès expressed her concern about the disproportionate prosecution of citizen movements. In addition, Belgium is involved in the reform of the Congolese police. Enabel will implement a project funded by the European Union in the framework of a consortium. Other projects supporting security sector reform are currently under consideration, particularly in the European context. These projects will give the opportunity to contribute to a new work ethic of the Congolese security services. Finally, on 29 March 2022, the Interactive Dialogue of the UN Human Rights Council on the Democratic Republic of Congo in Geneva took place, with the Belgian delegation expressing its concern about violations of the human rights of journalists, activists and human rights defenders. It is essential to ensure democratic space and freedom of expression. We will continue to address human rights issues in our bilateral dialogues with the Congolese authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u23	Mr Secretary of State, your reply clearly shows that the situation is worrying, but is taken seriously by the Belgian authorities in their contacts with the Congolese authorities and in international fora such as the UN Human Rights Council. The state of siege first seemed promising, because the situation in Eastern Congo has been problematic for 20 years, with the human rights situation, particularly in the area of sexual violence against women, being very serious. The Congolese government had to take action, including the murder of the Italian ambassador. The state of siege was therefore promising to bring the situation under control, but it is unacceptable that the situation should be abused and that the freedom of movement, democratic space and freedom of expression of activists should be used as a pretext. That is why we must continue to raise this issue in the hope that the activists will be released and that this will be a red alert to Congo on these issues. It is a pity that the new President has not yet tackled the protection of the rule of law and impunity better. So these remain concerns in our bilateral relations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u24	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I am very concerned about the case of Mr. François Beya Kasonga. We must pay attention to it, because it is truly symptomatic and exemplar of an objectively authoritarian and reductive drift in terms of human rights. I regret that you did not answer the part of my question about the planned visit of King Philip and Queen Mathilde to the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Given the atmosphere and the many suspicions now on the Congolese authorities, it would be useful for the government to consider the desirability of maintaining this trip.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u25	"Madam Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u26	Thank you for your answers."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u27	Mr De Smet, the resolution adopted by the European Parliament on 10 March unfortunately illustrates a dramatic situation that has been going on for more than a year now in Myanmar. The situation on the ground is alarming, both in terms of human rights and at the humanitarian level. Violence is widespread and does not encourage optimism with a view to a future resolution of the crisis. In view of this, it is essential that Belgium and the European Union continue to maintain significant international pressure on the military. This pressure is first and foremost through the adoption of sanctions. The European Union has, since the coup d'état, like the United States you are quoting, regularly strengthened its arsenal of sanctions against the military and certain economic entities controlled or held by them. Further sanctions were adopted at the Foreign Affairs Council last February. A total of 65 individuals and 10 entities are now targeted by sanctions, including an asset freeze and a travel ban. In addition to these sanctions, measures that have affected Myanmar for many years have been extended, such as an embargo on arms and equipment that can be used for internal repression. In this regard, during the interactive dialogue with the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar, held in Geneva on 18 March, our country intervened by calling on all countries that had not yet done so to impose such an embargo. The European Union will, of course, continue to adapt the sanctions taken in the light of developments, but it is also necessary to support all initiatives aimed at finding a solution to the crisis. In this context, we support the mediation of ASEAN, an organization of which Myanmar is a member. Unfortunately for the time being, little progress has been made, particularly in establishing an inclusive political dialogue. However, the involvement of all parties is essential to ensure a lasting resolution to the crisis. We also, of course, continue, as we did before the coup d'état of 1 February 2021, to advocate for Myanmar to remain on the agenda of the United Nations and, in particular, of the Security Council. We also support the work of the UN Secretary-General's Special Envoy for Myanmar, Mrs Heyzer. We also continue to address the situation in Myanmar in our various contacts with involved actors, including the countries of the region, but also members of the Burmese opposition. We continue to analyse all possibilities to increase pressure on the military. Our action is thus part of the demands of the resolution passed by the House in 2021. Finally, to answer your last question, we are actively participating in the international deliberations in Geneva on the use of explosive weapons in populated areas. Our first concern concerns better implementation of the existing rules of international humanitarian law. Belgium has put in place the necessary procedures to respect the fundamental principles of humanitarian law: proportionality, distinction between combatants and non-combatants and precautions. We support a more systematic exchange and sharing of national good practices to avoid excessive collateral damage related to the use of explosive weapons in populated areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u28	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your very comprehensive answer. Indeed, I believe it is essential that Burma is not a matter that falls into oblivion because of the rest of the international news which is extremely dense. I am pleased to see that our country continues to pay great attention to Myanmar with its European partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u29	"Madam the Minister, it is my responsibility that the High Commissioner for Human Rights in the context of the follow-up to the third cycle of the Universal Periodic Review sent you, in February of this year, a letter in which she welcomes in particular the establishment of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, while pleading for the authorization of the Institute to hear and examine complaints concerning individual situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u30	Thank you in advance for your answers."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u31	Dear colleague, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights has established the practice of sending a letter to each member State as part of the follow-up to the third cycle of the universal periodic review. Such a letter usually refers to some achievements but of course also to points of attention and always includes an offer of assistance from the Office of the High Commissioner. The issues of referral to the Federal Institute of Human Rights through individual complaints and the adoption of a national action plan against racism do not fall within the competence of Foreign Affairs. I therefore invite you to address these questions to my colleague from Justice and to the Secretary of State for Gender Equality, Equality of Opportunities and Diversity, respectively. With regard to cooperation with civil society, I refer you to the answer given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs to your question of 21 December 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u32	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers that we will analyse.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u33	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about a conflict that is largely forgotten and about a crisis which is extremely serious, particularly in the humanitarian sphere. I have already asked your colleague, Mrs Kitir, about the humanitarian aspect of the crisis in the Ethiopian region of Tigray. Today I would like to ask you about the political aspect of this crisis. On 16 March in Geneva, the Director General of the World Health Organization (WHO), Mr. Ghebreyesus, stated that there is nowhere on earth where the health of millions of people is at greater risk than in the Ethiopian region of Tigray. The armed conflict, which broke out in Tigray on 4 November 2020, caused a serious humanitarian crisis in the region. The health and food situation is simply catastrophic. It has driven nearly five million people to travel. According to WHO assessments, three quarters of health facilities are destroyed or damaged. I indicated in my question that, since last December, no food aid had been delivered, but since its deposit, four convoys have been able to reach the capital of Tigray, Mekélé, but that is very little. WHO estimates that 83 per cent of the population is in food insecurity or even famine. It's a region I know very well. I went there with Médecins sans frontières at the time of the great famine. I am therefore particularly concerned about this situation, which is being discussed far too little. Mr Secretary of State, the purpose of my question is to ask Belgium to act in order not to witness another great disaster and to help these people. What is your analysis of the situation? What are the actions carried out by the Belgian Government on the spot and here? How can a ceasefire be achieved? How can we politically force Ethiopia to accept substantial humanitarian aid to the people?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u34	Mr President, the general situation in northern Ethiopia remains tense, but rather stable, with sporadic fighting continuing along the Tigray border in the Amhara and Afar regions. According to statements by the Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF), all its troops have withdrawn from the Afar region. However, some reports indicate that they are still present at the border between the two regions. As a result, the conflict continues, but does not extend geographically. Its intensity has also fallen from what we experienced a few months ago. On 24 March, the Ethiopian government announced an immediate and indefinite humanitarian truce, to which the authorities responded by announcing a cessation of hostilities. This truce is generally respected, but it remains to be seen whether it will hold and lead to formal discussions between the parties to the conflict on a lasting ceasefire and the establishment of political dialogue. On the other hand, the humanitarian situation is not improving, as it is exacerbated by the drought throughout the Horn of Africa, as well as rising food prices. In the wake of the humanitarian truce, on 1 April – for the first time since last December – ground humanitarian convoys reached Tigray. Other convoys followed on 14 and 25 April. Since then, a total of one hundred and forty humanitarian aid trucks, as well as eight fuel tankers, have been able to reach Tigray. The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) reported that it had also been able to send three convoys of supplies, mainly medical supplies. This is a step in the right direction, but it remains largely insufficient. Indeed, the United Nations estimates the weekly need for at least 800 trucks of food aid to assist the 5.2 million people on the ground, 700,000 of whom are facing famine. The humanitarian situation is precarious throughout Ethiopia. The European Commission's humanitarian service estimates that a total of 30 million people in the country are in need of some form of assistance as a result of the conflict and drought. I would also like to point out that Belgium has co-signed two letters from donors to the Ethiopian authorities, in order to put pressure on them and thus allow humanitarian access. Both in Addis Ababa and in Geneva, our country also continues to monitor closely the implementation of the recommendations of the report of the joint United Nations investigation team and the Ethiopian Human Rights Commission. On behalf of Benelux, Belgium also expressed its support for the establishment of an international commission of human rights experts on Ethiopia. The Commission, which must investigate human rights violations and abuses committed by all parties to the conflict, and for the duration of its investigation – in addition to the existing mechanism – has been rejected by Ethiopia. The conflict in the north of the country has been dealt with very regularly at the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union and will remain so, in particular, following various European visits. At these meetings and beyond, with the European Union, Belgium continues to highlight three clear requests: - the need for immediate, unconditional, unlimited and unrestricted humanitarian access; - the negotiation of a ceasefire and a political solution; - the accountability of all actors involved in human rights violations in order to combat impunity. In order to promote these priorities, Belgium is in regular contact with the Ethiopian authorities, both in Brussels, with the Embassy of Ethiopia and on the spot. This was particularly the case during an interview with our ambassador in Addis Ababa with a few key partners and Prime Minister Abiy in February, as well as during regular exchanges with the Ethiopian Foreign Minister. The holding on 6 May of a dialogue between the European Union and Ethiopia with the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs is an important signal of political openness and re-engagement by the Ethiopian Government with the European Union and its Member States. Belgium raised the issue of impunity and accountability for the most serious crimes. Ethiopia's willingness to reengage with the European Union is clearly visible, as demonstrated by Prime Minister Abiy's visit to Brussels at the EU-AU Summit in February, during which a number of bilateral contacts took place. However, this willingness to reengage must be followed by Ethiopia's effects on the ground and concrete actions to meet the priorities set by the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u35	Thank you, Secretary of State, for that answer. I can only encourage you and urge you and your department to have all the necessary attention to this serious crisis. As I said, this is probably one of the biggest humanitarian crises that is taking place for the time being, and with the greatest number of victims of conflicts. I would like to update your own figures on humanitarian aid. Indeed, there was another convoy on May 5. One hundred and sixty-nine trucks have now reached the region. It's extremely little. When we see that millions of people are affected, a thousand tons of aid represents little. Access to humanitarian assistance remains extremely problematic. I would also like to point out that the Ethiopian Government, according to various consistent sources, is now responsible for ethnic cleansing in the region and around Tigray, towards the Tigray people. I encourage you to take steps towards the Ethiopian government to stop these serious human rights violations. It is extremely paradoxical, if not worse, that a Nobel Peace Prize is responsible for such serious human rights abuses. Finally, I am pleased to hear that this principle of accountability is put forward by our Government and the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u36	Madam President, Secretary of State, on April 11, the United Kingdom sanctioned two Bosnian Serb leaders, accusing them of destabilizing the country under the influence of Russia. Similar sanctions had already been imposed by the United States last January. You are not unaware that tensions have rekindled in Bosnia, already several months ago, and that the separatist movement that is at work today, more determined than ever, threatens stability and security in the Balkans. A separatist law has also been suspended by the representative of the international community. Mr Secretary of State, what are the real risks of a renewed conflict in the Balkans? What is the Kremlin's share of responsibility in these tensions? What are Belgium and the European Union doing to ease these tensions? Has the Minister ever had an opportunity to talk to the Bosnian Ambassador in Brussels about this? If not, is she willing to meet him as soon as possible to address this issue? Is the government prepared to adopt or call for the European Union to adopt sanctions similar to those adopted by the United States and the United Kingdom against those who threaten peace in Bosnia? One of the reasons for the resurgence of tensions relates in particular to the solitude of Bosnia, which is still not a member of the European Union, whereas it has been a candidate State since 2003. Observers seem to agree that the European perspective could be part of the solution since Bosniaks, Serbs from Serbia or Bosnia, all want to join the Union. What is our government's position on Bosnia's accession to the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u37	Madam President, Mr De Smet, as the United States did last January, the United Kingdom did indeed decide to adopt sanctions on 11 April 2022 against the Serbian member of the Presidential College of the Central State, Mr Milorad Dodik, and against the President of Republika Srpska, the Serbian Republic of Bosnia. The following day, the International High Representative, Christian Schmidt, used his "Bonn powers" to suspend a controversial Republika Srpska law on the appropriation of real estate, which was due to enter into force on 14 April 2022. This intervention by the High Representative had become inevitable in view of the increasing provocations and unconstitutional legislative initiatives taken by the Republika Srpska. Russia has been playing a negative role in Bosnia and Herzegovina for several years now and it is clear that the Republika Srpska authorities feel supported by Russia in their efforts. Belgium considers the actions and rhetoric of the Republika Srpska authorities to be unacceptable and dangerous, not only for Bosnia but also for regional stability. Belgium also supports the High International Representative and the use of the powers assigned to him at the Bonn Conference, where there are no other alternatives. This position was reiterated by the Minister for Foreign Affairs during the meeting with her counterpart from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mrs Bisera Turković, on 7 February in Brussels. This is also the position expressed by our diplomatic post in Sarajevo in its contacts with the local authorities. The situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina has also been discussed several times in the Foreign Affairs Council in recent months. It was also so at the Council meeting on 16 May, during which Belgium welcomed the announcement of the organisation of elections on 2 October and condemned the secessionist threats, which are unacceptable and endanger the integrity of the country. On that occasion, our country also expressed its support for the High Representative in his mandate. With regard to sanctions, Belgium supports the adoption of restrictive measures at European Union level against political leaders in Bosnia and Herzegovina who threaten the peace and stability of the country. Such a framework of sanctions does exist at European level. However, there is still no consensus within the European Union to punish individuals. These restrictive measures are not the only tools available to the European Union which, for example, has suspended the granting of certain funding for projects benefiting Republika Srpska. With regard to the possible accession of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the European Union, in 2019 the Union identified fourteen priorities which constitute a roadmap for the reforms to be undertaken by the country so that accession negotiations can be initiated. Unfortunately, I must note that the reforms undertaken by Bosnia are so far very insufficient in relation to what is expected. In these circumstances, artificially accelerating the accession process is not a solution to the country's problems. With regard to the common foreign and security policy, Bosnia and Herzegovina has formally aligned itself with the declarations and restrictive measures taken by the European Union towards Russia, but the implementation of these measures is problematic given the opposition of Serbian officials, beginning with President Milorad Dodik. In conclusion, I confirm that Belgium and the European Union can support Bosnia and Herzegovina in convergence with the accession criteria. It is a role for the European Commission in the first place, but Belgium has in the past also contributed on the basis of its own experience of federalism.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u38	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u39	Mr Secretary of State, the situation of Julian Assange is serious and urgent at the moment. The British Minister for the Interior, Priti Patel, can now sign the United States' extradition request. So Julian Assange can now in principle be delivered with a drawing of pens. In the United States, he will then face 175 years of punishment for simply doing his job as a journalist, as well as for making the crimes against humanity and war crimes in Afghanistan and Iraq public for the sake of society and as a whistleblower, and thus demonstrating the illegal nature of the war. I don't need to repeat to you how Julian Assange has been treated in recent years. The same UN rapporteur spoke of inhuman treatment. There has even been talk of psychological torture. It is a mockery of the rule of law and of democracy that people like Julian Assange should fear for the exercise of their jobs and for a long prison sentence. Mr Secretary of State, will our government call upon the United States ambassador or criticize the course of events? I don't know. In any case, we have tabled a motion for a resolution requesting the government to grant political asylum to Julian Assange, if his lawyers so request. Maybe she can inspire herself to a tradition of our country, so history teaches us to always grant political asylum to dissidents, who were persecuted for their views and beliefs, and whistleblowers and thus to give Julian Assange the protection he deserves. Will the current government have the courage to do so? Will the government also take action, in accordance with the approved resolution calling on the government to transpose into Belgian law as soon as possible the European directive on the recognition of whistleblowers and the granting of a statute protecting whistleblowers? Julien Assange is the perfect case for that. Thank you for your answer and I look forward to your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u40	The possible extradition of Mr Assange to the United States was not mentioned within the European Union in the Council meeting or in Minister Wilmès' bilateral contacts with her American and British counterparts. Since an appeal to the extradition decision is still possible and is an ongoing judicial procedure, it is difficult to predict possible scenarios and decide on future actions. This also applies to the hypothetical question of political asylum. The United Kingdom is a democratic country, which respects the principles of the rule of law and has an independent judiciary. The necessary internal controls are therefore in place to ensure the right to a fair trial. In addition, there are several multilateral mechanisms responsible for dealing with cases such as those of Mr Assange. For example, the United Kingdom is a member of the Council of Europe and as such a party to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. The Council of Europe has appropriate mechanisms to ensure and monitor respect for fundamental rights and freedoms, including with regard to detention conditions. The Council of Europe has, inter alia, a platform for the protection of journalists' journalism and security. The situation of Julian Assange was raised by the European Federation of Journalists. The United Kingdom is also a party to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. States parties are required to submit regular reports to the Committee against Torture. The United Kingdom has recognized the competence of the Committee against Torture to receive individual complaints. In general, Belgium will continue to engage fully in the various multilateral forums for the safety of journalists and the protection of whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u41	Secretary of State, I have already had this exchange with the Prime Minister and Mrs Wilmès. I'm sorry we don't dare call a cat a cat and name Julian Assange as a retaliatory journalist. Belgium could point that out more. Of course, the United Kingdom is an independent state that makes decisions with justice separate from the executive. Nevertheless, Mr Assange's act of extradition is an act of the executive. This alone could have led Belgium to protest and offer asylum to Mr Assange not as a whistleblower but as a journalist. I find us, collectively, below what should have been done. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u42	Mr Secretary of State, you have actually said in a very euphemistic way that the Belgian government will do nothing for Julian Assange. You have given a very official explanation of all kinds of multilateral agreements and treaties that respect Europe and Britain and the fact that Britain is a rule of law, but that is not the point. Suppose a Russian dissident has determined convincingly and provided material to prove that the Russian army is currently committing terrible war crimes and that that person is fleeing Russia and applying for asylum from us, he would probably get it. However, when it comes to war crimes committed by the United States, when it comes to providing evidence of the unlawful nature of a war that has cost the lives of 1.5 million Iraqis, an illegal war based on lies and false pretences, for which Bush and Blair are politically and legally responsible as war criminals, you use two measures and two weights. Julian Assange may be extradited. In this case, it is the whistleblowers and those who expose misdeeds, who are being persecuted, not the fires that have led to an illegal war and who are also responsible for enormous human suffering. We take note again of the fact that you work with two sizes and two weights, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u43	Colleagues, on February 18, the Foreign Minister had the opportunity to meet again with her Yemeni counterpart, Dr.Ben Mubarak, in Munich. They discussed the latest political, military and humanitarian developments in Yemen. The Belgian position was reiterated. You mention in your questions the recent informal discussions between Saudi Arabia and Iran. Belgium calls for the continuation of these exchanges, which can contribute to stability in the Arab-Persian Gulf and to the resolution of the Yemeni conflict. We encourage Iran and Saudi Arabia to find common ground on confidence-building measures. The Minister for Foreign Affairs visited Oman and the United Arab Emirates in early February on the occasion of the official visit of the sovereigns. The conflict in Yemen, as well as other regional issues, was discussed with both his Omani counterpart and his Emirati counterpart. His visit to the United Arab Emirates coincides with the attacks of Huthis rebel drones on civilian airport infrastructure in Abu Dhabi. The Minister for Foreign Affairs therefore reiterated Belgium's firm condemnation of these attacks as direct attacks on the security and sovereignty of the Emirates. Within the two Gulf States, the importance of the political process led by UN Special Envoy Hans Grundberg was reiterated, as well as the need for an inclusive political solution. The Minister expressed her concerns about the human rights situation. In early April, a two-month military truce in Yemen was announced by the United Nations and accepted by all parties. This is an essential constructive step towards a lasting inclusive solution in Yemen. We call on the parties to continue to respect this truce. I also note other positive developments in the conflict, such as the creation of the Presidential Leadership Council and the recent meeting between Special Envoy Grundberg and Houthi leadership in Sanaa. The human rights situation in Yemen is very worrying and is a constant focus on the Yemen dossier for Belgium. During the previous Universal Periodic Research (UPO) Yemen had adopted two Belgian recommendations: one on women's rights and gender-related violence and one on the recruitment and deployment of children in armed conflicts. Belgium continues to monitor these issues closely and systematically raises them in bilateral contacts and in multilateral fora. In principle, Yemen will report to the next UPO on the state of implementation of the recommendations. At the last session of the Human Rights Council in March, Belgium supported a joint declaration calling on all parties to fulfil their obligations under international human rights law and international humanitarian law. Within the Group of Friends, we continue to explore all the possibilities of re-establishing a mechanism of the Human Rights Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u44	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u45	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the answer, but allow me to put some things in perspective. The war in Yemen has been going on for over seven years. There's a high human toll. 400,000 victims have already been killed, including many defenceless civilians and children. People are suffering from malnutrition and a great deal of deprivation. Many people have fallen into a humanitarian catastrophe at the moment when Saudi Arabia has begun to interfere with the conflict and has damaged Yemen's sovereignty. A terrible and murderous blockade of the main port city and a supply line for vital resources and medicines in Hodeida has been established. Saudi Arabia has bombed Yemen and is being held over by the US and indirectly by us. Saudi Arabia will not be sanctioned. They don't get called up. They shall not be held accountable. The fixing of these two sizes and weights is really poignant. According to António Guterres, the UN Secretary-General, the war in Yemen is also the biggest humanitarian catastrophe of the 21st century. I have to come to the same conclusion again. It's even worse. Saudi Arabia is even actively armed, including by the US and even by our country. I note that trade relations and geopolitical relations are often more important than human rights, than international law, than humanitarian law. This confirms once again that the geopolitics and the universality of human rights are not a good marriage. This is being used and used on the one hand to impose sanctions. When it comes to geopolitical allies of the West, it seems that this is not so important, of which I take note.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u46	The file to which you refer was brought to the attention of Foreign Affairs last year when it was processed by the Intergovernmental Committee for the promotion of the return of cultural property to its country of origin or its return in case of illegal appropriation. Belgium is not a member of this UNESCO Committee, but follows its work as an observer. The 1970 Convention has been ratified by parliaments (federal, Community and Regional). Belgium deposited its instrument of ratification on 31 March 2009. The Convention was published in the Belgian Monitor on 18 March 2009 and entered into force on 30 June 2009. Belgium is therefore a party to this Convention. Nevertheless, in this particular case, Belgium considers that this is a civil case between the parties and that it is therefore not a party to the disputes. Since the statue was purchased in 2007, the 1970 Convention does not apply temporally since it entered into force in Belgium only on 30 June 2009. Belgium encourages Nigeria and Belgian individuals to find a concerted solution. In addition, this dossier goes beyond the competence of Foreign Affairs and also concerns other departments. Foreign Affairs will closely monitor this issue in consultation with the departments in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u47	I'm still skeptical. The main point is that our country has ratified the 1970 UNESCO Convention. It's fundamental. But it would not have transposed it into Belgian law! I'm leaving out the Nigeri mask case. So it still depends on other departments. But the Department of Foreign Affairs is the one that ratifies conventions, negotiates them etc. Why is the Convention not yet transposed? On which ministry, on which department, on which minister would it depend so that we can question and understand what the problem is, regardless of this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u48	I'm talking about ratification. The Convention was published in the Belgian Monitor on 19 June 2009 and entered into force in respect of Belgium on 30 June 2009.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u49	It is indeed ratified. However, it must be transposed into Belgian law (law, royal decree,...) and this would not have been done. I don't know why. That's why I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u50	I suggest you come back to you later on for this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u51	I am trying to understand and follow the path to find out why there was no transposition. In the present case, that of the Nigerian work, it is a little easy to fall behind the argument that it is a matter between two civil parties. The state's shrinking. But as far as transposition is concerned, it is the responsibility of the Belgian State.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u52	Mr Secretary of State, the international Kurdish community is calling the alarm because Erdogan has launched a new military offensive in Iraqi Kurdistan. On 14 April heavy air bombardments began and on 17 April Turkey dropped soldiers in guerilla areas with air support from fighter helicopters and planes. At the end of April, the Kurdistan National Congress (KNC), a Kurdish international organisation, established a letter to the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons and to the UN following the use of chemical weapons in South Kurdistan in Iraq. According to them, Erdogan uses international attention around Ukraine to continue his neo-Ottoman conquests against the Kurdish territories in the Middle East. The KNC demands that the international community appoint researchers in the affected areas of Iraq, put an end to the use of chemical weapons there and take a strong position against Turkish violations of international law, sovereignty and human rights. Mr Secretary of State, I have a few questions for you. Are you aware of the use of chemical weapons by Turkey in Iraq? Have you been in contact recently with your Turkish counterpart or with the Turkish ambassador, or with your Iraqi colleague or the Iraqi ambassador? If so, what was discussed? Will you address these human rights violations by Turkey in the relevant international fora and in bilateral contacts with Ankara? What initiatives or sanctions will you argue for if war crimes are determined with certainty by Turkey? What measures does Belgium intend to take to protect the Kurdish population in the affected region? Will humanitarian aid be provided? If so, what does it mean in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u53	Mrs Samyn, as you know, Turkey has repeatedly intervened in northern Iraq since the early 1990s in order to attack the PKK's base of operations. However, Turkish interventions have increased in recent years and the nature of these operations appears to have changed, with the deployment of more ground forces, operations deeper on Iraqi territory and, above all, the establishment of permanent military posts in the northern part of Iraq. The presence of the PKK, which used to be largely confined to its headquarters in the Qandil Mountains, has expanded geographically over the years along the Iraqi-Turkish border area, but also deeper in Iraqi Kurdistan and even further into the Sinjar region. Turkey justifies its interventions on the basis of its right to self-defense under Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations. However, in order to be legal under international law, this operation should have been approved by the Iraqi authorities. The Turkish authorities stated in April that the Iraqi authorities in Baghdad and the Kurdish administration in Erbil had been informed of the operation and had approved it. That was not the case, however, as the Iraqi authorities summoned the Turkish ambassador to Baghdad and publicly sued the operation. This intervention therefore violates the territorial integrity of Iraq. Unlike the Turkish operations in Northern Syria, which were directly contrary to the interests of the international coalition against Daesh, this new Turkish operation is not expected to have any lasting international consequences or lead to sanctions against Turkey. The international coalition as such has not taken a position on this issue. The presence of the PKK is not only a security problem for Turkey, but also for the Iraqi Government and the autonomous Kurdish administration in the northern part of the country. At the same time as Turkish troops invaded Iraq, the Iraqi army itself carried out operations against the PKK in the Sinjar region. There have also been regular violent confrontations between peshmerga and Kurdish self-defense fighters under the control of the main political parties and leaders of the Iraqi regional government of Kurdistan and PKK in Iraqi Kurdistan. I would like to add that the Kurdish regional government in northern Iraq and Turkey seem to coordinate their actions in the fight against the PKK well but that this communication and cooperation remains largely under the radar; perhaps also in order not to overpower the central power in Baghdad. Like its EU partners and the US, Belgium considers the PKK to be a terrorist organisation. Our country is aware of the fact that the PKK is using the northern Iraqi territory as a base and can therefore, to some extent, understand Turkey's legitimate security concerns, but regrets the lack of coordination with the Iraqi Government. There is concern about the humanitarian situation in northern Iraq. Although Iraq is not one of the countries with a geographical priority for Belgian military aid, Belgium indirectly supports the response to this humanitarian crisis. Belgium tries to make a large part of its resources available to the international humanitarian system in a flexible way through financial support to various international organisations and contributions to flexible funds. In 2020 and 2021, Belgium contributed €5 million to the Disaster Relief Emergency Fund of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Associations. This flexible fund itself paid more than 1 million Swiss francs to Iraq in 2021. Mrs Samyn, you asked a specific question about the possible use of chemical weapons by the Turkish army in northern Iraq. I can only tell you that no official body in the region has yet confirmed this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u54	Mr Secretary of State, it seems logical that the latter should be examined. I think chemical weapons have been used. Your answer does not reassure me: we cannot deny that, in the midst of all the commotions surrounding the war in Ukraine, Turkey is engaged in a new military offensive to turn its nostalgia into reality to the Ottoman Empire. Erdogan wants a Turkish Empire in the Middle East, with the Caucasus, the Eastern Mediterranean and North Africa. This can be seen from all Turkish military operations in these areas: there is the permanent occupation of northern Cyprus, the war in Nagorno-Karabakh, operations in northern Syria, interventions in Libya and, of course, the recent attacks in northern Iraq against the Kurds. In doing so, Erdogan never shy away from gross violations of international law and humanitarian war law, just think of directing jihadist groups and using those banned chemical weapons against the Kurds. Let's put aside our naivety. Dictator Erdogan once and for all shows what he is: an enemy, and absolutely no ally. He has no place within NATO and certainly not within the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u55	Mr Verduyckt, in reply to your question on the consultation round held in Geneva from 6 to 8 April on the political declaration on the use of explosive weapons in populated areas, I can tell you that the Belgian position has been established following contacts with Defence, other NATO countries and civil society. Belgium has adopted a constructive attitude and is in favour of a political statement on this issue which strengthens international humanitarian law in clear terms. We stress the importance of respecting the fundamental principles of distinction, proportionality and precaution in the use of explosive weapons in populated areas. In line with Parliament's recommendations, our country has put forward a number of concrete proposals. In order to avoid arbitrary impacts on citizens and infrastructures, as you put forward in your question, we suggested that occasional impacts should be included in the political declaration as set out in Article 57 of the Additional Protocol to the Geneva Conventions. Belgium also wanted to clarify the passage on humanitarian access in the declaration. We also supported the proposals to strengthen the language of victim support and to highlight the specific vulnerability of children. The consultation was conducted in a constructive atmosphere, but important points remain. The Irish Presidency will try to resolve them through bilateral consultations. An additional consultation will then take place at the end of May.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u56	Mr Secretary of State, I know that these kinds of discussions, whether on this or on killer robots or nuclear disarmament, always take very small steps forward. If you say that Belgium has acted constructively there, then what Parliament had asked the government has also happened. That would be a good thing. I will read the answer again quietly, but at first sight I am satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u57	Madam President, Secretary of State, a new overwhelming report by Amnesty International, published in early April, again reports on the deterioration of the working conditions of migrant workers in Qatar, which will host the football World Cup at the end of the year. The report is particularly concerned with the working conditions of security personnel in private places, such as hotels or banks, which, according to the survey, are subjected to forced labour. For example, wages are systematically reduced, sometimes even retained by employers, and rest periods are limited, if not non-existent. Unfortunately, this situation is only a symptom of the general human rights situation, including workers, in Qatar. Amnesty reports that, for the past year, despite its commitments, the Qatari government's efforts have now simply stopped. The reforms in working conditions which he had undertaken, are not, or only partially, implemented. Mr Secretary of State, can you give us an update on the evolution of the human rights situation in Qatar in recent months? Has the situation worsened? Is the Qatari government effectively abandoning the implementation of the reforms it had undertaken to carry out? What control does Belgium, the European Union or the ILO have in this respect? Should the human rights situation continue to worsen in the coming months, could Belgium revoke its participation in the World Cup or, at the very least, impose a political and diplomatic boycott? What is the government's position? Who does the government intend to send to attend the on-site competition? Apart from reiterating its encouragement to continue its efforts to improve working conditions, does our country envisage concretely calling on Qatar to investigate urgently human rights violations in the private security sector, to publish its findings and to guarantee reparations to the victims? In view of the imminent World Cup, does Belgium intend to call on FIFA to strengthen its preventive measures with regard to human rights violations, particularly in the private security sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u58	Madam President, honourable Member, I can assure you that the human rights situation in Qatar, including the situation of workers' rights, is being closely monitored by the FPS Foreign Affairs in Brussels and by our embassy in Doha. The issue of human rights is systematically raised in bilateral contacts between Belgium and Qatar at both the administrative and political levels. At the multilateral level, it should be recalled that Belgium actively participated in the universal periodic review of Qatar in 2019. In general, Belgium was aware of the concerns regarding the rights of migrant workers and encouraged Qatar to take reform measures in that area. Existing cooperation between the Qatari authorities and the International Labour Organization must also be continued in order to help improve working conditions in Qatar. In addition, Belgium considers that the Qatari authorities' contacts with NGOs as well as the human rights dialogue between the European Union and Qatar are important vehicles for the exchange and promotion of change. The last human rights dialogue took place in June 2021. On that occasion, mention had been made of workers' rights. Through this constant dialogue, Qatar is constantly reminded of the importance of reforms and their implementation in a sustainable manner, with a long-term perspective going well beyond the horizon of this year's World Cup. Belgium will continue to monitor the situation and will plead with the Qatari authorities, during our meetings, for an improvement in the situation of foreign workers in Qatar. With regard to a possible sporting boycott of the World Cup, such a measure is exclusively a matter for the autonomous decision of the sports authorities of the participating nations. More than six months from the start of the event, the government has not yet made a decision on its possible performance at the World Cup in Qatar in November and December. Finally, it should be recalled that Qatar plays an important role on the regional scene and on subjects of great interest to Belgium, such as the fight against terrorism and the security of the region, for example the crucial role that Qatar played in the evacuation of Belgian nationals and beneficiaries from Afghanistan following the Taliban's takeover of power. Maintaining a frank and constructive dialogue is therefore essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u59	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I hope that Belgium will still take advantage of this World Cup to send an extremely clear signal. I understand that, on some issues, Qatar is a partner. But it is still an extremely embarrassing partner, when it comes to talking about workers' rights and the rights of migrant workers in particular, not to mention its involvement in a whole series of other issues and in economic and sporting circuits in Europe. I think we sometimes walk like sleepwalkers to this country. It's quite surprising.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u60	Madam President, I refer to the text of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u61	Madam President, I am going to follow the good example.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u62	Mr De Smet, in response to your questions about student Ahmed Samir Santawy, Belgium shares your concerns about the human rights situation in Egypt. The FPS Foreign Affairs monitors this situation closely and systematically raises it in bilateral discussions, as well as in international fora. This issue was, of course, addressed at the meeting of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs with Egyptian President Al-Sissi. I also refer in this connection to the answers to the previous parliamentary questions discussed in this committee. I come to the specific case of Mr Santawy. Since his arrest and conviction last year, the FPS Foreign Affairs in Brussels and the Belgian Embassy in Cairo have followed the case closely. As you know, Mr Santawy was studying at the University of Central Europe in Vienna when he was arrested. He was in possession of an Austrian residence permit. That is why, first of all, Belgium is working closely with our Austrian colleagues in the discussions with Egypt. Like you, the FPS Foreign Affairs has taken note of the work of the Forgiveness Committee and is closely following its work, which, according to our information, is still ongoing. As you know, Mr Santawy is currently on trial in a new process, in which a number of sessions have already taken place. Representatives of the Belgian Embassy attend each session of that trial. That is still happening and our country is following it very closely. There's no way we're gonna be able to take a preliminaries on this one. On the ground, the follow-up is coordinated with the Austrian colleagues. On the basis of these contacts, Mr Santawy's situation was discussed in the appropriate fora with the Egyptian authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u63	Madam President, I thank the Secretary of State for his response and thank our country for continuing to follow this worrying issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u64	It is indeed a good thing that the Foreign Office is following this closely. This case is also clearly followed by NGOs, including Amnesty International, which regularly addresses parliamentarians to bring the matter before you and your ministry. This case is taken as an example of human rights violations in Egypt.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u65	Madam President, I also refer to the text of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u66	Madam President, I also refer to the text of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u67	As part of its one-China policy, Belgium is in favour of Taiwan's participation in the technical work of specialised international organisations in the multilateral field, if it promotes its functioning and the agenda serves the global interest. That is the concept of meaningful participation, whereby the concrete modalities of Taiwanese participation must be discussed between the People's Republic of China and Taiwan. Our country calls on both sides to find pragmatic solutions in this respect. Within the World Health Organization (WHO), associations, NGOs and territories that are not sovereign states may be granted observer status at the World Health Assembly (WHA). From 2009 to 2016, Taiwan participated in the AMS as an observer, with the consent of China. Since then, China has not approved Taiwan's request to be admitted as an observer. Within WHO, Belgium advocates a global health approach that is inclusive and leaves no one behind. This need has proved all the more relevant in the context of the covid-19 pandemic. Belgium considers that it is more essential than ever that cooperation under the auspices of the WHO should be as efficient and transparent as possible and that the expertise of everyone can be valuable in doing so. This position was recently reiterated to the Chinese embassy in Brussels. Based on Taiwan's experience in managing pandemics and other public health challenges, Belgium considers it appropriate, as in the past two years, to invite Taiwan as an observer to the upcoming WHA and to strengthen Taiwan's involvement in the technical work of the WHO. In line with this position, this year's Foreign Affairs Office is in contact with the relevant authorities and other similar countries in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u68	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your explanation of this problem, which has been discussed several times in committee. You have emphasised the principle of meaningful participation, for which you are grateful. It is of course extremely important that a country such as Taiwan should also be fully part of the World Health Organization and World Health Assembly, as an observer. You know that Taiwan has already called for the support of the European Parliament in the past, and of various national parliaments. We have also seen in the past that Taiwan has been particularly successful in combating the corona pandemic with regard to its health policy. It also has a health system and a medical capacity of world class. However, Taiwan is excluded from the WTO. Of course, China's non-recognition of Taiwan as a sovereign state has everything to do with that. First of all, I would like to thank you for maintaining the principle which has already been emphasised here by Minister Goffin and Mrs Wilmès. I am therefore pleased that we are continuing this line. It is also good that you are also seeking contacts with your partners in the field of foreign policy. I would like to say once again that our group supports the recognition of Taiwan's sovereignty here. We have also done so with a resolution here in Parliament, and we therefore support Taiwan's demand to be a full member of international institutions of any kind, including the WTO.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u69	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. I am pleased that our country is inviting Taiwan as an observer in this international organization. It is true that Taiwan has both great expertise and great experience. This country has been at the forefront of the tsunami of the Covid-19 and yet it has excellent results. I think we would all obviously benefit from Taiwan's experience in the fight against the pandemic. On the other hand, I regret that China is removing it today, in contravention of WHO rules, since unrecognized states may have observer status. China itself violates WHO rules and I do not understand very well how this is allowed to be done because these rules are very clear in this regard. I very much hope that Belgium will have a proactive attitude in this area. China's intimidation of Taiwan is known. For my part, I believe that Taiwan's future belongs to the Taiwanese people and that it is indeed up to them to decide their future. It is certainly a country that deserves to be included in international organizations. As a democracy, Taiwan would certainly bring much to this part of the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u70	Minister, I am pleased to hear that there is continued pressure on colleagues from the People's Republic of China to allow Taiwan to participate in the 75th meeting of the WHA. I have also heard from Taiwanese colleagues that Belgium is sending a smaller delegation to the World Health Assembly as a kind of signal, unless you contradict it. I think that is a good signal to make it clear that countries should be able to participate in this meeting. It strengthens the appeal to China. It is a good thing that we continue to press diplomatic pressure in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u71	Mrs Van Bossuyt, like all other EU Member States, Belgium has supported the European Commission's approach that the protocol should continue to exist in its current structure and therefore cannot be renegotiated. Within this framework, however, there is considerable scope for technical and practical measures to reduce administrative burdens and obstacles to trade between the British Isles and Northern Ireland. European Commissioner Šefčovič is working on far-reaching and concrete proposals on which he is still negotiating with the British Foreign Minister. Consequently, Belgium regrets the announcement on Tuesday by Secretary of State Liz Truss of legislation that would render parts of the protocol unenforceable. If this would lead to a unilateral breach of the protocol, the EU should respond with appropriate and proportionate measures. The EU Member States will then have to consider the measures proposed by the European Commission. The restoration of a constructive relationship between the EU and the UK, based on the correct and full compliance with mutual treaty commitments, should remain the objective. A UK refusal to properly implement the protocol would put Ireland in a situation where it would no longer be able to ensure that the rules of the customs union and the internal market are complied with and enforced on its own territory, with the risk that that situation would move further towards the rest of the EU.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u72	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I think the starting point pacta sunt servanda here is certainly correct. This is an agreement which has been negotiated for a long time, with which the United Kingdom has agreed and which it has also signed. It is not a question of saying one year later that it is no longer possible for them to do so because of political internal affairs, especially with the DUP in Northern Ireland, which says that they do not want to participate in the government as long as nothing changes that protocol. It's bad that the relationships are put under pressure that way. You say that there may be technical and practical measures, but they are already there at the moment. Think of the medicine and the sausage history for which there was a grace period. That's what we're doing. Against the background of what is happening in Ukraine, we must not forget that one person is benefiting from tensions with the United Kingdom. That is Putin, who can only be happy if the European Member States are separated. For the time being, fortunately, this is not the case and we are on the same page. It is very important to bear in mind that this does not undermine the peace agreement between Ireland and Northern Ireland. The slightest change to the Good Friday agreement could lead to a revival of the conflict and we do not know where we would end up. A trade war between the European Union and the United Kingdom, at times when there is already a very limited supply of certain products due to corona, which is now reinforced by the war in Ukraine, is not appropriate either. So this is something that needs to be closely monitored and the European Union must certainly not be blackmailed. Pacta sunt servanda, both sides have signed and we must do everything we can to protect the internal market, the cornerstone of European cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u73	I had tabled two questions with regard to Hungary. The first concerns the remarks allegedly made by the Hungarian Prime Minister on 12 February. In his annual speech on the state of the nation, he would have mentioned a possible exit of Hungary from the European Union if it did not show more "tolerance" towards it. The Hungarian government would have "made offers of tolerance in Brussels and Berlin on several occasions". These threats obviously refer to the procedures which have fortunately been initiated by the European Union with regard to Hungary. The first is the infringement procedure launched by the European Commission last July following the adoption of a homophobic law. This procedure, if the Commission considers it appropriate, must still be referred to the Court of Justice of the European Union. Other measures include the retention of EU funds NextGenerationEU or the cross-compliance mechanism which the Court of Justice recently approved and which the European Commission decided to initiate on 27 April last against Hungary in the light of suspicions of corruption. The European Union is, of course, right to take these measures. The rule of law and the values of the European Union must be respected in order to enter, but also to remain there and to receive funds. However, these threats to exit the European Union, particularly since Brexit, must be taken seriously. Since then, Mr Orban's spokesman has denied the will to leave the European Union, but he has nevertheless stated that the European Union is conducting "a holy war, a jihad under the slogan of the rule of law against Hungary". And so, if the European Union does not show more "tolerance" towards Hungary, it will not be possible to continue on a common path. The will to get out of the European Union is there, even without saying. Do you believe that the threat of exit from the European Union is credible, while accession to it is supported by almost 80% of the Hungarian population? Mr Orban now has an even more comfortable parliamentary majority following the last parliamentary elections. Is the infringement procedure launched by the European Union not likely to reinforce Mr Orban in this desire, disguised or not, to leave the European Union? What are our levers if the Hungarian government did not respond to this procedure within the two-month deadline, so by 27 January? Mr Orban referred to the tolerance offers that Budapest had made to the attention of Brussels and Berlin on several occasions. Could you let me know what he's alluding to? Finally, how did the various Member States of the Union accept these declarations? Have you made direct contact with the Hungarian authorities or the Hungarian ambassador in Brussels? What position do you intend to adopt with regard to Hungary on this issue? This brings me to my second question on the post-Hungarian parliamentary elections, which, as I said, were won by the Prime Minister's party, Fidesz, on February 3. It should be noted that Hungarians were also called upon to vote on an anti-LGBT referendum that aimed to prohibit the "promotion" of homosexuality in schools, in line with the homophobic law assimilating LGBT people to paedophiles, a law that was passed just a year ago. Fortunately, this referendum was declared invalid because of a lack of sufficient participation. Nevertheless, Mr Orban's re-election gives him full powers to continue his increasingly populist and homophobic measures. That is why we must end the measures taken by the European Union. Mr Secretary of State, following the invalidation of this anti-LGBT referendum, Mr Orban imposed heavy fines on sixteen NGOs who had called for a blank vote. How did Belgium express its indignation at this measure? Does our country envisage supporting Hungarian civil society and, in particular, LGBTQIA+ associations, including through a human rights fund, as was done by the Dutch government. In its brand new LGBTQIA+ plan, which was presented to the press yesterday, the government refers to the fact that Belgian diplomatic and consular posts should ensure greater interaction with local actors. Can you give us more information about this? How can this support for Hungarian civil society be realized, in line with the plan that was presented yesterday? Finally, should the Commission's July 2008 proposal on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment of persons without distinction in particular as regards sexual orientation, which is still blocked by certain irreducible states of the European Union, not be put back to the European agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u74	With regard to the statements allegedly made by Viktor Orbán, with regard to a possible exit from the European Union, I note that these statements were relayed by the press before being later denied by official Hungarian sources. This controversy was part of the election campaign launched on 12 February in Hungary ahead of the general elections held on 3 April 2022. In this electoral context, we can regret the rather sharp positions taken by some Hungarian politicians, as well as a narrative that aims to stir up a feeling of opposition to the European Union while presenting the Orbán government as the ultimate defender of Hungarian national interests. Moreover, it is under the guise of respect for these values and national identity that the Hungarian government demands a certain tolerance of the European institutions with regard to the Hungarian national situation. The European Union must of course respect the national identity of each Member State, but it cannot under any circumstances be used to evade the obligation to respect the values set out in Article 2 of the Treaties, including respect for the rule of law. Our country regularly expresses its deep concern about respect for the rule of law, respect for human rights and, in particular, respect for minority rights in Hungary, including discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. This is a priority of our foreign human rights policy. This issue is regularly addressed in the General Affairs Council, in our bilateral discussions with the Hungarian government and through our diplomatic representation in Budapest. The result of the recent referendum in Hungary on the sex education of minors, particularly with regard to homosexuality and transidentity, has indeed been declared invalid, as the required quota of valid votes has not been reached. On 8 April 2022, the Hungarian National Electoral Commission fined 18 NGOs that had conducted a campaign calling on Hungarian voters to vote invalidally in the referendum. Belgium strongly and unequivocally condemns this sanction decision. Some NGOs have since challenged this fine before the Hungarian Supreme Court. The fine imposed on Háttér Society was upheld, while the fines imposed on the other 17 NGOs were rejected. A new appeal against the decision to maintain the €8,000 fine for Háttér Society was not accepted by the Constitutional Court, which declared on 21 April 2022 that it was not competent to review the appeal. The fine imposed on this NGO is therefore maintained and the NGO has since paid EUR 8 000. With regard to the status of the infringement procedure on the Hungarian LGBTQI+ law, the European Commission sent a letter of formal notice to Hungary on 15 July 2021, to which Budapest replied on 15 September 2021. Dissatisfied with the Hungarian response, the European Commission moved to the next stage of the infringement procedure by sending Hungary a reasoned opinion on 2 December 2021. The committee is currently analysing Hungary's response to this reasoned opinion and could shortly refer it to the EU Court of Justice. Belgium fully supports the Commission in this procedure and hopes that it will soon produce a positive result. With regard to the proposal for a transversal non-discrimination directive of 2008, the various Presidencies of the Council are continuing the technical work on this directive with a particularly broad scope. As this proposal is based on Article 19 TFEU, its adoption requires a unanimous vote by the Council, which explains the difficulties in arriving at a general approach. Since 2008, Belgium has always been involved in this issue and urges each Presidency to continue the negotiation work with a view to reaching an agreement within the Council. This approach should also be pursued during our Presidency in 2024. Finally, regarding your question on budgetary conditionality mechanisms relating to the rule of law, Commission President Ursula von der Leyen announced to the European Parliament on 5 April that the Commission will activate this mechanism in the case of Hungary. On 27 April, the Commission sent Hungary the written notification which officially initiates the procedure. Hungary then has one to three months to submit its comments. Once the comments are received, the Commission will decide within an indicative period of one month whether to proceed and propose substantive suspension measures. The procedure could then last several months before reaching the Council table, which will act by qualified majority – at least 55% of EU countries, representing at least 65% of the EU population.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u75	Thank you, Minister, for your fairly clear answer as to the importance of the values that should be defended here. With regard to the question of what the Hungarian minister would have said, it is true that they have been denied, but I do not think that there is any reason to mislead him. For several years the Hungarian Prime Minister has been using EU funds to finance anti-EU campaigns among the people. A few years ago, all the people of Hungary received a paper in their mailbox telling them how harmful the EU was to them. This is simply unacceptable. That is why I thank you very much for reminding you that the EU was not only an economic union, but also a union of values. We really need to stay together, especially in these times of crisis. As far as the infringement procedure is concerned, I understand that the ultimate challenge will be to obtain a qualified majority. I hope that this will be achieved and that Mr Orbán's isolationist positions will not allow him to be supported by enough States. With regard to support for the LGBT community, I mean that you condemn the sanctions imposed on NGOs defending the rights of this community. This is particularly important in this month of struggle against homophobia. However, when you say that certain fines have been maintained by decision of the Constitutional Court, you must realize that the Constitutional Court, like other Hungarian courts, is completely politicized and that it is Mr Orbán's friends who sit there. It is therefore necessary to implement more concrete and lasting support to Hungarian civil society, precisely when this is in line with the plan that was presented yesterday to support the LGBT community. The Netherlands has done so with a fund to help associations. I would have liked to have received more commitment from you in relation to what might be a solution in this area. Finally, you mentioned the importance of the rotating presidency of the European Union in relation to discrimination against persons on the basis of their sexual orientation. In 2024 Belgium will hold its turn of the rotating presidency, precisely with Spain and Hungary. A strategy should therefore be defined for this rotating presidency. It will not be obvious, but know that we will support you since the opposition in this very perilous process.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u76	Minister, on 25 January last, the law effectively prohibiting IVG in Poland caused a new victim. Her name was Agnieszka. She died as a result of sepsis after having been refused abortion for several days. Her death occurred a few months after that of another woman, Izabela, who lost her life last September as a result of a septic shock after she too had seen herself refusing an abortion. This new death, that of Agnieszka, aroused the indignation of the democratic opposition in Poland but also of the human rights organisations which, in a joint communiqué, found that Polish law which allows abortion only in case of rape, incest or endangerment of the mother, had "a devastating impact on the lives of women". Our Parliament has reacted strongly to this legislation by adopting a motion for a resolution last December which calls on your Government not only to condemn this policy but also to use all the levers necessary to defend the rights of the women who are the hostages. Time is running out because today, an activist, Justyna Wydrzyńska, faces three years in prison for helping a woman abort. A first hearing was held in April and the next hearing will be held in July. Has this new death been reflected in our bilateral contacts with Poland or multilaterally, in particular through the European Union? What follow-up is being given to this motion for a resolution on Poland and, more specifically, to the four more specific requests on the right to abortion in that country? Finally, do you intend to go beyond the demands contained in the resolution in order to give Poland a clear signal? If so, how? Thank you. [[I'm]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u77	Mr President, Mrs Rohonyi, on 22 October 2020, the Polish Constitutional Court ruled in favour of an extremely strict limitation on access to abortion. Following this judgement, on 27 January 2021, the Polish government issued a ruling of the Constitutional Court prohibiting abortion in cases of serious and irreversible fetal impairment or incurable illness threatening the life of the foetus, while the vast majority of abortions in Poland were performed due to fetal malformations. In other words, women can no longer have abortions in Poland, except in cases of rape, incest or when the mother's life is in danger. I am aware of the serious impact of these measures on Polish women but do not wish to comment on specific cases. This development of women's rights in Poland, particularly reproductive and sexual rights, is of great concern to Belgium. Even in cases where the mother is in danger, some hospitals rely on legal grounds to postpone decisions. These disturbing developments are closely monitored by our services. There are also regular contacts with Polish civil society. Indeed, women's rights, gender equality and non-discrimination are priorities of Belgium's foreign policy. The achievement of gender equality is not possible without the guarantee of the rights and sexual and reproductive health of women and girls throughout their lives. In the current context of an international decline in women's rights and gender equality, Belgium regularly addresses these issues at both European and bilateral multilateral level. Belgium calls for the most progressive possible position on the issue of sexual and reproductive health and rights in the negotiations, on the relevant resolutions and conclusions both within the European Union and in the various United Nations forums. Within the Council of Europe, Belgium regularly raises the issue of sexual and reproductive rights in Poland. In particular, as part of the follow-up measures to decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, she recalled the importance Belgium attached to women's rights, gender equality, non-discrimination and called on the Polish authorities to respect the sexual and reproductive health and rights of women and girls. With regard to the financial support granted to the collective Abortion Without Borders, I invite you to question Secretary of State Schlitz and Minister Vandenbroucke. Finally, the procedure pursuant to Article 7 of the Treaty of the European Union for Poland, initiated by the Commission in 2017, mainly concerns the lack of independence of the judiciary in Poland and therefore does not constitute the most obvious framework for denouncing policy on abortion in Poland. However, Belgium supports the idea of examining with the Commission and the other Member States, which are also of the same opinion, whether an extension of the scope of the Article 7 procedure of the Treaty on European Union for Poland could lead to better protection of the rule of law in that country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u78	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers, which have two nuances. First, you say that you are aware of the difficulties posed by the new abortion legislation and how it endangers women's health. Secondly, you say that you cannot rule on specific cases. The particular cases I mentioned are emblematic of a much more global situation which is the one you have denounced. I would like to hear you more strongly condemn the situation of these women in Poland today and the many Ukrainian refugees who must be able to have a safe and legal abortion in Poland and who cannot do so in the light of Polish legislation. I have mentioned an emblematic case on which the Polish justice system intends to take a particularly firm decision to show other women who would be tempted to abort or assist other women that they cannot under penalty of imprisonment. It is important to be able to take diplomatic measures – and I thank you for that – but we must go beyond the infringement procedure at European level and by supporting these associations. I will ask Mrs Schlitz to do so. It is very important to be able to bounce back on the call made by the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union for the right to a legal and safe abortion to be finally included in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. I would not understand that Belgium, which has been a forerunner in this area, does not support this important appeal for women's rights throughout the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u79	Secretary of State, we remain in the same theme. You see how much danger this right is in all parts of the world. It is also a cursor for a democracy. On 3 May, the Supreme Court of the United States confirmed the authenticity of a preliminary draft ruling calling for an end to the constitutional right to abortion. It will be the subject of negotiations until its publication, which is expected to take place before 30 June. This preliminary draft decision completely challenges a decision taken by the Supreme Court in 1973, Roe v. Wade, which protected women's right to abortion. It is even a question of setting aside that decision. It's clear what a step backwards it's all about here. As a result, the U.S. President ruled that the US Supreme Court's argument in this case went "far beyond" the abortion and that this potentially called into question "a whole series" of other rights currently enjoyed by U.S. women. If this conclusion were to be adopted by the Supreme Court by June next year, each State would again be free to authorize or formally prohibit abortions; an opportunity that the most conservative States would not miss. Already today, half of the U.S. states are hindering access to abortion with a period of reflection, the obligation to listen to the heartbeat of the foetus or a parental permit for teenage girls who want to abort. This has prompted the American House of Representatives to pass a law that guarantees the right to abortion. But the text is blocked in the Senate, where the Democrats do not have a sufficient majority. Mr Secretary of State, what is Belgium's position on the potential regression of the right to abortion in the United States? I would like to stress your answer in this regard, because no later than a few minutes ago, the Minister of Justice replied to my colleague, Mrs Jiroflée, that it was not appropriate to interfere in a court decision taken, or which could be taken, by another State. I think it's particularly shocking. Today we need to know Belgium's official position on this issue. How can our state and the European Union exert pressure (diplomatic or otherwise) on the United States, given the separation of powers but, at the same time, the politicization of the Supreme Court? Do you think that this decision of the American Supreme Court could encourage some European states, more conservative to follow it? We have just mentioned Hungary and Poland at the moment. If so, what strategy is being put in place by the government to avoid this as long as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u80	On the right to abortion in the USA, Belgium does not take an official position on the basis of a preliminary draft decision because it was a preliminary draft. We must wait for the decisions of the US judicial authorities, but also, with full respect for the separation of powers, the official reactions of the Executive. I will therefore avoid making assumptions at this stage, for example, about the impact of a future decision on certain Europeans. Women's rights, gender equality and non-discrimination are priorities of Belgian foreign policy. The achievement of gender equality is not possible without the guarantee of the rights and sexual and reproductive health of women and girls throughout their lives. Belgium systematically calls for the most progressive possible position on issues of sexual and reproductive health and rights in the negotiations on relevant resolutions and conclusions both within the EU and in appropriate UN forums, such as the Commission on the Status of Women and the Commission on Population and Development. Since President Biden took office, the EU has been able to count on the US as allies in issues related to sexual and reproductive health and law. With regard to the analysis of the anti-gender movements provided for in the national action plan for women, peace and security, I invite you to question Secretary of State Schlitz in so far as this action falls within his competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u81	Your answer finally goes in the same direction as that of the Minister of Justice, namely that the Belgian government therefore has no official position on the decision to be taken by the Supreme Court. I don't think we should be fooling ourselves about his intentions to see his composition, which is mostly ultra-conservative, with Trump's friends who could have been appointed before the end of his term. I sincerely regret this, because if you do not hear you condemn this possible position, you should be told to make commitments in order to prepare for this decision. I don't want to wait until women are in real trouble to hear, "Oh, what can we do to support them?" It is important to prepare to do so to reassure women who express their concern both in the U.S. and around the world and to prepare for support measures to support them, as Canada has done. Canada has expressed its readiness to support women who will no longer be able to have a safe and legal abortion in the United States. All progressive countries must make commitments to that end. A motion for a resolution by my colleagues in the Open-VLD is aimed at supporting measures that focus mainly on the European level. I believe that support for women must go far beyond the borders of the European Union. Indeed, today, half of the US states could formally prohibit abortion, which would penalise women who need the most support, because it is precisely they who are most in difficulty and the most disadvantaged. We must, more than ever, stand in solidarity with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u82	Secretary of State, on 7 May, we learned that the Taliban had further restricted the rights and freedoms of Afghan women by ordering them to wear burqa in public. This is an umpteenth violation of their right to dispose of their bodies but also to move freely in public space since the Taliban returned to power last August. This measure has been justified by the fact that women who are neither too young nor too old should veil their faces when facing a man, because otherwise it would be provocation, it would not respect traditions, it would be disrespectful. If they do not have important "tasks" to do outside, it would be "better for them to stay at home". This umpteenth measure brought against women by the Taliban clearly shows that it was illusory to believe, even for a moment, that they would be more flexible towards women than when they first took power. This has been expressed by some of my colleagues whom I am not going to quote. It is because we did not believe in the good will of the Taliban for a moment that our Parliament voted a resolution calling on your Government, in particular, to pay particular attention to the promotion and protection of the rights and freedoms of women and girls in Afghanistan, but also to make respect for the rights of women and children an essential condition for our level of engagement with the Taliban. As soon as Tuesday, the Taliban regime dissolved the Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission, a body that monitored, inter alia, violence against the population and thus also against women, finding it "no longer considered necessary". Mr Secretary of State, what is the Government's follow-up today to the resolution on the rights of Afghan women adopted by our Parliament last December? Has Belgium positioned itself in the face of this imposition of burqa? How are these restrictions on the rights and freedoms of Afghan women taken into account in bilateral relations with Afghanistan or at EU level? Finally, does our country intend to provide assistance to Afghan women, for example by assisting local NGOs fighting for women's rights or by calling on the United Nations Human Rights Council to adopt a resolution to send a fact-finding mission to Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u83	Mrs Rohonyi, as you know, the imposition of burqa is not the only measure recently imposed by the Taliban. There is also a ban on girls attending secondary schools, a ban on women flying without mahram (chaperon), segregation of women and men in parks, restrictions on their access to medical care, etc. The human rights of women and girls are a priority of Belgian foreign policy. This is also the case in our relations with Afghanistan. Belgium does not hesitate to denounce, in the relevant international forums, the increasingly unbalanced situation of women and girls in the country. Although Belgium is not a member of the Human Rights Council, our country participated actively in the negotiations at the 48th Council session in order to reach a strong resolution on the situation of human rights in Afghanistan, which created a mandate for a special rapporteur to monitor developments in the human rights situation in Afghanistan. At the last sessions of the Human Rights Council in March 2022, Belgium joined a joint statement on the human rights of women and girls in Afghanistan. Our country also intervened in a national capacity to strongly condemn the human rights violations committed by the de facto authorities in Afghanistan. In response to the Taliban's decision on 9 May to impose the port of burqa, the SPF Affaires étrangère reacted quickly and very strongly, stressing that Belgium deplores this decision, which is in addition to the Taliban's reversal of the reopening of secondary schools for girls, thus denying them access to education. The message also denounced the increasing restrictions on Afghan women's freedom of movement and women's access to medical care. The obligation to wear burqa again contradicts the Taliban's initial commitment to respect human rights in Afghanistan, including the human rights of women and girls. We have therefore called on the Taliban authorities to reconsider this decision, reminding them that they will be judged on their actions and not on their words. Respect for the human rights of women and girls is one of the European Union's top priorities and is one of the five criteria adopted at the Foreign Affairs Council in September 2021. As part of its peacebuilding budget, the FPS Foreign Affairs is currently funding a project to operate a centre for the protection of women human rights defenders in Afghanistan. This project is being implemented by the Afghan NGO Safety and Risk Mitigation Organization, whose activities are highly appreciated.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u84	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I hear that women's rights are a priority of your government, in Afghanistan or elsewhere, and I thank you for that. However, I was not able to help when you described the current situation of women as unbalanced. For me, the situation of women in Afghanistan is just catastrophic. One cannot imagine worse situation, from the moment women are no longer free to do anything. I am pleased with the measures that have been taken: the Special Rapporteur on human rights in Afghanistan, the strong response of the FPS Foreign Affairs to burqa and the restrictions on women's freedom of movement, which also hinder their right to health, as you rightly pointed out. The financing of education programmes is also an essential measure, because what Afghan women want and what they asked us to do at the hearings in the context of the motion for a resolution is that we do not abandon them. We must therefore demonstrate this to them in practice. For the rest, I had added a question about the Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission, because that decision was taken yesterday. I am concerned about this and will ask you again about it very soon. It is extremely worrying that Afghans will no longer have an agency to look for help or seek justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic790x.u85	If I may say so, the term I used was "desperated", not "unbalanced". The difference is significant.
