ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic768x.u1	Questions Nos. 55025425C, 55025426C, 55025438C, 55025439C and 55025549C of Ms. Dierick are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic768x.u2	For non-prepackaged foods, European Regulation 1169/2011 requires only the mention of information on allergens. The details of this obligation are set out in the Royal Decree of 17 July 2014 laying down the provisions for the declaration of certain substances or products causing allergies or intolerances in unpackaged foodstuffs. This Royal Decree applies to all unpackaged foodstuffs which are offered to the consumer regardless of the type of point of sale. It is therefore obvious that artisanal bakers and supermarkets are also required by law to be able to provide the consumer with information on allergens for this type of food. However, this information on allergens should not necessarily be provided in writing. The legislation also provides for the possibility of providing information on allergens orally. In the case of written transmission, the information shall be clearly legible on a physical or electronic medium at the place where the food is offered for sale. In the case of oral transmission, allergen data must be correct, free and available without delay when consumers wish to make their purchases so that they can make informed choices. It should also be explained in writing to the consumer that he can obtain information orally from the staff. Since 2014, the AFSCA has been monitoring these provisions during inspections, using checks-lists made available to the public. Various initiatives have been undertaken by the AFSCA to raise awareness among operators and improve their communication on allergens to consumers. In particular, the AFSCA extension unit provides training on hygiene to operators in the distribution sector. During these trainings, the subject of allergens, including risks, precautions, management and transfer of information to consumers, is discussed. The AFSCA support cell also organises training on labelling for small producers, during which the theme of allergens is also addressed. In 2020, during the first containment in the context of the coronavirus crisis, the AFSCA also provided for the possibility for local control units of operators in the distribution sector to receive support for the development of their allergen policies. Numerous publications concerning consumer information about allergens are also available on the AFSCA website, such as circulars, FAQs, quick start cards and a small informative video. This is Mr Vicar the answer I can give to your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-02-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic768x.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, thank you for your answer. One in ten thousand people is sensitive, in the sense of allergenic, especially hormones. There are flours that contain hormones, which is never indicated. I have personally worked ten years in immunology and, in particular, in the immunology of allergy. Finally, the dose doesn't matter. Whether you give 1 mg of allergen to a mouse or a horse, the "histamine cataclysm" within the immune system is the same. It is therefore clearly not a matter of dose. In my view, it is necessary to return to a more severe notation of hormones in flour. I know that these hormones are put in place to better lift the flours and help breadmaking, but it is still a real problem for a number of people who are not part of the ecological public who buy their flours in mills where the crops are organic and without additives. However, I believe that every Belgian citizen is entitled to our protection. In any case, I thank you, Minister, for your answer.
