ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic766x.u1	Madam President, Madam Minister, first of all I would like to thank you for the speedy handling of my speech so that I do not have to wait until next week. This is an important dossier. Madam Minister, when the internal frontiers of the European Community were abolished in 1993, customs officers were included in the establishment plan of the motor brigades. Level 2 and 2+ staff were included in those motorcycle brigades, but did not receive the same advantageous tantième in the pension calculation as their colleagues included in level 3. The Constitutional Court gave its opinion on the situation on 31 January 2019 and considered the Conditions of Employment for Level 2 and 2+ staff to be unconstitutional. I do not want to go into all the reasons for the Constitutional Court in detail here, but they are consistent enough to adapt the existing regime. The principle of equality and non-discrimination is violated because the level 2 and 2+ stakeholders carry out the same work as Level 3 staff, which are the same working conditions, active duty, night and weekend work and so on. The Court of Auditors had already established in its 157th Book the need to introduce a legal adjustment of the degrees and thus of the tantième and thus to amend the Law of 21 July 1844. Many times, even up to the Council of Ministers, it has been confirmed that the distinction is not justified. To date, however, the adjustments have not been made or are being transferred to the Pension Service, despite the numerous promises to do something about it, among other things, by the administrator-general of Customs and Excise and the then head of the Personnel and Organisation of the FPS Finance Department during their road shows to recruit volunteers for shiftwork. In 2013, there was even a bill from then Minister of Pensions, Alexander De Croo, which was not put to the vote. Madam Minister, at the Council of Ministers of 21 May 2021, you submitted a preliminary draft law amending the annex to the general law of 21 July 1844 on civil and ecclesiastical pensions. Your preliminary draft was approved by the Council of Ministers, but it was still before the Council of State for its opinion. To our question to the Council of State to see the preliminary draft, it was answered that the relevant regulatory text does not yet meet the conditions to be understood by us. Since May 2021, therefore, the file has ceased to exist again. Madam Minister, after it was approved by the Council of Ministers, why was the draft not forwarded to our committee for discussion so far? When will you submit your draft law for discussion in our committee? We are looking forward to hearing the comments of the Council of State. When do you intend to land the bill? Will you allow the provisions to enter into force retroactively, given that the scheme should have been amended as early as 1993? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic766x.u2	Mrs Samyn, on 21 May 2021, on my proposal, the Council of Ministers approved the preliminary draft law on the calculation of the old-age pensions of customs officials assigned to the staff of motorised brigades as a result of the abolition of customs controls at the internal borders of the European Community. The draft indeed responds to the judgment of the Constitutional Court which found discrimination between, on the one hand, grade 2 and grade 2+ staff who were integrated into the engine brigade establishment plan and, on the other hand, the original engine brigade staff with level 3. The latter shall be deemed to provide active service and shall be subject to tantième 1/50th, while level 2 and level 2+ staff shall be covered by tantième 1/60th. However, they perform identical performance and have identical duties. The draft law includes in the annex to the Law of 21 July 1844 all the degrees concerned, in so far as the persons covered by those degrees were included in the motor brigades on 1 January 1993 and provide active services. The Council of State noted that the draft did reply to the judgment of the Constitutional Court, but that there should be a justification for the difference in treatment between level 2 and level 2+ staff who started in that post before or after 1993. The A Committee also made that comment. That is why I asked the administration to prepare this amendment by means of a new draft law. The modified version extends the advantage of the preferential rate to all level 2 and 2+ customs officers integrated into a motorised brigade, including those who were not integrated until after 1 January 1993. Enlargement will ensure that all newly cited customs officers of the same rank and administrative level who carry out the same tasks and tasks under the same conditions will be treated equally. The file has been submitted to the members of the majority, but the agreement of the Secretary of State for the Budget remains out so far. As I can no longer wait, the draft adopted by the Council of Ministers on 21 May 2021 was submitted to Parliament. The discussion will therefore continue here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic766x.u3	Madam Minister, it is extremely good that the Constitutional Court's judgments are finally being followed up. Moreover, that is a government decision of last year. It is regrettable that the customs officers concerned have had to wait so long for this correction, but I am sure they are pleased that the necessary steps will eventually be taken. Let us not forget the importance of the Customs and Excise Service. Almost every week we hear in hooray reports that Customs and Excise have again intercepted a large shipment of drugs. Those people literally risk their lives every day. They face criminal gangs and serious crime, and they also fight with unequal weapons against those international crime gangs. It is not only your responsibility that the service should be treated stepmotherly all too often. They carry out a necessary task in the country to protect our trade and thus generate a lot of revenue for the Treasury. It is therefore only logical and just that this injustice should be rectified. We will certainly follow the dossier closely and I will not fail to remind you of this, because the agreement is almost one year old and it is time to correct this injustice and to introduce a more favourable tantième for the calculation of the pensions of the customs staff of levels 2 and 2+.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic766x.u4	Do other colleagues want to speak out? There is this possibility, but I do not see any request. Ms. Samyn's motion was also well received by the Secretariat and Ms. Thémont's motion was pure and simple.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic766x.u5	Madam President, the text is quite long and I allow you to refer to the text tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic766x.u6	In this case I refer to the text that will be attached to the record.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic766x.u7	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Ellen Samyn and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Ellen Samyn and the reply of the Minister for Pensions and Social Integration, responsible for Persons with Disabilities, Combating Poverty and Beliris, - having regard to the fact that level 2 and 2+ customs staff included in these engine brigades do not receive the same advantageous tantième in the pension calculation as their fellow crew members included in level 3; - having regard to the fact that the Constitutional Court ruled on 31 January 2019 and considered this arrangement to be unconstitutional for level 2 and 2+ staff; - having regard to the fact that such discrimination has been indicted for years by conflicts of interest; - having regard to the fact that the principle of equality and non-discrimination is infringed because level 2 and 2+ stakeholders carry out the same work as level 3; - having regard to the fact that, in its 157th book, the Court of Auditors has already established the need for a legal adjustment of the degrees and thus the tantième; - having regard to the fact that this problem has been discussed on a number of occasions in the Council of Ministers over the past few legislatures; - whereas this adjustment was promised numerous times, even by the Administrator-General of Customs and Excise and the then Head of the Personnel & Organisation of the FPS Finance Department during their road shows to find volunteers for shiftwork; - considering that a preliminary draft was already submitted to the Council of Ministers of 21 May 2021 and approved by the Council of Ministers. calls on the Government - correct this injustice and implement a more favourable tantième for the calculation of the pension for the customs staff of levels 2 and 2+. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Ellen Samyn and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms Ellen Samyn and the reply of the Minister for Pensions and Social Integration, responsible for persons with disabilities, the fight against poverty and Beliris, - in view of the fact that customs officers of levels 2 and 2+ integrated into motorized brigades do not benefit from the same favourable period in the calculation of their pension as their colleagues of level 3; - in view of the fact that the Constitutional Court expressed itself on 31 January 2019 and found the system in place for level 2 and level 2+ agents unconstitutional; - in view of the fact that interest associations have been denouncing this discrimination for several years; - in view of the fact that the principle of equality and non-discrimination is not respected, since those at levels 2 and 2+ carry out the same work as those at level 3; - in view of the fact that the need to make a legal change to the grades and, consequently, to the tantieth was already included in the 157th Cahier d'observations of the Court of Auditors; Whereas this problem has even been discussed several times in the Council of Ministers in previous legislatures; - Whereas even the General Administrator of Customs and Excise and the head of the Personnel & Organisation department of the FPS Finances have promised this change, on numerous occasions, during their roadshows with a view to finding volunteers for shiftwork; Whereas a preliminary draft was already submitted on 21 May 2021 to the Council of Ministers, which approved it; asks the government - to redress this injustice and to apply a more favourable tantème for the calculation of the pension of customs officers at levels 2 and 2+." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sophie Thémont. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Sophie Thémont. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic766x.u8	We will be able to move on to the next item on the agenda.
