ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u1	Minister, we discussed the B2B law in committee with a payment period of 60 days. As an entrepreneur, I still have some questions about its application in my company. I also received many questions from other entrepreneurs. Does this law apply to future agreements from 1 February or does it apply to agreements concluded before 1 February? We consulted the case-law of the Court of Cassation of November in order to find a solution of our own. It would also apply to current contracts. Then there is a lot of work to be done. Is the legislation overruling the contract at this point? What about the agreements under foreign law? Do you plan exceptions to this rule? Will the administration provide assistance to SMEs for a smooth transition? Can you clarify these very pressing questions for all the entrepreneurs who are facing them?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u2	Since the legal text does not contain any specific regulation, this mandatory legislation applies immediately to current agreements. Before considering exceptions, I would like to wait and see the impact of this new legislation, but I am prepared to make adjustments. The law on late payment of commercial transactions came about as a result of the transposition of a European directive, so that there is comparable protection throughout the European Union. You also had a question about applicable law. This is regulated by the Rome I Regulation and by the principles in the other relevant international conventions. It is therefore necessary to refer to the rules of private international law. It is up to the State to decide on this. If questions of interpretation arise and a clarification of the legislation is needed, companies should certainly not hesitate to contact the FPS Economy and the FPS Justice Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I hear you want to wait and see the impact of the law before making any adjustments. Perhaps a transitional period is enough for that. We must not undermine this law either. It is very important for the FPS Economy to be able to get all the answers about the foreign aspects. Entrepreneurs' associations should be given advice there in order to be able to answer their members' questions. It is, of course, a pity that this gives rise to uncertainty. I hope that the current contracts will not all have to be changed tomorrow and that the law will overrule this piece so that everyone can run the regular contracts and comply with the new legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u4	Mr President, there will be only one question, because the first question was introduced two times, fifteen days ago. Minister, two weeks ago I was asking you about increases in insurance premiums indexed to construction prices. You did not answer my question about whether or not the ABEX index is still appropriate for determining the price of insurance premiums. You repeated what you had already said several months ago instead: "It would be unacceptable for the reform of the ceiling to lead to an increase in premiums." All right, but the premiums are already increasing today, while the ceiling is neither reformed nor removed. Minister, do you really think that there is a link between the ceiling and the evolution of the price of insurance premiums? If so, then why do premiums increase while the ceiling has not been revised or removed? If not, why maintain this cap that protects insurers' profits? Having not had the answer two weeks ago, I ask you the question. Do you think that the ABEX index is still appropriate for setting the price of insurance premiums?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u5	Member, thank you for your question. Indeed, insurance contracts may legally provide for an indexation clause for the premium and insured amounts, in particular on the basis of the ABEX index. As you know, this index tracks construction prices, such as material prices and labour costs. The indexation of prices via ABEX allows, after a disaster, for example a fire or a flood, the reconstruction of the property to be possible with the compensation of the insurer. Indexation means greater compensation and protects consumers. With regard to the reform of the natural disaster insurance ceiling, I have asked the National Bank of Belgium to study a reform of the intervention ceiling of each insurance undertaking in order to guide the choice of government in the context of the reform. The National Bank is already at work and is carrying out this study on the reform of the intervention ceiling. We are all aware of the need to raise this ceiling for insurance intervention and to make them more accountable. The study of the BNB will enable us to object to the impact of this reform and of this increase in the ceiling for intervention. I do not think that simply removing the ceiling for intervention is a good solution. That would, I think, blow up premiums or make certain risks insurable, as we see in other countries. Placing insurance premiums purely and simply is not currently permitted by the European framework. The work is therefore under way with various stakeholders and in particular with the National Bank of Belgium to guide the process and ensure that we have objective elements to enable us to decide as quickly as possible. I would also like to make it clear that the will is to move forward quickly, urgently. This is important both for insurance companies and especially for citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u6	Mr Minister, as I said, what bothers me is that ABEX is focusing on price increases. What is contradictory is that insurance is fixed on the age of buildings while ABEX evolves according to the price of materials. When insurers do their calculations, they rely on old age. There's a contradiction in the insurers and that's where I would have liked you to intervene. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u7	Debates of the European Parliament 55023876C by Mrs Depraetere is postponed because she attends another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u8	Mr Minister, the Office for Standardisation (NBN), the successor to the Belgian Institute for Standardisation (BIN), together with its sectoral operators, is the Belgian knowledge centre for all activities related to standardisation. As an institution of public utility, the NBN has a mission to play a societal role by helping businesses, consumers, governments and other stakeholders strive for better quality in a competitive and international context by providing services related to the development, publication, dissemination and use of standards. Many Belgian legislation, including legislation transposing European legislation, refers to NBN standards, which must be complied with. It is often a question of socially important standards. Think of areas such as the environment, information security, energy, health and food safety. To find out what these standards are, reference is made to the NBN e-shop. This means that the NBN's service is paying. Minister, that raises questions. Citizens and businesses are supposed to know and comply with the law, but sometimes the law refers to standards that have to be respected and if one wants to know what the content or meaning of those standards is and what has to be done to achieve the standards, one has to pay for them and apparently the information is behind a paywall. However, the operation of the Standards Office has been paid with tax money, through a dotation. Minister, how do you feel about the NBN's practice of always having to pay for consulting standards, even if those standards are required by law for companies and individuals? Do you have an insight into the annual turnover that the NBN achieves by selling standards? Is this practice in line with the social role that the NBN must play, as determined by law? Finally, do you intend to adjust a sleeve there? Why is that, or why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u9	Mrs Platteau, thank you for your question. It is logical that the purchase of standards should be paid for. Standards are subject to copyright. Its preparation involves costs which must be covered in one way or another. In addition, the Standards Office, the NBN, as a member of European and international standardisation bodies, should follow the rules established by those institutions for making standards available. However, anyone can consult standards at NBN free of charge. Standards are not, in principle, mandatory. If a government still decides to impose a standard, it is without the knowledge of the NBN. The annual turnover of the NBN for the sale of standards or for the provision of a solution to consult certain standards is around 60% of the operating costs. It's about 3,770,000 euros. The sale of standards at a relatively limited price makes it possible for the NBN to better fulfil its general tasks. For these reasons, the methodology for offering standards by the NBN cannot be fundamentally adapted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u10	I am of course aware that the standards are subject to copyright and that there is a cost to develop the standards. However, there are other matters that are subject to copyright. For example, a library also has a public function and will lend the material at a very low democratic price. The question is, in particular, how the price for the standards was calculated and whether the price is proportionate to the work to be done. Europe's rules on this must, of course, be followed. However, you also say that when a government requires a standard, that is without the knowledge of the NBN. If a standard becomes mandatory by law, is it in any way the intention that it should be available in a way that is easily accessible or possibly cost-free? 60% of operating costs must be taken out of the sale of standards. I'll take a closer look at the budget. It may be interesting to examine the operation of the NBN. I will follow up the dossier and examine where, if possible, the standards can be made more accessible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u11	Minister, maybe I'll do a little foresight, and a little science fiction. I know that you may have other more concrete tasks to carry out. Nevertheless, this fight is close to my heart and to the party that I represent, with you and with my colleagues Mrs Leoni and Mr Prévot in this committee. There are quite abnormal things that are happening in the banking sector where I would say that perversion has no limits. My question follows an article published in Le Monde in the course of December, the reading of which has left me astonished. There is mention of a project, in my opinion serious, of discrimination, one could even say of class segregation – we will reinvent the 19th century as we have known it – pursued by BNP Paribas in the commune of Aubervilliers in France. From this commune close to Paris, there would be a lot to say about urban dynamics. At present, the popular classes are alongside the middle and upper classes. And that's how it is, that's how a city has to live. However, it is also seen as a double movement, of precarisation on the one hand with a problem of high unemployment, of gentrification on the other with the arrival of higher categories of workers, which accentuates inequalities and also creates a feeling of total downgrading among some, which could explain part of the success of the far right in France. It is precisely in this commune that BNP decided to conduct a pilot project by distributing its clients – a form of apartheid – differently between the two agencies it currently owns, an apartheid according to the socio-professional profile of each. In this way, good clients according to BNP Paribas, i.e. private and professional customers, seeking advice on their investment or savings projects, would go to the first agency owned by BNP. They would get a first-class service there. This agency is located in a commercial and soothing environment. The worst customers, i.e. the so-called "less autonomous" customers, would be redirected to the second agency, so to the second class or even the third class. It is located in a more sensitive neighbourhood, facing problems of trafficking and violence. Finally, customers with very limited needs or with a risky profile are completely downgraded. They would be advised to open an account with a neo-bank distributed in the tobacco offices, a subsidiary of the banking group. Minister, what can we do to avoid such a situation at home? Would such a discrimination project be possible in Belgium or would it be contrary to existing legislation? If it was not contrary to existing legislation, would it not be useful to legislate in this area? I'm very curious to hear you say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u12	Like you, I was struck and even shocked by this article in the newspaper Le Monde published in December. Before you asked me this question, I had inquired whether this decision, taken by a well-known bank in Belgium, could constitute a precedent. However, I should like to make it clear that this situation has not, to my knowledge and fortunately, been presented in our national territory. This French project also seems to be contrary to a number of Belgian laws, including the Code of Economic Law and the General Act of 10 May 2007 to combat certain forms of discrimination. The Code of Economic Law prohibits discrimination when the consumer requests to open, access or hold a payment account. Thus, the consumer cannot be discriminated against on the grounds of his nationality or place of residence in order to access banking services linked to his payment account with his bank. This obligation of non-discrimination is the responsibility of the bank. It is therefore up to the State party to ensure that when it changes or adapts its conditions or services, it does not put in place a criterion or practice that could constitute discrimination. Article 7 of the Act of 10 May 2007 to combat certain forms of discrimination provides that any direct distinction based on one of the protected criteria constitutes direct discrimination. Wealth, language, birth and social origin are protected under the said Act. Thus, the draft as put forward by you at the moment would appear to be contrary to the aforementioned legal provisions and I am pleased that we have in our legal arsenal such provisions prohibiting segregationist practice as referred to in the reading of this article.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u13	Thank you for your interest in this problem, which I had no doubt about, knowing you for a number of years. On the other hand, fortunately, in Belgium we are in theory safe, since we have legislation based both on the Code of Economic Law, but also on a law of 2007 which prohibits any form of discrimination comparable to that of the BNP-Paribas pilot project in Aubervilliers, France. That being said, I think we need to be vigilant because, in many economic or financial sectors... As I said, perversion has no limits in human beings. He's still a lot less in the banking sector in my opinion. Gradually, in some societies, we are trying to pass on things that are completely contrary to the principles of equality and non-discrimination and that are contrary to the values that all democratic parties in this country have been defending for decades and decades now. I thank you for your response and your vigilance, but I do not think we should lower our sword or our shield.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u14	Mr President, Mrs Dierick, the draft law in the context of the fight against over-indebtedness is indeed being prepared within various working groups. One of the working groups is considering the regulation of the costs that can be charged for late payment and the introduction of rules on friendly recovery. A second working group is working on a framework for a friendly settlement as a real alternative to the judicial procedure of collective debt settlement. I hope to be able to submit the first part of the draft bill on payment and recovery to the Chamber by September. On the second aspect, the various stakeholders have been consulted. It is still too early to communicate on this second point. Before the summer, I will explain the concrete elements of the reform to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u15	Thank you in advance for the explanation, Mr Vice-Prime Minister. I can understand why it's not easy to complete this file. I am disappointed, however, that you are talking about September, when we are only at the beginning of February. That's a long time. Just now, it is becoming increasingly difficult for many consumers to pay invoices. Energy prices and invoices are rising and are causing many problems. So I had hoped that clear agreements would be reached more quickly on payment deadlines to be respected and on the costs that can be charged if a payment reminder falls on the bus. I am often addressed by consumers. Recently, a young couple of fresh parents reported that they had already received the hospital bill, barely at home from the delivery, to pay within 14 days. As new parents, they had overlooked the payment in all the crowds and received a reminder letter on the bus with 20 euro charges charged immediately. That's just one example. I hope that this will really be taken to heart. Hopefully it can be speeded up a little bit. September's over six months old. I hope that we will be able to get to work on this bill more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u16	Minister, I am asking you this question as mayor, because I can almost take poison that people are getting a little nervous about fireworks a few weeks before New Year's Eve. Especially animal owners have been worried about the loud bangs for days in advance. I am not completely blind to that, because I woke up on New Year's Day three years ago with an ostrich in my garden that had broken out a few miles away. Although a firework ban has been imposed in many surrounding cities and municipalities, in our police area, Hasselt, Zonhoven, Diepenbeek, Lummen, Herk-de-Stad and Halen still belong to our police code. That code stipulates that on New Year's Eve you can light fireworks between 11:00 and 1:00 a.m. Our chief of police is arguing for this, because in this way we can keep even more control over the time period in which fireworks are fired off. In the municipalities where there is a ban, there is also firework. The solution lies neither with the local authorities nor with Flanders. After all, the Flemish Minister of Animal Welfare had taken initiatives but was whistled back. From a legal point of view, only a general ban on fireworks can be introduced by law. That is, of course, the competence of the federal legislator. However, a federal law prohibiting private fireworks is not enough. The real problem is that a private individual can buy fireworks very easily. As long as that is not forbidden, one will continue to find loopholes and to light fireworks to his heart's content. This is also demonstrated by the Dutch, for example, who in that period crossed the border massively to buy rockets in our country, which they then set off in the Netherlands. I have already asked the Minister of the Interior about this. She expressed her willingness to open a debate in Parliament on a ban on fireworks. Is there a tendency for sales to private individuals to fall in recent years, because some municipalities and cities have a ban on fireworks? Are you considering restricting the sale of fireworks to private individuals? The initiative to do so falls entirely within your competence. Will you consult with the Minister for the Interior in order to come up with a supported proposal and to be able to take appropriate action?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u17	I cannot say with certainty whether there has been a downward trend in sales to private individuals in recent years. I do not have the official sales figures of fireworks dealers and can therefore neither confirm nor deny such a trend. What I can see is that this year's fireworks stocks are almost all sold out. The legislation on fireworks is regulated at European level. In order to ensure sufficiently high levels of protection, pyrotechnic articles shall be classified according to their hazard in terms of their application, purpose or sound level. Fireworks which present a high hazard are classified in category F4. This category is intended exclusively for professionals throughout Europe. Fireworks which cause very little danger and a negligible noise level are classified in category F1. This category should not be banned, restricted or hindered throughout Europe. For categories F2, i.e. low risk and low noise levels, and F3, with a moderate hazard and a noise level that is not harmful to human health, a Member State may restrict sales to the general public for reasons of public policy, health or safety. In Belgium, the possession, use and sale to the general public of category 3 fireworks are already prohibited. I intend to ban the sale of the most noisy types of fireworks, Bengali fire and smoke generators. This will further reduce the noise pollution of legal fireworks and the nuisance for animals. I will take these measures after consultation with the parties concerned and consult with the Minister for the Interior to come forward with a supported proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u18	I believe, Minister, that this is a very positive answer. I have learned a number of new categories here today. After all, I'm not really at home in that either. For me it is especially something that blows and gives a beautiful light spectacle, but also causes a lot of suffering, not only in animals but also in humans. After all, it is also dangerous. I am pleased to hear that you intend to ban the noisy species and go in consultation with Minister Verlinden. The only question that remains for me is what timing is attached to it. I'm gonna have to follow that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u19	Minister, in January, inflation has reached its highest level since 1983: 7.59 %, almost 2 % more than the previous month... And, unsurprisingly, it is energy that pulls up this inflation! High at more than 60%, it contributes nearly five percentage points to total inflation. But the increases are not limited to energy products, there are also bread and cereals, fuels, health care insurance, soft drinks, the purchase of vehicles, heating oil, waste water collection, dairy products, meat, non-sustainable household equipment and fire insurance. U.S. economist Isabella Weber recently wrote an article that has had some success in The Guardian newspaper. It was also relayed by journalist Romaric Godin on the Mediapart website. It reminds us of the existence of an effective tool to stabilize the economy and cope with inflation: price control. So I know that some people are going to cry out to sovietism or are going to take me out I don't know what invective... But this price control has already taken place! It was applied in the United States under Roosevelt, after the war, but also in Europe, and it was advocated by Keynesian economists to whom you generally refer as a socialist, minister. I therefore wanted to know your position on the question of price control as a response to inflation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u20	Colleagues, measured by the national consumer price index, total inflation in Belgium actually reached 7.6% in January this year. The increase in overall inflation is due, as you mentioned, to the sharp rise in energy prices, with an average inflation rate of 83.5% for this item. Inflation has also affected certain foodstuffs and certain industrial goods and services. In several sectors, demand is strong, while supply is under pressure, particularly as a result of the economic recovery following the coronavirus crisis. According to the European Central Bank, inflation would remain high in the near future, but would begin to decline further in 2022. The observed price increases are, as I said, caused by international price increases for raw materials or intermediate products and a distorted global logistics chain. In any event, the Price Observatory will monitor the evolution of consumer prices, monitor the evolution of margins in the different sectors and identify possible problems with the Belgian Competition Authority. As you know, since we discussed it during the examination of the Belgian Competition Authority bill, I wanted the Authority's resources to be strengthened in order to reduce future prices. The Belgian Competition Authority must really be able to intervene following the price observatory in order to ensure that prices are controlled and to be able to lower them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u21	I can only welcome the fact that you have announced that the Prize Observatory will be monitoring extra. I've asked before if this would happen. So I am glad to hear that this will happen now. More resources for the Belgian Competition Authority, which was decided last week, is also welcome. However, as you know, regardless of current inflation, we in Belgium pay more in our supermarkets than is the case in our neighbouring countries. That is why I had hoped that you would announce that we would finally tackle this in Belgium in a sustainable way, either through labour market reform or by finally doing something about high wage costs. These are things that make prices in our supermarkets higher than in our neighbouring countries. I did not hear you say anything about this, when I made an explicit reference to it in my question. You chose not to say anything about it. Unfortunately, I can only conclude from that that you do not intend to carry out thorough reforms in this respect, at the expense of our consumers, but certainly of our companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u22	Minister, I'm disappointed. We managed to block the wages, we could have blocked the prices! You are talking about competition, but you know that there are monopolies, as we can see in the energy sector. Instead of lowering prices, competition increases them. So I am doubly disappointed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u23	For several months now, Mrs Houtmeyers, I have been very concerned about the problems facing our timber industry. These are the result of a combination of factors, such as the protectionist measures recently taken by Russia. The European Union has initiated a dispute settlement procedure with the World Trade Organisation, the WTO, on Russia's restrictive measures for the export of wood. Belgium has given the Commission its full support for this. The use of possible export restrictions for wood by the EU is not compatible with WTO rules or with the rules of the internal market. Nevertheless, the European Commission is working intensively to strengthen the level playing field without falling into a protectionist stance. For example, there is the proposal to combat the distorting effects of foreign subsidies on the functioning of the internal market. My administration is also working with the Foreign Affairs Office and regional colleagues on how to tackle this problem. As regards the ecological impact of wood exploitation, the European Union has an ambitious strategy aimed at sustainable forest management. Another important element in the assessment of the ecological impact is transport. China imported mainly wood from New Zealand for the corona crisis. This resulted in significant emissions. It is therefore not certain that increased exports from Europe lead directly to an increased ecological impact. I do not want the wages of our employees to be reduced. On the contrary, the solution lies rather in a fair tax on these products in order to prevent dumping. The principle of allocating wood produced in our municipalities to local use is a debate that should be held at regional level. I support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u24	Minister, we see that China and Russia are reacting increasingly hostilely and that they are really causing a lot of logistical problems and certainly also the disruption of the logistics chain. Think of the expensive container prices and the lockdowns that have been there. We must ensure that we bring more to Europe, especially in the manufacturing industry. If Europe does not do this, we will have to see how our country can do better itself. You say you don't want to lower wages. They may not need to be reduced, but the labour market needs to be thoroughly reformed, as Mrs Van Bossuyt said. That will be the only solution to ensure that wages remain affordable and that we continue to compete better with China, Africa and Asia.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u25	Debates of the European Parliament 55024117C) by Mrs Rohonyi and No 55024117C) by Mrs Rohonyi and others, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Mr Verduyckt's 55024139C were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u26	Minister, many consumers have once experienced this frustration: having in one hand an electronic device, and in the other a charger, but both are incompatible and therefore it is impossible to recharge the device. I myself experience this frustration on a daily basis. Beyond the inconvenience, the European Commission gives up-to-date figures at global level. For example, scrapped or unused shippers account for up to 11,000 tonnes of electronic waste per year. In addition, consumers spend about 2.4 billion euros per year on independent chargers that are not sold with their electronic devices. Therefore, working on a universal charger would be a good measure for the portfolio and for the environment. The European Union has been working there for ten years, with mixed success. It is clear that companies like Apple are putting pressure on such a project, saying that it is likely to stifle innovation. But a decisive step seems to have been taken last September, with a proposal for a revision of the European Directive on electronic equipment. Following this proposal, the USB-C port would become the standard port for a range of electronic devices. In addition, the sale of shippers would be dissociated from the sale of electronic devices. According to my information, the proposed revision is currently being discussed in the EU Council and the European Parliament. Hence my questions: can you take stock of the legislative process? What is Belgium's position at Council level? And how do you personally commit yourself to this important issue, both for the environment and for the portfolio? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u27	Thank you, Member, for your question. Be aware that on several occasions I have been confronted with the same frustration of not having the right charger for the right device, while having a device and a charger in each hand. To answer your questions, first of all, you should know that an agreement on this matter was reached at the Council of the European Union between the Member States last week. This is an important first step, which means that the trialogue negotiations between the European Parliament, the European Commission and the Council of the Union will be able to begin as soon as the European Parliament has also adopted its own position. Belgium supported the proposal of the French Presidency of the Council of the Union, which made it possible to reach an agreement between the Member States. In general, our country has engaged constructively in this whole issue. Indeed, a positive outcome would really be for the benefit of the citizens. That is indeed my deep conviction. The universal charger will make it possible to stop a scam to consumers and an environmental waste. A consumer must be able to expect not to have to buy a shipper from each new purchase. This is an environmental scandal and with regard to the purchasing power of households! I therefore welcome the progress made last week at the level of the Council of the Union between the Member States and the steps that will follow in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u28	Minister, thank you for your positive answers. We see that timing is important, as you said, on an economic and ecological level. I will not fail to return to you for the advancement of the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u29	Question No 55024561C by Mr Bayet is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u30	Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u31	Mrs Dierick, there are a lot of rules already in place to indicate the origin or origin of food, and I would like to ignore the general principle that consumers should not be misled. In addition to this horizontal regulation, in accordance with European legislation, Regulation 1337/2013, the mandatory designation of unprocessed poultry meat such as chicken fillets applies. By implementing Regulation 2018/775, the European Union has already imposed an obligation to identify the origin of the main ingredients in a product where, firstly, the origin differs from the origin of the food itself and, secondly, if the origin of the food itself is declared voluntarily. The same rules apply in all EU Member States, each of which is responsible for controls on their territory. Imports of products of animal origin from third countries to the EU are subject to strict health measures, which are subject to control by the BFSA. The ecoscore is a private initiative. The manner of presentation and the elements associated with it are therefore the responsibility of the initiator. For the purpose of indicating origin or origin, Article 26 of the EU Regulation 1169/2011 already lays down a broad framework on the provision of information on food to consumers. The origin and origin of poultry meat are already checked under routine checks. In addition, checks on the water content of chicken meat are always carried out on the basis of a control of origin. Over the past two years, the number of infringements detected concerning the indication of origin or origin has been virtually nil. Finally, I follow closely the European Commission's farm-to-fork strategy for a fair, healthy and environmentally friendly food system. It provides for an extension of the rules on the indication of the origin or origin of foodstuffs. Indeed, in the context of a sustainable economy, the origin of products is important information to ensure market transparency and enable consumers to choose more local products. It shall examine whether the origin of the meat should be identified as an ingredient in a processed food.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u32	Minister, the Pano report has shown that not all Member States are equally close to food safety. That's odd and a little scary. It is also very strange that chickens from, for example, Poland that are processed in Belgium are labelled as a Belgian product, while the main ingredients do not come from our country. There can be some deception on the part of the consumer. I'm worried about that. It is also unfair to Belgian producers, who take the rules very closely to heart. We must be careful to make this clearer to the consumer and thus better protect our own producers. Of course, I support your call to buy as many local products as possible, because then we will have more guarantee of better quality and we will also support our own economy. I certainly hope that consideration will be given to the indication of origin on the labels, so that it is also very clear to the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u33	The prohibition on selling at a loss applies as soon as the goods are sold in Belgium, irrespective of the nationality of the offender. Eight inspections were carried out in 2020, three of which resulted in a warning. In 2021, six inspections were carried out which did not lead to the detection of infringements. Sale with loss is an important focus, but the Economic Inspectorate only occurs if there is a clear indication of sale with loss. The main reason why there are not often checks on sales at a loss is that the Economic Inspectorate receives few reports about this. Moreover, it is not easy to apply the current legislation, in particular Articles 116 and 117 of Book 6 of the Economic Law Code. The former rule which equated limited profit margin sales with loss sales was abolished in 2014. Since then, account has been taken of definitively acquired discounts for the determination of the purchase or resupply price. This makes the investigations extremely complex, inter alia because there is a need to take into account all kinds of discounts granted by suppliers to determine whether or not there is a sale with loss. The Economic Inspectorate has received 46 notifications in the last five years. Approximately 70% of the notifications gave rise to an audit. It is important to note that there is no one-to-one relationship between the reports and the monitoring studies. A notification may give rise to multiple control investigations and vice versa one control study may also be based on multiple reports.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u34	Thank you for your answer and for the figures. I can understand that there are few reports. Consumers will not soon be inclined to report that there is a loss in sales. After all, it's good for their wallet. However, it is very bad for competition between them. We often find it very difficult for small traders to compete with the large retail chains. We need to keep an eye on that. Thank you, at least, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u35	Thank you, Mr. Delizée, for your question. In order to prepare for the implementation in domestic law of the Fifth Anti-Money Laundering Directive, the Economic Inspectorate's Whitening Unit has now launched a wave of exploratory controls on the art market for three years. This service has been designated as the'supervisory authority' for this particular economic sector. Unfortunately, I find that some art dealers have criminally reprehensible practices, ranging from deceptive commercial practices to pure and simple scams, to the publication of false fraudulent documents. These findings resulted in the writing of minutes to the judicial authorities, which led to the opening of some 20 information and judicial inquiries against art market actors in Belgium. The King's prosecutor also assigns files to the Economic Inspectorate on his own initiative, guaranteeing the knowledge and recognized mastery of this service. Two inspectors are specifically assigned to these judicial investigations. In the face of the disappearance of the point of contact, the Economic Inspectorate is currently conducting discussions with the Federal Police in order to find a solution that would ensure the sustainability of the exchange of information, which is crucial for these investigations, whether at the intra-Belgian or international level. My administration is making every effort to combat fraud that tarnishes the art market and enriches criminal groups active in this sector. The work of the Economic Inspectorate as the supervisory authority for the art sector is a priority of my administration and myself. Solutions need to be found with all stakeholders to ensure the sustainability of this important work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u36	Thank you, Mr President, thank you, Mr Minister, for your answers, not only for those concerning your department but, better still, for your answer to a question which I asked your colleague, the Minister of the Interior, on 12 January, and for which I did not have an answer. In fact, in your answer, you pointed out the "disappearance of the point of contact". It is therefore necessary to mean "the point of contact within the Federal Police" which no longer exists since 1 January last. The unit specializing in combating the theft of works of art and trafficking in art and antiques is no longer operational. It's the empty office, the empty chair, the empty service. Unfortunately, therefore, there is no longer any coordination and monitoring of the database, which should update all the files at Belgian and international level, as you said. Unfortunately, our country is considered a hub in this traffic. Sometimes, too, it is described as a weak link within Europe. In any case, we are in difficulty to fulfil our international obligations, to the great dam of organisations such as Unesco, Interpol or Europol, not to mention our neighbouring countries. You mentioned the enrichment of criminal groups, quite rightly. The action of your administration is to combat money laundering. We must add the financing of terrorist organizations; because unfortunately, they have found in this trade valuable means of financing. In any case, congratulations to the FPS Economy; because indeed, the work is going on. As you said, there are criminal acts that follow instructions, judicial information, and we should continue to do so. What is more surprising is the reaction of the police hierarchy. Now I think that the debate is taking place in the media, in civil society, and also at the political level. I will retain that, minister, from your answer. I am pleased to hear that discussions are taking place between your department and the federal police to, you say, find a solution. I want to say that I am counting on you to raise your colleague's awareness. It is true that I am counting on you, Deputy Prime Minister, in many areas and on many issues, but this one in particular, to raise awareness of your colleague in charge of the interior. It would be minimal if the two retired police officers could be replaced this year, with administrative support for updating the database. This is really the minimum minimorum that our country can do; and it can do more and better with more means. In any case, I support you and encourage you in your dealings with your colleague and the police department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u37	Minister, on a global scale, natural resources are today extracted three times faster than in 1970. At the same time, the waste generated is constantly increasing. According to World Bank figures, production is expected to reach 3.4 billion tonnes per year by 2050. In anticipation of the French Presidency of the European Union and within the framework of the objectives laid down by the European Green Pact, the European think tank "Confrontations Europe" published in October last year a study in which it stressed, after others, the need for waste recovery to go beyond recycling to cover the entire life cycle and therefore also to include the limitation of resources useful for production, as well as the extension of their use. This work concludes with a series of 16 policy recommendations aimed at increasing the development of the circular economy at European level, which focus on three areas: the harmonisation of regulations and practices, the strengthening of public-private synergies and the implementation of fiscal and financial incentives. As far as the scope of your skills is concerned, I point to the incentive for companies to be "digitally responsible" throughout the product value chain, in terms of both regulatory, ethical, social and environmental aspects, as well as – and I move on to your job competence – valuing, in particular through campaigns to raise awareness of trades and training beneficial to the deployment of the circular economy. I believe, like the authors of this article, that the post-covid-19 will also represent an opportunity in this area. I would therefore like to ask you whether you have had an opportunity to learn about this contribution and the recommendations made. What are you responding to, in particular on the two points I have highlighted?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u38	Mr Ben Achour, thank you for your question. My administration and I have taken note of this contribution of the think tank "Confrontations Europe" in the field of circular economy. The recommendations contained therein have been taken into account in several initiatives in this area and in the area of sustainable development. I am thinking first of all of the Federal Action Plan for a Circular Economy 2021-2024, which was validated by the government in December last year. In this way, Belgium intends to accelerate the transition to a more sustainable economy, while creating quality, non-relocating jobs and strengthening consumer protection. As you know, it includes 6 objectives with 25 concrete measures. The Federal Sustainable Development Plan, also adopted by the government at the end of 2021, includes a chapter on economic transformation, including several measures that are conducive to sustainable economic models – including the circular economy. Finally, the Belgian Builds Back Circular project, adopted within the framework of the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience and with a federal budget of more than €25 million, will provide public funding to actors in the field for circular economy projects on the substitution of hazardous chemicals and eco-design. The measures provided for in these three plans will help to implement several recommendations of the think tank. The Federal Action Plan for a Circular Economy provides, for example, for a communication campaign to make Belgian consumers aware of sustainable consumption and the circular economy. Other initiatives will contribute to the digitally responsible positioning of companies throughout the product value chain in regulatory, ethical, societal and environmental terms. The Federal Sustainable Development Plan provides for the development of a coherent policy, with concrete objectives – in particular to make the logistics of e-commerce and the last kilometre in Belgium much more sustainable – in consultation with all stakeholders and the different levels of power. Here, honourable Member, briefly outlined some aspects of these three plans. We will certainly have the opportunity to go back in more detail on the various projects and recommendations they contain.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u39	Minister, briefly, but with conviction and ambition; it felt. I believe that this is a subject on which this ambition needs to be deepened, because I believe that there is real public support on this subject. I have before me a survey carried out at European level a short time ago. It showed that, in reality, a quarter of Europeans already know exactly what the circular economy is: 80% have a good image of it; 60% feel they are well informed about it; 85% associate it with a positive impact on the environment; two thirds of Europeans regularly practice recycling and half do so more than before. There is still a heavy trend, and I think even a demand, if we can talk about policy in terms of supply and demand. There is a demand from the population to step up our work on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic682x.u40	Debates of the European Parliament 5023796C) by Mrs Sneppe, No. 55024553C) by Mr Ducarme and Mr Delors, (Doc. 55024610C by Mrs Gilson.
