ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u1	Colleagues, in view of his agenda, the Prime Minister may be present at our meeting until about 3.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u2	Mr Verduyckt, Mr Van Lommel and Mr De Roover are not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u3	Mr Prime Minister, I would have liked to refer to the written version of my question so that the sitting can proceed smoothly. In the meantime, however, it has become somewhat outdated, because I submitted it on 5 May, exactly two months ago, after I put an oral question to Minister Dermagne. At that time I received very little feedback from Minister Dermagne about the expert group, he remained very vague and very close to the surface, and as a result I again put a question the following day, inter alia, to find out whether Parliament will be involved and have access to the opinions. In the meantime, the answer is known to me. No, Parliament will not be involved, we will have to get the information through the press first. Amazing isn't that, we're used to that now, although that doesn't make it any less serious. My question about timing has already been answered, namely today or yesterday. My question as to whether the expert group will stop now, or whether it will meet even further, is still open. Minister Dermagne had also announced that consultations would take place with the social partners. I note that the expert group is composed mainly of professors and high-ranking officials, but we do not see people from the field, although they are in touch with the decisions every day. Why weren't people from the field involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u4	Prime Minister, there have been many discussions in the government recently, including during barbecues for the government, where there is much talk, but is there also talk about the purchasing power of the population? On 20 June, 80,000 people came to the streets to ask for wage storage on top of indexation, to charge high prices and to push for energy price measures, including petrol prices. Last weekend, when I read Mr Lachart's statement in the newspaper, I was shocked that there would be no additional support measures for high energy prices, because of too expensive for the budget, and that winter would be hard. Do you confirm Mr Lachaert's statement in the press? Will you do nothing for people's purchasing power and at high energy prices? People expect more than what you've decided so far. The question is also for whom winter will be hard. Summer's gonna be tough, too. Many people have had to put away their holiday plans because of high energy prices. The energy and oil multinationals are making huge profits. Engi Electrabel made a profit of 3.4 billion euros last year and was able to record more than half a billion euros of extra profits in the first three months of this year thanks to the Belgian nuclear power plants. Total Energy made a profit of 14 billion euros last year and Shell gained 18 billion euros. Will you take additional initiatives to safeguard the purchasing power of our citizens? Will you finally look at the excess profits and decide to tax them?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u5	Prime Minister, I have a few brief supplementary questions. Following the interim report, the final report of the expert committee of Governor Wunsch has now also been produced. You will remember that, when presenting the preliminary report, we asked for it to be delivered to Parliament in order to be able to discuss it in committee. That didn't happen back then. We didn't get that text. Unless I am mistaken, we have not yet received the final version. Can that report, which nevertheless contains public information, also be delivered to Parliament? The analysis that has been circulating for some time, including in Parliament, is that the expert group was a useful political move from you to be able to park some questions from more left-wing coalition partners, so that the issue of purchasing power would only be dealt with after the summer. I can imagine that analysis could contain some truth. After the summer there will also be budgetary planning, a context par excellence for discussing major budgetary challenges. Is that analysis correct? Was it your intention to consider the additional purchasing power measures only after the summer? What do you want to achieve this year? In the meantime, it has also been suggested that it would be the intention to shift the debate on purchasing power to the debate on preparation for the winter when gas supplies are compromised. Is someone in your government feeding analyses that it should be less about purchasing power and more about other measures? Is it intended to change the current theme? What strikes me in all the debates on purchasing power is that there is never a question of how the government itself could be more economical and could do with less. Why don't we read some of the experts' proposals on this? Is this not a question asked to the experts on purchasing power or did they not dare to answer it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u6	Is the government taking any action? Two weeks ago, we took one of the most important decisions that can be taken: we extended energy measures until the end of the year. This decision, the reduction of invoices, costs more than EUR 1 billion, namely EUR 1.3 billion. So yes, the government has decided to extend measures. It concerns the reduction of VAT to 6% for both electricity and gas. We have also decided to extend the increase in masquerade cheques so that they cover the whole year. We have also extended the reduction in excise duties on fuels and the extended social tariff. So we are not delaying things at all, quite the contrary. The government has not waited for the crisis to take action, including the introduction of the extended social tariff, an initiative which, according to an analysis by the National Bank, is a very effective measure. So we had already taken measures before Russia invaded Ukraine. Now we have already decided, so before the beginning of the summer, that we will continue the measures until the end of the year. We have asked the experts to examine what additional measures could be useful. This has led to a very wide range of measures. Yesterday we received the final report. So we will now take the time to analyse this carefully and see what measures we could add to what we decided on two weeks ago. Mr Loones, I must refer your comment on the report to the expert group itself. We had asked them to prepare a report for the government. I would like to ask them whether they agree to share it with Parliament. I think you understand that I need to talk to them, but I have no fundamental problem with that. It is not just academics who are part of the expert group. You will notice some of the names of academics in this group of experts, because they often appear in the media. The expert group is therefore composed of people with a diverse background. Some are macro economists, others are labour market specialists and others specialize in the Internet and e-commerce. Since this is a final report, we no longer give the expert group any additional assignment. We thanked the governor yesterday for his coordinating role and the experts for their efforts. As regards the excess profits, the Minister of Energy explained in detail in committee on 28 June 2022 the investigation of the National Bank and the CREG. It is up to her and the Minister of Finance to submit proposals to the government. In addition to the problem of surplus profits, it also examines the transformation of VAT into excise duties for electricity and gas invoices. The expert report also stated that this reform could be very useful. I therefore believe that we can speak of a very useful exercise, which has enabled us to understand the measures that have been taken and which have proved to be useful. It has also helped us decide to extend measures until the end of the year. In addition, we can also take additional measures on the basis of the report. We only received the report yesterday, so you will understand that we will analyse the measures carefully for a few weeks, and then decide what measures we may adopt. Mrs Merckx, you said it wouldn't be an easy winter. It's not an easy summer either. You are absolutely right in that regard. If we look at the situation in the energy markets, we can see that not only prices are being discussed in some countries, but also concerns about security of supply. This is not the case in Belgium, given our adequate supply of gas thanks to our past investments. Belgium is a transit country for gas. Our imports are also very diversified and very little exposed to Russia. For a number of other large European economies, there is a danger of security of supply. Directly that has no impact on us, but indirectly that impact can of course be huge. If industrial activities in certain countries were to slow down because they received less gas, this would, of course, also have an impact on our economy. However, let it be clear that from the outset the government has taken the necessary measures to support the people most in trouble as much as possible. We have always been clear that we would extend the measures if prices remained high. We have already made a decision before the summer, so that people already know clearly that the reduction of VAT and excise duties and the extended social tariff will continue to apply in the coming winter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u7	Prime Minister, I have the impression that the Vivaldi government wants to control our lives completely with the additional measures. I should therefore believe that this is for my own good. That's a serious patron. You frown the eyebrows, but if the government advises people to use less energy and drive only 100 kilometers an hour, that really amounts to government control systems and a very high degree of patronisation. I'd like to be able to decide for myself. Mr Loones just said that the composition of the expert group could have been a useful political move. You say that the choice of experts is very diverse, but it is absolutely people who function from their desks and who are not really in the field. We also mentioned this two years ago in the Committee on Economic Affairs, when we pointed out to Minister Dermagne during the corona crisis that container prices were rising tremendously and that problems were coming. According to him, however, there was no problem. In his view, there was no problem with rising transport prices and the price increases and inflation in general were said to be limited. It's all turned out differently in the end. We would expect lessons learned and a great deal of involvement from more people in practice, but that has certainly not been the case. At first I was disappointed, but I hoped it would turn again. The report has now been announced with many bells and bells, but the content is questionable. It is logical that you should certainly mention the report as useful, but it has certainly been very time- and probably also very cost-intensive. I find that absolutely disappointing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u8	Minister, if I understand what you have said, there will be no new measure for purchasing power. You decided to extend what was going on. Didn't you say that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u9	I didn't say anything about that. You put words in my mouth. I didn't say that. I said that the current measures are being extended until the end of the year. You said we didn't intend to take any action. Extension is still a measure. I have not said anything about whether or not there will be more action.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u10	All right. In any case, I think you didn't say a word about the 80,000-strong demonstration that took place on the street on June 20th. These people were on the street when the measures on purchasing power were already decided; the situation of people is really untenable. They can't go shopping anymore, they can't go on vacation. I think you still don't realize that more action is needed. Today, the price at the pump remains far too high, for example. But in fact, neither do you dare to ask for anything from those who today benefit from the crisis. Because they're here, the Engie-Electrabels, and the oil multinationals, among other things. You are also slow to take steps to possibly fund other measures. In any case, if you do not take any further action, I think it has already been announced: people will be back on the street this fall to demand more. The 19th of September and 7th of November are already announced as days of action and strike.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u11	Although it is somewhat contrary to the Rules of Procedure, you will have the floor for a reply, Mr Loones.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u12	Mr President, I did not count on this, but I would like to take advantage of it. First of all, Prime Minister, you said it was a useful exercise that gives 'us' a lot of insight. The question is who this "us" is. In any case, this is already about the government, because you have received the report, and also about the press, because we have already read all the analyses of that report in the newspapers. It seems, however, that Parliament is not one of them. Last week, moreover, we were able to observe this in the light of the analysis that Mrs De Bleeker had only delivered to De Standaard and Le Soir. So even inside the press, apparently there are still groups. We would like to invite you to include us in your bubble and to be transparent about the documentation that is being prepared. Secondly, you said that the measures taken by the experts cover a very broad spectrum. I can only observe that in many domains and with many experts, the basic reflex has disappeared to see first whether we can be more economical within the government itself, or whether we cannot save on ourselves before we impose additional burdens. By the way, I also addressed Governor Wunsch. If we save a little on ourselves, we might also be able to do a little more for those who beg for additional purchasing power.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u13	Mr President, given the limited time available to the Prime Minister and the fact that I want to give everyone the opportunity to ask his question before the recess and to get an answer to it, I refer to the questions that have been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u14	Mr President, I am following Mr Metsu's example and refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u15	Mr Prime Minister, my question was tabled about 50 days ago and perhaps people think that the subject is somewhat outdated, but nothing is less true. When we see that many diplomats and intelligence services in Europe and Belgium are active in the field of espionage and interference, we all frown. When one further sees that diplomats are convicted of terrorism, when one sees what happens to Assadollah Assadi, then it frowns even more. The National Security Strategy focuses on the subject of diplomats and foreign intelligence services operating in Belgium. After all, Belgium is an attraction pool, with the European Union and NATO headquarters. A small pass in the National Security Strategy speaks about the hostile operating environment. We must make our diplomatic corps, our staff and our political representatives aware of the dangers of espionage and interference by all kinds of regimes. What actions will result from this National Security Strategy? If we know that at the end of March 21 Russian diplomats were expelled on suspicion of espionage, then a serious and well-thought-out policy is only appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed the National Security Strategy in detail here a number of times. Perhaps we should make a firm appointment in this committee, for example every year in March, to have a discussion about this National Security Strategy, where we stand and what the security evolution is. Then we can concentrate on these points. After all, a strategy is not something that has been chiseled in stone for ten years. Maybe that's a good way of doing things, to put all the questions together. Questions were asked about the relationship between the national and international levels. We discussed this extensively in March. The plan itself provides a clear explanation of this, in particular of the strong connection between our internal and our external security. Security policy requires that we have both decisive measures in Belgium to make our country more resilient, as well as abroad, to ensure that the rules-based international order can be respected. I am convinced that this can only be done in partnership. On the one hand, we must do this at EU level. That is why our strategy is very closely in line with multilateral security strategies such as the EU Global Strategy and the NATO Strategic Concept. As a host country of the EU and NATO, we also have a special responsibility. The plan also makes it very clear how we will deal with the punishment of crimes against international law. Cooperation between states but also between states and international criminal courts and other investigation mechanisms are necessary to achieve this objective. Belgium attaches great importance to this. It is one of the major priorities in our foreign policy. At internal level, the intrinsic seriousness of these crimes, which undermine public order not only in Belgium but also internationally, requires a priority approach to investigations into serious violations of international humanitarian law, in particular those relating to genocide and crimes against humanity and serious war crimes. A concrete example of this is the Belgian financial contribution to the International Criminal Court through a voluntary contribution to the trust fund to deal with the higher workload, for example in relation to Ukraine. Belgium and more than 40 other countries party to the Rome Statute have also referred the situation in Ukraine to the International Criminal Court. We also make forensic experts available to the Criminal Court. We also discussed the feasibility of the strategy in March. It is not a plan that has been worked out in detail, but rather a global strategy. It is intended that the various departments involved in the international security strategy will define these specific key performance indicators. Within the Chancellery, a two-person cell will be created for its operational follow-up. It will be the responsibility of each minister to then translate into his or her policy. One of the key elements of the National Security Strategy is that security and resilience are not only limited to the classic security departments. We must be able to move towards a broader safety culture, in which economic elements can also play a very important role. As regards the security strategy or culture, adjustments have been made to the composition of the Coordination Committee on Intelligence and Security. A new cybersecurity strategy has also been developed and the Centre for Cyber Security has been revalued. There is also an agreement in principle on the reform of the National Security Authority. So we are implementing a number of reforms to bring sufficiently strong structures into the security strategy, so that they can also be put into practice. There are also additional resources to this. I also understand, of course, the desires of the judiciary and the police. If we are to provide a solution to this problem, we must provide a structural solution that also works in terms of efficiency. It must therefore ensure that we can have greater effectiveness and efficiency in relation to the investments we make. A correct revaluation of the federal judicial police is one of the elements at issue. The last few weeks have been announcements about this. We must ensure that we can tackle radicalisation, terrorism and organised drug trafficking properly. Decisions have been taken that should make the federal judicial police stronger. Mr Buysrogge, your question about the hostile operating environment is more about what methods our intelligence services use. It is difficult to deal with this in a public hearing. The ambition is, of course, to raise awareness and strengthen our own services. As far as attribution is concerned, I have said a few times in the past that there are effective procedures for this, but it is not always possible to make an attribution final. It is not because there is a procedure that one also succeeds in doing an attribution. Mrs Goethals, we have indeed included in the strategy that there would be a legal framework for greater cooperation between the security services and the business world. This also fits in with the general philosophy that investment in our security, for example the investments we will be making in defence, must be able to achieve a much greater economic return. Especially in the field of cybersecurity, this is the case and a very close cooperation with the private sector is crucial. During the discussion in March, I also pointed out the ethical issues that could arise. Technology can, of course, help us to organise safety better, but technology is sometimes also used by authoritarian regimes, in a very efficient way and often under the guise of security. If new technology is used, such as facial recognition technology, we must also ensure that there are no secondary effects that, under the guise of freedom, would ultimately represent a major step backwards from our basic human rights. In my view, such systems can only be used if sufficient transparency can be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u17	Prime Minister, I think that your proposal to review and follow up the National Security Strategy on an annual basis is a good proposal, which we certainly can and would like to support. However, I think I can say that the rest of your answers were rather thin. I thought they were very vague, too. You replied that we're going to do business for the FGP, that we're going to use technology and so on. Less than two weeks ago, a destructive hearing with representatives of the FGP took place. The words used there were aberrant, it was incredible. I have rarely heard such crisp statements from pioneers or very important people in our safety environment. Mr President, in our Committee on the Interior, we are used to the fact that there is never a real answer to the questions asked, that the answers are rather vague and hollow. That seems to me to be a point of attention. In order to buy time, we are referring here to our questions, but unfortunately I have not learned much from the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u18	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. Unfortunately, I have to agree with my colleague when he says that your answers remain very vague. You are not alone in this, because we are very often receiving similar answers from the Minister for the Interior. On 1 December, the National Security Council met and you received a letter at the time, but I am very sorry that there was no response at the time. We had to hear representatives of the FGP here before any real action was taken. Months have been lost. Your government could have used that time. So I'm still a little hungry. I find it sad that everyone involved has not responded before.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u19	Mr Metsu, the strategy to refer to the question submitted, in the hope of obtaining a full answer, is not working. I can tell you that the question here does not work either in the hope of a complete answer. Prime Minister, you seem to be using the motto of listening to my words, not looking at my actions. The National Security Strategy includes the hostile operating environment as an action point. You have the mouths of a safety culture. You also said that you cannot really go into detail here about what that means. I will therefore have to ask a follow-up question through the Committee I and the Guidance Committee, in the hope of obtaining confidential information there. However, I can imagine that it is not really inspiring for the intelligence services to say on the one hand that you are working on topics such as espionage by diplomats while, on the other hand, you are opening the door and making deals with Iran about convicted terrorists. That doesn't really motivate our intelligence services.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u20	Prime Minister, for years our communes have been struggling to keep their heads out of the water. Over the course of successive reforms, the federal government has indeed discharged itself from a whole series of policies, to the detriment of local authorities, who now have to shoulder the burden humanly and financially. This year alone, the Wallonia Union of Cities and Municipalities reports that Walloon municipalities will be impacted at the level of 295 million euros, and up to 337 million by 2024. These are huge sums that they can no longer resolutely face today. And we must not be deceived, the main victim of this disinvestment, is the citizen, who will no longer be able to rely on quality local public services, for lack of sufficient funding. This is why the Walloon government seized the Codeco in early May: To put the question of communal finances on the table and reach a more balanced agreement that will finally give a breath of air to our local authorities.Accordingly, Prime Minister: • Do you recognise that the financial burden that the federal government places on the municipalities is becoming more and more important? Could you tell me what amounts are redistributed by the federal government every year to the local authorities? •With the accumulation of financial impacts on municipal budgets, the Walloon Region has launched an emergency plan to enable the municipalities to raise €3 billion. Is an appropriate emergency plan possible at the federal level? •When is the Codeco on the issue of communal finance planned? Will provincial officials be involved in this work? Is the government prepared to support, as proposed by the Walloon government, the setting up of a working group to carry out an inventory of the main transfer expenditure which is responsible for the budgetary imbalances of the Walloon municipalities, which are, in whole or in part, the responsibility of federal arrangements and financing? •The Walloon government is calling for a culture of budgetary neutrality, or at least budgetary consultation. Could your government commit to at least one of these two goals? Thank you in advance for your answers."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u21	I am well aware of the financial situation of a number of public authorities, which is indeed precarious. I do not assume an exact calculation of the transfer of federal power to the communes because these involve various financial flows. Some are of course known, such as endowments to police areas for which you can get numbers. Subordinated powers are primarily the responsibility of the Regions, which must ensure that the municipalities can carry out their basic tasks. The municipalities are, it is true, also responsible for a number of federal missions for which they in most cases receive remuneration. We are quite prepared to discuss with the municipalities whether this funding is adequate, but these discussions can go beyond the mere provision of additional resources. We also need to look at how to do the existing tasks more effectively in the appropriate structures. The federal government is not left with its arms crossed. Funding and recruitment under the Government Agreement for Police and Justice are under way. Efficiency gains can also be achieved through economies of scale and specialization. The question of the number of police zones must, for example, be able to be asked. The Walloon government has indeed included the issue of a working group on the agenda of the June 1 meeting of the Concerted Committee. The proposal of a working group was discussed and questions were raised as to the exact scope of the working group. It was therefore decided to request the Walloon Government to formulate a proposal for possible missions, objectives and areas of competence for an inter-federal working group. We will discuss this in more detail at a forthcoming Consultation Committee. Everyone must be aware of their responsibilities. The Regions cannot escape their responsibilities by trying to collect additional revenue for the municipalities through the federal government. In many areas, we consult directly with the municipalities on adequate funding. Conversely, it is probably not in the intention of the federal level to interfere in the distribution of the municipal funds or in the debate on the merger of communes in order to improve the financial capacity of the municipalities. Each level has its own responsibilities to the local authorities and it is preferable that this be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u22	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I welcome your opening with regard to the discussion with the municipalities. Indeed, the three regions of the country complain of increasing burdens coming from the federal government, without the corresponding means being engaged. This requires not only greater objectivation, but also greater responsibility by the first level concerned, namely the Regions, as well as by the federal government. Therefore, I am pleased to receive confirmation that a Consultation Committee on this issue will be held.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u23	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 55027706C and No. 55029339C by Mrs Kathleen Depoorter will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u24	Mr President, my question concerns an amount, so I shall put it briefly. A year ago, there was time for a first repatriation. I often draw the Prime Minister's attention to it, although I find it annoying that I have to keep doing it, that he was against repatriation in 2019 and that this government's vision is now different. The amount circulating is 1.7 million euros. A second repatriation of 6 IS terrorists and 16 children has now taken place. I understand that this has taken months to prepare. We've seen which planes were notified before they were repatriated. I ask the Prime Minister for the cost in globo, not just for the flights. I'd like to know what this operation cost the state.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u25	We have already had a debate on this in plenary on 19 May and 23 June. As I have said, I find it difficult to use the term IS gangsters in the same breath as children under the age of 12 who are the victims of a fatal decision by their parents and who are not to blame for it. These are children of Belgian nationality, and I do not think that we should condemn those children for life on the basis of the wrong choices made by their parents. Mrs Pas, you are asking very specific questions about the situation of individuals. For reasons of national security and privacy, I cannot go into that. I also think that the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber do not allow that either. However, the government has always communicated very transparently on the criteria it applies and has also immediately gone to Parliament on the mission that took place in 2021. Several ministers have also replied on the cost of consular missions. I have said several times in plenary that it is impossible to bring children back without a mother. The reason is that the Kurds, who manage the camps, have always opposed it. The Kurds have always said that they will not allow children to be separated from their mother. It is with this knowledge that we have made an analysis in the end. The main concern has always been national security. That is why we have listened to the OCAD, which makes the threat analysis. The OCAD was very clear. I repeat what I said in plenary: it is better for national security to bring children back in an organized way and to follow mothers in a very systematic way. Justice has ruled that certain mothers should no longer remain in prison. For others, that is the case. Just because they're not in prison anymore doesn't mean they're not being followed very closely. In a state of law, justice makes these choices, not politics. Mrs. Pas, you cited the professor in psychology Gerrit Loots of the VUB in your question. He has already visited the camps of Al Hol and Al Roj twice with a team and has spoken with those involved. I would point out that he stated in the newspapers that bringing children and mothers back in his eyes was the only right choice. He rejects the idea of ticking time bombs, as is sometimes promoted here. I quote Professor Loots: "The only thing they" the mothers so, "still want to, is to be a good mother to their children. They want to get out of prison as soon as possible, get a diploma or work. That's what they're doing, not IS." With regard to the cost, I can give you the information for the department under my jurisdiction, namely Foreign Affairs. That's 5,848,92 euros. These are the costs of staff involved for flights, overnight stays and daily allowances. Ministers of Defence, Justice and Home Affairs may incur the costs related to their department. I said in plenary that the Netherlands and Germany have taken similar initiatives. Today the information has come that France has also repatriated 35 children and has thereby reduced 16 mothers. The policy we follow is a policy that is fully based on the analysis of safety professionals. Those are people who spend all day doing nothing but working on our national security. The analysis they make is shared by the same professionals in Germany, the Netherlands and now in France.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u26	Thank you, Prime Minister, for the answer. It's the second time I've tried to figure out the total cost. Contrary to the answer to my question in plenary, I have now received a part of the answer, but we will be obliged to question the Ministers for Defence, Justice and Home Affairs in order to get the overall cost picture, because that is how we must do it. However, some elements of reply, Prime Minister. I did quote VUB Professor Loots. You say he rejects the idea of ticking time bombs. Those ticking time bombs are not my words, but those of German state security two years ago when it comes to recovering IS children. Professor Loots said on Radio 1 about the radicalisation in those camps in that context, in my question, I quoted him that even his own mothers are afraid of those children. That can count when it comes to national security. You are now saying that bringing the children back is impossible without the mothers. In March 2021 this government suddenly took a turn of 180 degrees and wanted to bring the mothers back. That was never supposed to happen before. You've even had successful trials to bring the children back alone without the mothers. When you changed your shoulder in March 2021, that was not the argument. You then hid behind the so-called analysis of the OCAD that it would be safer, in the context of national security, to bring them here because it would be better to follow them up. You repeat that argument again today. My fear is that after the mothers of IS terrorists you will also bring other IS terrorists here with the same arguments. I insist that, in the context of national security, it is a very bad idea to bring those IS terrorists here. Those conditions to which you refer, as it should no longer be a supporter of IS, bear witness to irresponsible naivety or far-reaching cynicism. Experience has shown that these IS gangsters do promise to break all ties with Islamic groups, but then all too often proof is provided that they are not rehabilitable. I therefore hope that the overall cost will not be as high as the previous edition, and I hope in particular that there will be no further editions of repatriation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u27	Prime Minister, you're telling us to get some puzzles going. I put my question to the Prime Minister, to the captain of the ship, not to a trade minister or a secretary of state. You have an Excel list and you know perfectly what the repatriation cost and yet you do not want to share it. You say that we should ask A, B and C, and that is how it is lifted over the recess, so that we no longer get answers. I find it terrible and particularly regrettable that you do not simply want to say openly and honestly how much this repatriation cost our country. I also regret that you always refer to the babies. There is something to be said about this, but you are acting exactly as if you were simply taking the mothers because they are no longer a danger. During the plenary session of two weeks ago, you literally said that it is good to see how they take their second chance. I find that unbelievable. Tomorrow we will have a hearing in the Chamber with the associations for victims of terrorism. Both V-Europe and Life For Brussels will be there. They both represent victims who have never had a second chance, who have not had a chance, and yet you keep saying the same thing. Perhaps the recess will bring some reflection to the government, but I hope you also know in your heart that this is a dangerous game.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u28	Mr President, Prime Minister, I tabled this question a long time ago to the attention of Minister Wilmès, who was still working at the time. The questions in my text are somewhat out of date, so I will update them. My first question remains the same. As a result of your visit to Berlin, you spoke with Chancellor Scholz. There was no doubt that the question of whether decisions should be taken at European level by qualified majority rather than by unanimity was discussed. What's your opinion on that? My second question concerns enlargement. In the meantime, we are already a few European summits ahead. In fact, I would have liked to follow up on a question I asked you earlier in the framework of the Federal Advisory Committee on European Affairs. In preparation for the latest summit, we talked about the European political community. I asked you to argue that the European political community should not become ambiguous, in other words that it should not include candidate countries as well as countries that explicitly choose never to join the European Union, and I am thinking, for that last group, of the United Kingdom, for example. You seemed to see something in there. Did you go into more detail about the European political community at the latest summit? What came out of that meeting? Did you raise that point of interest there too? A third element of my question concerns European energy independence and how it can best be promoted. Tomorrow, a vote will take place in the European Parliament on taxonomy, a very important framework, in which it will be decided whether or not nuclear energy is a green investment. That decision is very important for our energy independence, which you will undoubtedly confirm. Assuming that the vote in the European Parliament is negative, will Belgium then argue that nuclear energy should still be classified as a green investment?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u29	Mr President, I will try to stay perfectly within the speaking time. Mrs Van Bossuyt, the trip to Berlin has indeed been a long time ago. In the meantime, I have also seen Chancellor Scholz on a few other occasions. Firstly, our country is in favour of allowing qualified majority in a number of areas, such as foreign policy or taxation. I also defended that point in Berlin. With regard to enlargement, you know that the position of our country has always been that giving candidate status to a country is symbolic, but, on the other hand, goes beyond symbolism. We do understand that, at a time like today, when countries that believe in democracy and multilateralism look at Europe, it would be a false signal if we did not answer their questions. Giving that candidate status therefore has a high symbolic value, but it is of course not innocent either. It shows that Europe is moving in the direction of an organization which would be subject to profound change. Should Ukraine, Moldova and other countries eventually become part of the European Union, then one should not be an expert on European affairs, in order to know that Europe will become a different animal. In my view, therefore, a number of other matters need to be clarified. In my view, four things are tied together. Firstly, there is the status given to Ukraine and Moldova and there is the fact that a process has been set out for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Secondly, there is the physical and intangible reconstruction of Ukraine. I am very pleased that Ursula von der Leyen, for example, has put the emphasis on the elimination of corruption. This must be one of the priorities in Ukraine. Thirdly, the debate cannot be conducted without talking about the Western Balkans. Part of the European Summit was about Ukraine, but in the morning we saw the countries of the Western Balkans. It is logical that those countries, when invited to an event, on which European status will be given to Ukraine and Moldova, indicate that they have been in a process for a long time and wonder how to look at it. Fourthly, in my view, the decision-making mechanism is also attached to this. You have already asked the question. There was a separate discussion about the European political community during dinner. The conclusion was that the Czech Presidency would be asked to set it up. We would like to organise two meetings a year, a meeting taking place in a country which is part of the European Union and a second meeting taking place in a country which is not part of the European Union. The idea would be to invite very widely, from Norway over Britain to, for example, Ukraine, Moldova and so on. For me, a number of issues are crucial for the first meeting, such as security issues, energy and politics, perhaps with connection to the single market. It is good that we have not been stuck in the theoretical discussion, but that this is being organised. We'll see where we come up with that. Membership is indeed exclusive. Either a country is in the accession process, or the country is in that other case, but that reasoning has not been stopped so far. So far it has been defined more broadly, but I can also follow your reasoning. There are several ways to look at it. Belgium argues that any form of energy will be needed, and therefore nuclear energy. We will need a lot of renewable energy. We're gonna need a lot of nuclear power. We're gonna need some gas. In the coming winters, we will need every kind of energy to ensure security of supply and to be as dependent as possible on Russia's energy supply. Belgium has chosen to extend two nuclear reactors and has also chosen to invest in future nuclear technology, SMR technology.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u30	The meetings on specific issues of the European political community should include security and energy, but also the connection to the single market. We must pay attention to this, precisely because of the double status of the countries that are in it. On the one hand, there are the candidate countries currently, on the other hand, those that would never want to join. The single market is just the cornerstone of our European cooperation, linked to specific standards and so on, with all kinds of freedoms. It is remarkable that those who are not yet Member States and even those who never want to become Member States are linked to the single market. We need to be very careful and very careful about this before we completely undermine the whole concept of the single market with the four freedoms. As far as European energy independence is concerned, you say that Belgium supports any kind of energy we need. However, you did not answer my question, if the proposal on taxonomy is rejected, whether Belgium will still argue in favour of defining nuclear energy as a green investment. I would have liked to have heard from you whether Belgium will play a leading role in defining nuclear energy as a green investment at European level. I would have liked to have answered that question anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u31	Mrs Van Bossuyt, I did not look it up specifically, but I think the position of the Commission was that both nuclear and gas should be in it, and I think that is the right balance. Of course, we will reduce gas as much as possible, but as a transition technology, we need it to make renewable technology possible. If I look at the available technologies to be C02 neutral by 2050, then today I do not see many technologies other than nuclear to be an essential part of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u32	Is that enough, Mrs. Van Bossuyt?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u33	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u34	Debates of the European Parliament 55028163C by Mrs Van Hoof and Mr Roggeman.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u35	I do not need to explain to you that I am very interested in some of the provisions of the government agreement on institutional reform, at least its preparation. In this context, I myself have been a member of the parliamentary committee responsible for evaluating the state reforms since 1970, which has meanwhile completed its work. During the final meeting at the end of May there were some notable statements by the group chairman of the CD&V, still a government party. He invited the government to finally pursue the institutional reforms in the government agreement, for which there was no need for a two-thirds majority, and also to establish the necessary contacts with the opposition for reforms requiring a two-thirds majority. That sounded more like a cry of despair and suggests that no work has been done to date. This was also confirmed when I questioned the ministers responsible for institutional reform last week. In their view, in those two years, only one mission from the nuclear cabinet was sent to those two ministers, namely to establish contact with the various Deputy Prime Ministers. That consultation has not yet been completed. Nor do we know any timetable, and above all we do not know any concrete steps. What is the current state of affairs? What steps have already been taken and what contacts have been made with the opposition to reach a two-thirds majority? Will you, as Prime Minister and Guardian of the coalition agreement, take steps to get the train back on track?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u36	Prime Minister, for the group atmosphere in the government it is important not only to eat together, but also to give each other something. I think it's time to give CD&V something. The party has fought hard to achieve anything in the coalition agreement and it is not always easy to achieve anything. Mr Barbara Pas referred to the fact that Servais Verherstraeten made a number of statements on this matter in the Joint Committee of the Chamber and Senate. Minister Verlinden also did so: in the committee she made it clear to us that the work of the Joint Committee had to be completed by April at least, so that we could discuss institutional matters during the summer. But we don't hear about that anymore, either in the press or in the corridors. Mr. Prime Minister, isn't it time to give that to CD&V?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u37	It is amazing how a barbecue planned two months ago has become a dominant factor in certain major political analyses. It is a new aspect of political science to find symbols that are less symbolic than many think. Mrs Verlinden has already addressed some of your questions in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The government agreement sets out the method the government intends to use for institutional reforms in the run-up to 2024 and stresses the importance of proper preparation, evaluation of the past and the possibility of holding a wider participatory debate on the content of future reforms. To this end, several pathways were set up, such as a Joint Committee of Chambers of Commerce, which has recently approved a final report. At the request of the Consultative Committee, a number of inter-federal administrative working parties will be working, which will submit their report in the coming weeks. The online citizen survey, which was closed last month, now processes the results. In the Chamber there are the mixed panels of citizens and Members of Parliament, which deal with a number of issues. On the basis of these elements, the government determines the political orientation, with, of course, the coalition agreement as a guiding principle. That is what the talks in the government are about. I'm following that process in the nuclear cabinet. It is premature to talk about talks with the opposition at this stage. The coalition agreement states that, if the government agrees on texts requiring a special majority, the ministers of institutional reform must establish contacts in order to achieve the necessary majorities. Those contacts have not yet been discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u38	Prime Minister, you haven't told us anything new. We have not been allowed to hear from you any concrete step or any specific timing. However, Minister Verlinden said last week that the pace of government reform may be somewhat higher. She has said that she will certainly accept that commitment. She also said that it was up to you to watch over the implementation of the coalition agreement. You're hiding behind civilian interviews that were filled by 14,500 participants. If you rely on it to implement your own coalition agreement, which is clear on homogeneous packages of competence for, among other things, health care, then I fear that we will be surplaced for a long time to come. Your fellow ministers of institutional reform say that it is necessary to think now, not only about the proposals themselves, but also about where these majorities will be found. They do not want to wait until the last minute. You don't even give time for the consultation on the Deputy Ministers. We have a lot of deputy ministers in the government. I understand that this consultation could take a while, but I had hoped that you would have given us a time frame. I did not expect an invitation for a barbecue to negotiate two-thirds of the population, but a concrete timing and concrete steps by the government, but it is clear that the mood for a state reform lies with only one party of the seven parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u39	Mrs. Pas, I think I already know who would have ended up at the barbecue on the grill. Prime Minister, I am in favour of accountability at every level. It is good that we can now question you, but the primary responsibility is of course with the trade ministers, and with CD&V, to record that dossier. Of course, they dropped the first stitch. You replied that you follow the theme closely in the nuclear cabinet. In reality, however, this issue is not addressed in the nuclear cabinet, because your government agreement provides for institutional reform to be allocated to a Deputy Prime Minister. CD&V itself chose not to make use of that passage in the coalition agreement and to fill in the relevant responsibilities. I am in favour of accountability and also of politicians who deliver on their promises. In the coalition agreement, the agreements are in black and white. We assume that you will take up your role in this matter, that you will not only look at the passages of the coalition agreement which may seem a little more interesting to you, but will take into account the totality of the exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u40	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Francken's 55028220C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u41	Mr De Roover apologizes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u42	Mr Prime Minister, I refer to the written version of my question so that the sitting can be speeded up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u43	Mr President, it is not customary for me to comment on every proposal put forward in Parliament by one group or another. I am responsible for the government's work and not for some majority groups in Parliament, even when it comes to my own party. Of course, I have made statements about a federal constituency in the past. I am in favour of such a system. However, the coalition agreement does not contain any commitment to this, even though the article of the Constitution in question is subject to revision. However, the electoral system is a theme that has been addressed in the online citizen survey. It may also be part of reflection in the Chamber, as provided for in the coalition agreement. The government has also invited the Chamber to do so. I therefore assume that the proposal will be dealt with further in that context.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u44	Prime Minister, the PVDA is in favour of this. The article has indeed been declared subject to revision. The current electoral system ensures that the nationalist bid on both sides is always able to shave high peaks, because no Dutch-speaking Member of Parliament or minister has to answer to the other language group. That's gonna cause a lot of trouble. We believe that the introduction of a federal constituency could put an end to this in part.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u45	Prime Minister, we are all on the verge of reading analyses in the newspapers and wondering what we can expect in the next few weeks. Is there gonna be a big summer deal? It was announced that seven more yards would be built, all in one big deal. If we look at it from farther away, it's as if the construction holiday in the government has already begun. We don't see any chords coming. The atmosphere also does not seem entirely optimal between the coalition partners. Apparently even the colour of the clothing is important in order to be able to make chords and one has to come dressed in rainbow to create sympathy, but that is another debate. It is important for Parliament to know what and where. What can we expect? Is it really the intention to reach a further summer agreement? Are the seven yards still on the table? What exactly is the position with regard to the negotiations on nuclear power plants? Will the debate on the summer be lifted? Minister Van der Straeten said it was still on in July. What about pensions? Are there indeed only proposals on four sub-topics on the table? Is it a mini-retirement deal or is there something more to be expected? Where are we on the tax reform? During the study day, on which some experts discussed this, the Finance Minister indicated this morning that he would come to the government with a proposal before the recess. Will that be negotiated already? In short, what is the state of play in the yards? Or is it effective already construction holiday for the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u46	I can only observe that the heat has struck some political journalists, in the form of an exaggerated imagination. When I read some analyses, I wonder what people ate in the morning. There's never been any mention of a summer deal. There has been talk of a summer agenda. I have made it clear which dossiers I think should be dealt with in the summer ahead. My method has always been to look at files one by one and not go to a huge link, linking all kinds of files. The summer agenda is moving well. One point was getting the work deal to Parliament and that happened. Another point was to make our commitments in NATO clear and that decision was taken. Another point was the extension of energy measures. A number of items on the agenda have been finalised, and a number of others are in full swing, including the reform of pensions. These discussions are ongoing and the pace is very high there. Negotiations with Engie are also taking place at a very fast pace. The budget will be another point. The Monitoring Committee will produce figures on 14 July and we will take the first steps on that basis. It's my role to deport the government's agenda. Step by step, the items of the summer agenda, one by one, will be completed. We shall continue to do so in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u47	"The Tael is all the People," but I will not continue on that line. I remember the interview with your party chairman, Mr Lachaert, on Radio 1 a few weeks ago. He spoke very clearly at that time about the fact that you were working towards a major agreement. I thought that was a very interesting interview, because Mr Lachaert gradually changed his position and suddenly thought that it might not be wise to link everything together, then he said that everything would be saucissonated adding that it would be ensured that everything would be okay before the start of the summer. Once again, Prime Minister, the language is undoubtedly the whole people; I hope, above all, that you will do something. You refer to the fact that you have already realized a number of things. Your work deal is coming to Parliament. It would still be wrong. It will be the third or fourth time the labour deal has been decided. But that's not the question. The real question is: when are the real labour market reforms coming? That is what Mr Lachaert advocated here in plenary a few weeks ago. The labor deal is just a mini-deal. You are also proud of the fact that the NATO commitment is being recorded. But that's not the real question. The real question was asked by colleague Pillen van Open Vld. He did not want a vague agreement, but concrete, ideally legally anchored, commitments for the way in which it will be operated exactly. You refer to the extension of the energy aid measures. But, again, that's not the real question. The real question we are hearing here in Parliament is expressed, among other things, by Mr Leysen, also by Mr Open Vld, who stresses the need to establish agreements on the core exit. You are, of course, trying to sell small steps, on his Belgian side, as something big. But we're looking through that newspeak, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u48	Prime Minister, Belgian diplomatic and consular posts abroad are obliged to offer their services in the language of the country that our citizens prefer. So all three official national languages must be powerful. We already had a strong suspicion that there were violations of language legislation in the service sector and therefore took the test. Many diplomatic posts replied bilingually to a Dutch e-mail, but only in French to a French-language e-mail. It is striking that a whole series of Belgian diplomatic representations only replied in English, namely Bangladesh, Bermuda, Bhutan, Burkina Faso, Bolivia, Philippines, Georgia, Ghana, Ireland, Indonesia, Iraq, Israel, Côte d'Ivoire, Yemen, Jersey, Jerusalem, Jordan, Croatia, Liberia, Maldives, Malaysia, Marshall Islands, Micronesia, India, Nepal, Niger, Oman, Austria, Palestinian Territories, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka and Togo. Even more remarkable is the monolingual French response from our representations in Burkina Faso, Mali and Nigeria, the monolingual German response from the embassy in Berlin and the monolingual Spanish response from the posts in Paraguay and Uruguay. So our suspicions were unfortunately confirmed, Prime Minister, not all the employees of our embassies, consulates and honorary consulates can offer an answer in both French and Dutch or German. There is therefore still a great deal of work to be done on the monitoring and enforcement of language legislation. I asked you a written question about this not so long ago, because it is a violation of language law, a law of public order. You yourself said in your reply that there were problems in this area. That's why I'm happy to tell you about this. Will you take this issue to heart and contact the relevant embassies and consulates to draw their attention to language legislation? If so, what time frame will that take place? What policy will you implement to monitor and evaluate language legislation in our embassies, consulates and honorary consulates? At what frequency will these checks and evaluations be carried out and by which officials, researchers or bodies? What measures will you take to sanction repeated and conscious violations of language legislation in the future? Within what timeframe will you roll out that policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u49	Mrs Pas, you are a practitioner of practical tests, at least on this subject. In other areas, you are clearly not in favour of this, but here I have some admiration for the thoroughness with which you have been mopping the whole world looking for answers. It is an interesting precedent for other domains. All staff of an outside career, consular career or career central management designated at a diplomatic or consular professional post shall hold a language certificate. They are available to our countrymen in their own language to assist our countrymen in their own language, as is provided for in language legislation. However, there is no regulatory obligation to obtain this language certificate for posted contractual staff and locally contracted contractual staff. The Belgian representation in Bangladesh, Bermuda, Bhutan, Bolivia, Georgia, Ghana, Jersey, Liberia, the Maldives, Micronesia, Nepal, Oman, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, Togo, Uruguay and Paraguay, with which you were in contact, are not embassies or professional consulates, but honorary positions. Honorary consuls are appointed where there is no Belgian professional representation. They have no employment law relationship with the FPS Foreign Affairs and are therefore not paid by the FPS. Our Honorary Consuls are chosen primarily on the basis of the conditions set out in Article 2 of the Royal Decree of 21 September 2016, on the status of the Honorary Consul, such as a good knowledge of local conditions, a good network, a capacity to provide rapid consular assistance and the necessary means to ensure the functioning of the Honorary Consular Post. Our honorary consuls do not always have Belgian nationality, but often have the local nationality of the country where the honorary post is located. They do not belong to a particular language role and the laws governing the use of language in administrative matters do not as such apply to them, as is the case for statutory officials paid by the State. It is often difficult or impossible to find candidates who satisfy both the condition of Article 2 of the Royal Decree of 21 September 2016 on the statute of the Honorary Consul and who also have the knowledge of the national languages. However, it is to the extent possible that our honorary consuls or one of their associates have a certain knowledge of one or more of the country's languages. If this is not possible, a good knowledge of an international language, such as English or Spanish, shall be chosen. If a Belgian, who wishes to appeal to the Belgian representation, finds that an Honorary Consul has insufficient knowledge of the desired language of the country, he or she can always contact, for example, the professional representation of Belgium, where the applicant can be heard in his or her national language. The professional posts reply in principle in the language of the Belgian citizen. If it is impossible to identify the national language of a Belgian citizen, for example through registration in another language, the answer will be given in an international language. In addition, where a statutory employee is not immediately available, it may occur that a local staff member prepares a reply in another language, e.g. English or French, in order to assist the person concerned as soon as possible. If a Belgian national would still need additional help, the statutory staff will always be available.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u50	Mr Prime Minister, I would like to thank you for your detailed explanation of the honorary consuls and the appeal procedure that can be used for that purpose. However, you have not responded to the fact that language legislation is not applied either by the professional representation at the embassies or at the consular posts. As you pointed out in your reply to my written question, there is certainly a problem in that regard. They are covered by language legislation. So I thank you for one part of the answer, but I am still waiting for the other part of the answer. My questions were about concrete measures to ensure that language legislation was strictly followed or at least monitored. You don't answer those questions. It is like every time I question Minister Verlinden about the application of language legislation in Brussels public administrations, the police in Brussels and the post offices in Brussels. I always get the answer that the point is not in the coalition agreement and that the government will therefore do nothing about it. Prime Minister, I fear that your answer is somewhat the same and that you may need some encouragement. Mr President, I have therefore prepared a motion for a recommendation in which I recommend to the government that the Belgian embassies be informed of their obligations regarding language legislation and that checks and evaluations be carried out. My motion is not about the honorary consuls, but it is about the Belgian embassy. Mr President, I do not know whether to hand them over or whether you have already received them electronically. However, I am convinced, after hearing the faint answer, that the current government can use encouragement in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u51	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the Prime Minister's reply, with responsibility for Foreign Affairs and European Affairs, - having regard to the fact that Belgian diplomatic and consular posts abroad are obliged to provide their services in the language preferred by citizens; - having regard to the fact that research shows that far from providing a reply in both French and Dutch (or German) to all the employees of our embassies, consulates and honorary consulates; - having regard to the fact that some of our diplomatic and consular posts reply only in English to questions put by citizens in French or Dutch; - whereas language legislation is law of public policy; - whereas, in response to a written question itself, the Prime Minister indicated that there were difficulties in complying with language legislation in our diplomatic and consular posts; asks the government - to inform the Belgian embassies and consulates of their obligation to comply with language legislation; - to carry out regular checks and evaluations on compliance with language legislation by the Belgian embassies and consulates; - take action against those Belgian embassies and consulates who deliberately and repeatedly violate language legislation.' A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Prime Minister, responsible for Foreign Affairs and European Affairs, - since Belgian diplomatic and consular posts abroad are obliged to offer their services in the national language of preference of the citizen; - since an investigation shows that the staff of our honorary embassies, consulates and consulates are far from being able to provide an answer in both Dutch and French (or German); - since some of our diplomatic and consular posts answer questions from citizens in French or Dutch only in English; - Whereas language legislation is a law of public policy; - Whereas, in response to a written question, the Prime Minister has already acknowledged the existence of problems of respect for language legislation in our diplomatic and consular posts; asks the government - draw the attention of Belgian embassies and consulates to their obligation to comply with language legislation; - to organise regular checks and assessments on compliance with language legislation by Belgian embassies and consulates; - to take measures against Belgian embassies and consulates which clearly and repeatedly violate language legislation." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Tim Vandenput. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Tim Vandenput. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u52	Prime Minister, with regard to the Recovery and Resilience Facility (RRF), the European corona support or the reparations, it now appears to be confirmed what has been announced for some time: we are getting less, while we are already getting too little. There would be 5.9 billion coming from the European Corona Support Fund to Belgium, which was actually only half of what other countries received. It also appears, as we predicted, that there is still 1.4 billion going off. The result is that only 4.5 billion will come to the various Belgian authorities. Secretary of State Dermine and De Bleeker mentioned that in several answers to my questions wonderful news, because they think it proves that this country is going economically. When I point out that we have the lowest economic growth in Europe and almost the worst budget, it does not seem to impress and they still think it is wonderful news that we are getting less than too little. Mr Prime Minister, can you at last acknowledge that we have not been properly negotiated and that we are not getting enough? Do you persist in anger and continue to think it is normal that these other countries get much more? We are the country that loses the most percentage, namely 23% of what was previewed or 1.4 billion. No other European country loses so much percentage. I'm sure you've seen those figures, too. Are you happy that we lose the most of all European countries? If you would say that you do not mind and that it is a good agreement, can you tell me why your administration and the diplomatic network are doing everything they can to ensure that the REPowerEU plan uses different parameters than the RRF? If you thought the RRF parameters were so wonderful, it would be logical for them to apply to REPowerEU, but that does not seem to be the case. Can you explain that? We have seen that the Walloon Government, through Prime Minister Di Rupo, is raising a question for compensation. They feel underwhelmed in the division between the Regions, which is, however, the subject of an agreement that they themselves have concluded. Mr Dermine said in the newspaper - let me paraphrase it - that if the floods had occurred in Flanders, the federal aid measures would have come much faster. Like there hasn't been any support. I refer to the loan granted by the federal government in a legally creative way. Mr Di Rupo is therefore asking for additional resources to compensate for this. What do you plan to do with that? I suppose you will refer to the Consultation Committee, but it would be nice if you could give some more specific information. The European deal that was concluded is not linked to a list of designs and reforms, but simply to those parameters and that formula. You have committed yourself to a lot of things, regardless of whether it is EUR 5.9 or EUR 4.5 billion. You cannot simply make reforms or projects out of them, because they are linked to the formula. How will you deal with that? This means that the federal government itself will have to step up or find another solution. I would like to hear confirmation that the level of ambition is not falling.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u53	Mr Loones, it is true that the Commission has finally decided that Belgium will receive EUR 4.53 billion. That is indeed less than initially foreseen. Our country has been very alert in this discussion. I raised the effects of this recalculation in the European Council. There were also very intensive discussions with the Commission. We are, in a way, victims of our own success. The first 70% of the funds were allocated on the basis of a provisional allocation key. The remaining 30% would be distributed among those countries most in need based on the performance of their economies. The Belgian economy recovered better last year than predicted from the corona crisis. Instead of a contraction of 4.6 % for the years 2020 and 2021, the economy grew by 0.1 % during that period. In certain crisis situations, such as during the corona crisis, we found that some rough parameters were used at the outset for the first distribution. On this basis, an initial investment planning was made, which is now being crossed, which is certainly not ideal. The mere pursuit of the earlier parameters is not the right approach anyway, since each plan also has its own finality and the needs and opportunities vary from country to country. The more precise the parameters, the more the final result is considered fair. Our country is indeed losing quite a bite. This is also the case for the Netherlands. In the period considered for the calculation of the allocated part of the Recovery and Resilience Facility, Belgium has done a lot better. We've endured the corona pandemic a lot better than other countries. So we are somewhat the victims of our own success. As far as REPowerEU is concerned, I have been very clear in the European Council. I do not see why we should use the same parameters for REPowerEU as for the RRF. The RRF had to do with a pandemic and REPowerEU has to do with an energy crisis, a completely different situation. I was absolutely not the only one who made that point. Well, I was the first to mention this. Many countries have joined in because they do not want to accept the same key being used. I have indeed received a letter from the Walloon Government concerning the allocation of funds from that European recovery fund. As I said earlier, we now know the final amount our country is entitled to. It is true that the distribution of funds depends on achieving a number of milestones. In this context, the Prime Minister sent me a letter because certain reforms depend on cooperation between the entities. This letter is now being further examined in the context of the overall follow-up to the European Recovery Plan. The final amount awarded will, of course, also have an impact on the Länder. For the time being, it was not foreseen that the federal government would pay a form of compensation for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u54	Mr Prime Minister, that was very interesting, as always. I understand it's hard to admit that this wasn't ideal, but there's a certain tension between your respective answers. You say that you were very alert about the distribution but on the other hand you say that the continued use of the old parameters would not be correct, especially for REPowerEU. Apparently, you're not entirely satisfied with those parameters. I would have expected you to say once again that Belgium is the victim of its own success and that we will therefore receive less. That's what we've been hearing here for months. You have to show me exactly where that success manifests, because I really don't see it. Together with me, the OECD, the IMF, the Planning Bureau and the High Council for Finance do not see it. They all point out that we belong to the worst pupils of the class, not only within Europe but also in the industrialized world. You must have other figures, if we are to do so brilliantly. I note that no other European Member State is falling so much, i.e. less 23% compared to what was promised, which was actually too little. I found it interesting that you referred to Mr Di Rupo's letter. That has somewhat stimulated my interest. I expected him to ask for compensation in that, and apparently that was what it said. You said the federal government today has no intention of providing that compensation. It is important that this should also be said in Parliament. You also referred to the fact that Mr Di Rupo is linking what his state needs to do with the milestones that need to be organised. I would like to know more about that. I will therefore put forward further questions. After all, people can see these links. If the Länder are to meet or want to meet a number of objectives, they will also have to switch to federal level. This interaction inspires additional questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u55	Prime Minister, I have already asked you this question in writing, but I have never received an answer. Meanwhile, the subject has returned to the press. Indeed, the Vif-L'Express brings new insights and questions on the subject. It seems that some ministers – David Clarinval, for example – have an office accommodation paid for by public finances and others do not. In addition, all ministers – with or without office accommodation – would receive non-taxable allowances covering, among other things, housing expenses. Prime Minister, how many members of the government have office accommodation paid for by public finances? Who is it? How do you justify this advantage? What is the amount of rent of this type paid by the State? Additional costs (heating, electricity, internet connection, etc.) Are they also responsible to the State? If so, for what amount? Is staff assigned to this accommodation? Do you confirm that ministers in receipt of such service accommodation are nevertheless entitled to housing allowance? What is the amount? And how do you justify this duplication? You yourself have Lambermont, the Prime Minister's residence. It performs many functions, including housing. How is it that you also receive a housing allowance? In which documents are included, on the one hand, the allocation of office accommodation and, on the other hand, the details of the various allowances (housing expenses, household expenses, hospitality expenses, etc.) paid to ministers? Can I have a copy of these documents? Why are these allowances and benefits not public and why do they not appear distinctly in the budget documents?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u56	Mr President, first of all, no member of the government automatically has office accommodation, as is the case for governors, for example. A minister receives a flat-rate housing allowance for his or her private accommodation. Several ministers also have the possibility, depending on the real needs of the exercise of their functions, of having a home in Brussels, either in the buildings of the State or the cabinet, or in a specifically designated apartment. This concerns the following members of the government: Wilmès, Van Peteghem, Vandenbroucke, Clarinval, Lalieux, Verlinden, Kitir, Madhi, Michel and myself. In my case, it is indeed the building sis rue Lambermont which has several functions, but which is, in my case, only used for the real needs of the exercise of my function. I have never been there until now and I have no intention of using it for housing at all. I sleep at home and it's fine. As regards the direct accommodation costs of the Régie des Bâtiments, this represents an annual total of approximately 96,372 euros. As far as ancillary costs are concerned, this depends on the situation. Some costs are absorbed by the Régie des Bâtiments, which provides the property; in other cases, the fees are paid through the firm's credits. For this reason, it is not possible to give an overall calculation of these costs. I am not aware of the employment of specific staff. This is an administrative practice as applied by the Régie des Bâtiments or as provided for in the conventions for buildings or for specific offices. For specific details, you can contact the Secretary of State responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments or the respective members of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u57	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. They seem a little incomplete to me. There was a central question: what is the justification for these function dwellings on the one hand, and for the allowance on the other; and above all for the cumulation of the two? You did not deny that there was such a cumulation. But then, how can we justify it? For a simple worker, it is already difficult to conceive that you will receive a job accommodation free of charge. Strictly speaking, let's admit. But then, why maintain an allowance that covers the same thing, that is, this dwelling? Besides, you've given me little detail. I had asked in which documents it could be found and whether I could dispose of those documents. There is no transparency in this regard. You're sending me back to the ministers in question. Both in terms of transparency and in terms of the justification for this duplication, I find your answer rather vague, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u58	Mr Prime Minister, over the last few months we have heard several cry for more money for police, justice, the public sector and SNCB. On 31 May, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Civil Service responded fairly quickly to her reply that she understood the distress call made by the government staff and that she was in favour of more investment in the sector, because a lot has been saved in recent years. You did not agree with that and you reacted differently. In the meantime, the Minister of Civil Service has concluded an agreement with the trade unions for a rise of 7% in various forms. There are major budgetary efforts to be made in Belgium. We don't have to be crazy about that. However, we in the government still lack this very important debate on the core tasks of the government. That could put us in the right direction for a long time. What are your views on the 7% wage premium agreement reached by Minister De Sutter? Will you respond to this during the next budget negotiations? The key question is how the entire government will react to this. Where will the extra money come from? Playing Saint Nicholas is very nice, but the bag must always be filled. Do you dare to acknowledge that in many respects there is no shortage of money and staff in our country, but that there is a huge difference in our apparatus between the revenue and the quality of the service we get instead? Do you agree? Finally, are you prepared to embark on the core tasks debate and play a coordinating role in it? How will you do that and ensure that all trade ministers do their job?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u59	Questions about core tasks give rise to a debate that is sometimes ideologically coloured, as each group may have its views on what is right now the essential tasks of a government. To some extent, I can follow that money and staff are not always the solution to tackle certain societal challenges. When it comes to pleas for additional staff or refinancing, it can never hurt to wonder whether the structures are still adapted to the needs, such as in the police and the judiciary, where the call for more resources often sounds. There may also be the question whether the current organisation of these domains is still the most relevant. It is rather ambitious that the Prime Minister could draw up a core task and efficiency plan for the entire federal government. I always urge every minister to review expenditure on a permanent basis. In the context of the budgetary discussions, we will continue to work on the so-called spending reviews, which we started with at the beginning of this legislature. The Secretary of State for the Budget is supervising that process.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u60	Core tasks are the basis for savings. We need to be clear about that. Each may lay its accents, but in the end you will have to reach a consensus in the government, otherwise everyone will continue to spend. That's not a good idea. I understand from your answer that a key task debate is still too much of a far-from-my-bed show, and I find that extremely regrettable. You also did not answer the questions about the 7% increase promised by Mrs De Sutter and where the money might come from. We'll follow the file closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u61	Mr De Vuyst is not present for his question No. 55028909C.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u62	Mr President, Prime Minister, this question concerns the number of staff in the various government canteens. I've been trying to get that data up for a while, but I can't. I asked you a written question on this in December 2021, as was the case with all other ministers. The other ministers didn't want to answer, that you were going to answer for everyone. You did the same thing on February 11th. You said that you replied for the whole team, but that it is the autonomy of the ministers to decide exactly what to do. I have rewritten all the ministers saying that you had replied but actually referred to the autonomy of the ministers. I asked the ministers how they fulfilled this autonomy, how they deal with their government appropriations. All the ministers replied that they were not going to reply themselves and referred to you to reply at once. Well, that's what you've done. You have given one general answer. But then you found a different reply and said that you could not say how the ministers were going to save, because this is about the future and that savings can only be analysed if they have been implemented, so that control can only be given somewhere next year, when you know exactly what happened. It makes me a little nervous. I do not think that is correct. It is a question of principle which I would like to put to you. Each budget is by definition about the future, about the intentions of the government. A parliament should have the opportunity to know and monitor those intentions. Your answer actually states that these intentions do not matter, that I have to come back within a year and then get an insight into the figures. I spoke to the President of the Chamber about this. She told me that I am right to assume that the ministers are accountable to Parliament, that Members of Parliament should use all the means of parliamentary control to that end. However, she continued to say that an answer which the questioner does not like is and remains an answer. I do not like the answer, Prime Minister. I know it's an answer, but I don't like it. I'd like to get some clarity. Please give us the figures so that we can not only follow them up but actually monitor them, so that there is transparency for the population, so that we do not have to deal with general excel tables by Mrs De Bleeker. And then we get blamed for using them in a parliamentary debate. If we get side-by-side information and use that information, we will be accused of getting that information from the Secretary of State for Budget would not be correct. There's a way to fix that easily. It is enough to open your computer, remove the exceltable and send it to eliane.tillieux@dekamer.be or @lachambre.be.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u63	Mr President, Prime Minister, in Belgium, about 2,000 people work in ministerial offices. Under this government, federal ministers saw the number of their collaborators increase from 769 to 838. This is an average of 41 employees per minister. According to an article in La Libre Belgique, the operation of the federal government would cost 13 million more than Mr Michel's previous government. It is sometimes said that in Belgium there are many people who work in the firms because of a large coordination charge, very broad coalitions, which would justify having such important firms. But it is enough to see what is happening in other countries that are functioning while their situation is even more complicated than ours. In Denmark, for example, each minister has only four or five special advisers. In the Netherlands, there are only three advisers. "In France, when they are told that we have between 50 and 80 cabinettards in Belgium per minister, they hallucinate," says La Libre Belgique. In this country, they are between 20 and 30. Firms are therefore smaller while this country counts – we must say – a few more inhabitants than ours. Prime Minister, if, as Mr Loones asked, you could give us precise figures, that would be interesting. But I would also like to know your opinion on the very large size of the firms in Belgium. Does that mean you don't trust the administration? Don't you think we need to work directly with this one? How do you justify such a difference with our neighbours who have more inhabitants than our country? Do you intend to implement a reform to reduce the number of employees in the firm? Could you consider requesting a comparative law study of firms in Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u64	Mr Loones, every euro issued by the cabinet must, of course, be accountable to the government. It is not a problem to communicate about the appropriations and current composition of the Cabinets. These data are in the budget and can be delivered without problems. From this, you can also conclude that the appropriations of the Cabinets saved 1.1% this year. These are sealed envelopes. It is not possible for a cabinet to exceed the appropriations. Those are the established facts. You asked if there were government members with higher savings ambitions and what the intentions and plans of government members were about the various aspects of cabinet operation. It seems logical to me that you should ask the Ministers this question during the current financial year. It is difficult to objectively list any measure that he or she still wants to achieve. It is also a definite rule that Parliament's right of control is not intended to impose binding directives on ministers. For this reason, in principle, the determination of ministers' intentions in parliamentary questions is not permitted. On this point, I expressed reservations on behalf of the government in the written replies. For example, if a Member of Parliament were to ask a minister how many FTEs would work in his cabinet at the end of the year, that minister would be bound by what has been declared in Parliament, whereas the actual budget in this area has not determined anything. The Minister must achieve the objectives set out in the government agreement and be taken into account. No parameters can be added afterwards. It is possible, through questions, to determine whether the objectives are being achieved, but not all members of the government will already be able to explain any measure they intend to take between now and the end of the year. Mrs Merckx, the debate on the role and size of firms is old. I note that cabinets also exist at other levels of government. This is certainly not just a federal problem. I can repeat here that this government is saving money on the cabinets. We save 1.11% on budgets every year. At the beginning of this government, we also decided to do so with 8% less collaborators than members of the government are theoretically entitled to. It is true that Belgium with its coalition governments has a political system where the degree and need for political coordination are high. It is also true that there is certainly a lot of knowledge and expertise in our public administration, but in the current context, it is not possible for a minister to rely simply on his or her own administration to define a political strategy. Things can probably be different. I think a debate on our political culture is certainly not inappropriate, but I do not intend to make bold statements here saying that we are going to abolish or halve the practice overnight. Firms also play an important role in this area in terms of consultation and communication with companies. I do not want this added value to be wasted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u65	Mr Prime Minister, once again I am not satisfied with your answer. You say that all the data are in the budget, but you know that is not correct. We can look at the macro figures of the Cabinets, but we do not know how many FTE are employed, or how many concrete staff per cabinet there are. Other governments do communicate about this transparently. We don't know how many cabinets work with posted workers. We just don't have those numbers. However, we have a general table of the Secretary of State for the Budget, which was delivered to me in October. You had the ambition for the 2022 budget to save 1.9 million on the Cabinets, but in the course of budgetary control in April you immediately decided to halve that effort. You will not save 1.9 million in the Cabinets this year, but only half of it. We can see these figures in the budget. You had first communicated that you would do something, but now you may do half. You once again point out that we need to question individual ministers. I do, but they refer back to you. I will continue to do so until it gets so on your nerves that you provide transparent data. In the past ministers communicated that they had higher ambitions to save on Cabinets, such as Minister Dermagne, but he dropped that ambition: he acts like the rest and has no desire to set an example. You seem to be insinuating that, through my questions, I would like to impose some kind of binding ambitions on how a minister should govern his cabinet, but that is not what this is about. It is a question of how the administration works and how a minister deals with the professionalisation of his cabinet. That's what this is about. Let me be honest, I dream that your budget would be a binding ambition. Perhaps we would not have seen an additional deficit of 4 billion added to budgetary control, because prior agreements would have been binding.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u66	Mr Minister, I do not know if you have a very busy agenda, but it is still a delicate matter, and you spoke so quickly that I barely understood the content of your answer. So I'm going to reread the report to get a better idea. In any event, one thing is clear: when you are confronted with the fact, it is that we are in the presence of an unhealthy system in Belgium, in my opinion, in the financing of political parties, for example. These parties are very heavily funded by the state, but this is also the case with the cabinets. Let us compare the situation with that of France, for example: a minister has fewer employees, while our country is objectively much smaller. Such a number of employees is therefore absolutely not justified. In addition, we juggle the figures: 1.11% savings, 8% fewer employees, but you do not report a reference year. It's powder in the eyes, homeopathy to say something, but we're still waiting for a real reform at that level. I think it's unhealthy to have so many collaborators per minister. We need to work more with the administration, it would be much healthier and much cheaper, so better for the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u67	Mr Loones, at the last committee meeting, I did say that we will be evaluating the firm effort. We are talking specifically about the budget lines that we communicated to Parliament during the investigation debate in October 2020, from which you can conclude that we will make an annual effort of 0.2 per cent by means of a growth path. This effort is therefore included in the budget table for the budget format 2022, which also mentions the variable effort. We will also evaluate this measure before the summer, namely to check whether the agreed targets are being met. For new measures, of course, I refer to the budget format in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u68	Thank you, Prime Minister, for the answer. I have noted that the budget negotiations will take place in the autumn, but that you will not lose the summer months and start the process. I understand from Mrs De Bleeker that technical working groups have already started. I sincerely hope that, as you have already announced, this fixed saving effort will certainly be completed in a concrete and detailed manner before the summer recess. I do not know if you remember that, but we had a discussion on this last year in plenary. It seems to me that those who want changes are always in a difficult position. After all, the others simply have to refuse and then he doesn't bring in anything. If you want changes, it is important to start on time and not to wait until the last moment. After all, time is always at your disadvantage. To this end, I call on you to be sufficiently ambitious in realising the commitments you have made.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u69	Prime Minister, on June 24, the Supreme Court of the United States abolished the iconic Roe vs Wade decision of 1973, which, for nearly half a century, guaranteed the right of American women to abort. Since the announcement of the Supreme Court, nine states have decided to ban abortion on their territory. In the long run, half of the United States could do the same. In some parts of the country, abortion clinics will therefore close their doors, forcing many women to travel hundreds of miles to stop their pregnancy or to take care of themselves clandestinely. "Voyager is expensive and the Supreme Court's decision will further penalise poor women and women raising children alone, over-represented in black and Hispanic minorities," the defenders of the right to abortion in the territory point out. This violent attack on women's rights has generated reactions all over the world as well as in Belgium. How does Belgium intend to position itself to denounce this violation of human rights on the part of a country designated as an ally? Have you planned an international intervention to condemn this attack on fundamental rights? What will be the consequences for our participation in international institutions of which the country in question is a member?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u70	When the decision was announced, I was one of the first international heads of government to react. I then indicated that I was very concerned about the consequences of the Supreme Court's decision and the signal it sent not only to the United States, but also to the global community as a whole. The ban on abortion, as many U.S. states are planning to do, will never lead to a reduction in the number of abortions, but rather an increase in the number of unsafe abortions. I am therefore very concerned about the consequences of this decision. This is indeed a question of fundamental rights. I take it from your question that you are looking for some retaliatory diplomatic initiative towards the United States. It is also true that there are few international instruments that would make the right to abortion applicable at the international level. For example, in Europe, some countries still have very restrictive legislation. It seems to me that a better approach would be to make even greater efforts with countries that share the same ideas to promote sexual health and reproductive rights throughout the world. In a previous position, I was one of the pioneers in this area and I am pleased that our country continues to play an active role in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic844x.u71	You condemned what happened in the United States. But you say at the same time that you no longer have the means to act towards them. When it comes to other countries, you are more creative in finding sanctions when human rights are not respected. When it comes to allies like the United States, we limit ourselves to a small condemnation and we do not go much further. We can't go on like this. We also often talk about the great example of the United States, a country of freedom, and we have seen the bloody attack that took place. Wearing weapons is allowed there. What is happening in the United States is far from ideal and I think a stronger condemnation is appropriate.
