ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u2	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I spent 20 years at the airport cleaning. Cleaning planes is hard work. This morning I went to the action of the staff of Brussels Airlines who will stop for three days. I noted that the situation has not improved at all and that it is getting worse and worse for the staff at the airport. Last Monday many people have already stopped at the airport and the airport was flat. That was never seen before. Do you know what the people of G4S and the traders tell me? They say they can't do it anymore: they have to be super flexible for a low wage, can't afford their petrol anymore and don't even have time to eat a sandwich. That's what I heard last week. What do I hear from the people of Brussels Airlines today? They're exhausted. They can't follow anymore. A pilot told me that he had a 14-hour flight with 12 hours of rest and that he had to fly back the next day. That's what they have to do. The flight crew must do 16 flights in 5 days. Can you imagine what that means, how these people are supposed to work? They must ensure the safety of passengers while they are exhausted. It's not just with us. The strike starts tomorrow at Ryanair. Those people too are no longer able to work super flexiblely for a low wage. In other countries we see the same thing happening. It cannot go on like this and we see the same thing in other countries as well. Mr Minister, will you draw up an emergency plan for the airport for the summer holidays so that all passengers can travel properly? Will you involve the unions in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u3	Minister, there are two points of view on these strikes. If I wanted to go on vacation now with my children, I would obviously be disappointed since we're out of season. But I am thinking of these workers and those workers who know that today, through their action, they are unpopular. It obviously doesn't make them happy to ruin people's vacations and they really have to be at the end of the roll to get there. Why are they on strike? Because simply, they're toasting. They are the ones who pay the price so that others can travel at a lower cost and so that the companies can continue to turn: reduction of staff, non-compliance with joint agreements, overload of work, and this morning the complaint to the Social Inspectorate for obstructing the right to strike. Let's say it clearly! It is a whole sector that has been sinking for more than 20 years into an ultra-liberal logic of fierce competition. In fact, a worker interviewed this morning in Le Soir sums up the situation: "At 49 euros, the social conflict is included in the plane ticket." Mr Minister, is it not time to have a more socially binding European framework for a sector far beyond our borders? How do you intend to enforce the joint agreements and the right to strike in this sector, which also received State aid during the co-vid period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Even before the COVID-19 pandemic, which hit the sector economically hard, the aviation sector was under pressure, not least because of the ryanairisation of the sector. Working conditions are under pressure. In the current social conflicts, in addition to wage conditions, factors such as sufficient staff, work organisation and the planning of timetables also play a major role. In particular, for flight personnel there is also a question of safety. In this context, the accumulation of fatigue is an important safety risk, and this risk is not always taken into account in discussions between workers' representatives and the various directorates of the sector. It is not just a Belgian problem, because we also see in other countries that working conditions are under pressure. It is therefore clear, Mrs Thémont, that these concerns must also be addressed at European level. We are working hard on the concrete implementation of the European social pillar. I would like to take your relevant inquiry into this matter into account in the discussions that we will have in the next few days. I can only regret, together with you, the failure so far to reach concrete agreements through the social dialogue. That's too bad. As you know, several conciliation meetings have taken place under the chairmanship of a social mediator of my administration. For the time being, however, the parties failed to come up with solutions together. Of course, the decision to resort to collective action, in particular strike action, belongs only to workers, workers and their representatives. As you said, Mrs. Thémont, this decision is never taken lightly and it is, each time, an expression of real suffering. This is still the case here today. I'm convinced of that. The right to strike is a fundamental right and can be exercised freely by everyone. This obviously means that the employer must not put pressure on the workers or their representatives not to stop. I sincerely hope that the full exercise of this right will allow us to reconsider and reconcile the different positions in order to be able – allow me the expression – to "land" in these conflicts, especially before the wave of holiday departures for the lucky Belgians who will have the opportunity to travel. I therefore call on all parties to resume a constructive dialogue as soon as possible, with a focus on its content.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u5	Minister, the government has a great responsibility in this matter. EUR 290 million went to Brussels Airlines, EUR 290 million, a blank cheque! We said at the time that it was a blank cheque. There have been a thousand layoffs without a single condition and now the people are in the shit, in the thick shit. That's the government's responsibility. The government is still a major shareholder of Brussels Airport and they too must make a big deal of money. There too, they must take responsibility, as in Schiphol. At Schiphol Airport, after a lot of trouble for passengers, the airport had to do something for the employees. So can Zaventem. That's your responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answer. Today, can an airline survive if it offers a sustainable economic model? I think the question is also answered. As a result of bankruptcies in buybacks, the working conditions of an entire sector are deteriorating from year to year. Social peace is the outcome to guarantee all workers and workers good working conditions, as well as well-deserved holidays. Of course, we're counting on you to take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u7	Mr Minister, I will start with the good news: it is not all bad news in the labour market. First of all, seven out of ten job students are active in the labour market throughout the year as a job student. So that doesn't just happen on vacation. It is a good thing that we have increased the maximum number of hours in recent years, even during the corona crisis. The help of those young people who want to put their hands up is more than welcome. The increase in efficacy is also positive. It's never been this high. You say that all the time. However, in order not to slow down our businesses, we must continue to act. I am thinking primarily of the mobility of workers across the linguistic border and beyond the boundaries of the regions. It is really hard to explain that there is so much unemployment in Brussels, while there are a little further away in Zaventem too few hands. This is also the case for Hainaut and South West Flanders. The Regions should make agreements with each other with your help to guide jobseekers with a greater urge for jobs across the language and regional borders. There's really no time to lose. Where do you stand on the implementation of the agreements in the employment deal on inter-Western labour mobility? The three regions should use the same interpretation of the appropriate employment relationship, which, in the event of refusal, places a penalty on the job seeker. In this way, jobs across regional boundaries will be better filled. Have you put this on the table yet? Will you make agreements with the regions, so that more efforts are made to encourage finding a job in another region? Should the policy of sanctions of regional services be more focused on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u8	Mrs. De Jonge, as you can see, student work is very important this year. This is partly due to the fact that in all three regions of the country we are dealing with bottlenecks. In addition to measures to combat the bottleneck professions, we have already taken measures within the federal government to promote inter-regional mobility of workers. For example, unemployed people who are unemployed for more than one year and find a job in another region will be able to temporarily retain part of their unemployment benefit from September onwards. That was one of the three recommendations of the experts in their report. We have also set up an inter-federal platform to formulate and analyse proposals to improve the mobility of workers and to combat the bottleneck professions. The secretariat of this interfederal platform is provided by the VDAB. As you know, Mrs de Jonge, most of the levers in this area fall within the competence of the regions. I am convinced that regional employment services could improve their synergies by updating their cooperation agreements. I would also like to stress that the fight against the bottleneck professions will not be solved solely through interregional mobility. The different sectors with many bottleneck professions need to monitor them and propose measures to deal with them. I am convinced that we must analyse the causes of the deficits, which are often multiple. We need to consider how to make these jobs more attractive.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u9	Minister, I know that you have already proposed a number of measures. It is true that interregional labour mobility is a competence of the Regions. However, you regularly organise employment conferences, where you meet your colleagues. I would urge you to take on a coordinating role there, to sit down with those ministers and make real progress on a plan in this area. I really think you should be the architect of this domain. I'm gonna keep hammering on that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u10	Mr. Secretary, have you ever been to Zelzate? I would advise you to do that again, because we are doing a great job there, together with the comrades of Vooruit. After all, we have implemented a fair tax shift there. As someone from CD&V, you should sound like music to the ears because you also support the principle that the strongest shoulders should carry the heaviest loads. We do that in Zelzate. You're also responsible for taxation, so I'll give you free inspiration from Zelzate. We are going through a tax shift in which we ask for a greater contribution from the multinationals on our territory. In return, we give the self-employed and the residents a discount. We give a 100 euro discount to the self-employed, with which we in Zelzate do more for the self-employed than the liberals have ever done. We are also going to abolish the unjust environmental tax of EUR 55 for all residents and we will not pass on the waste bill that has risen by EUR 100,000 to the citizens. That really is an honest tax shift in the true sense of the word. That is a political choice, but where there is a will, there is a way. Our Rules of Procedure have even passed the legal test of the Council of State, the highest judicial body in the country. The best part of the regulation is that it means a world of difference for all residents who get a wage freeze imposed by the government and pay themselves blue in energy. On the other hand, the largest companies feel much less of what they have to contribute proportionally more. That is also what we need at national level, which is why I ask you when you will implement that fair tax shift federally. When will you finally make a fair and just effort on the part of the multinationals and the greatest capabilities?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u11	Mr De Vuyst, it is good that you, as Zelzate's ships, are here to please us with all the work you are doing locally. As a politician who is also locally active, I fully understand that, but of course you understand that I cannot go into the details of the local tax rules you are referring to here. You know as well as I do that local authorities have different levers in their hands to encourage living, living, working and entrepreneurship in their congregation. I will therefore always support and defend this local autonomy, which I consider to be very important, when it remains within the limits of the law. You also understand, of course, that we must also work within such a particular fiscal framework at the federal level. Our income tax also applies a very strict principle, namely the principle of equality. This is an important foundation of any fair, well-functioning tax system that must be respected. Within this fiscal framework at the federal level, we also apply the principle that the toughest burdens must be borne by the broadest shoulders. You know that a new and historic, global minimum tax will be introduced for multinational companies. This tax was created under the impetus of this government, of Belgium and of myself. We are also working hard to implement them effectively. So I can at least tell you that you will always find a partner in this government to put the right burdens on the right shoulders.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u12	Minister, you say that the government is already applying the principle of the strongest shoulders bearing the heavy burden. That is in stark contrast to reality. After all, it is always the working people who carry the most burdens and the big companies and families behind them who see their assets increase. There's a security tax, but well, you also know that the biggest asset is with the people who own shares by name. Your President once said on 1 May that we should also tax the 1% richest in order to reduce the burden on ordinary people. This is also a proposal for a tax shift supported by five of the seven Vivaldi parties. Even as PVDA, we want to deliver an exchange majority to make that possible! Colleagues from Vooruit, PS, Green, Ecolo and CD&V, we want to make that possible in the end to make fiscal justice possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u13	Madam President, everyone in the Conference of Presidents agreed to move this sitting forward for an hour to take into account the busy agenda of the Prime Minister, who had to go to a European summit. I note that this early meeting has been going on for half an hour. Meanwhile, the next minister, who is on time, is to answer questions. I would like to ask you if you have any idea when the Prime Minister, for whom this meeting was brought forward for an hour, will be present.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u14	I just got the message that he'll be here in five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u15	Madam President, Minister, today's press reports a ruling condemning certain investigative practices of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes (SII) to the extent that they constitute "a serious intrusion into the right to privacy". Indeed, in the course of a tax investigation, the ISI had asked Proximus for copies of invoices. Proximus refused to produce them to him for a matter of privacy. The administration wanted to have access to these invoices to demonstrate the use of certain telephone or call numbers in order to conclude that taxpayers who were supposed to reside abroad and therefore did not file a declaration in Belgium actually lived in Belgium and therefore had to do so. Following this refusal, Proximus was subjected to very heavy tax fines. The operator therefore went to court. She was right because the judge decided that the tax administration is bound by certain limits, namely the right to privacy and confidentiality of communications. The MR is particularly vigilant in the face of drifts, unreasonable encroachments on individual freedoms. Minister, what follow-up will you give to this resounding decision? Will you issue a circular to the ISI to ensure that the conclusions of the judgment are respected? On the other hand, what is the status of your anti-fraud plan, which provides for a disproportionate tax period of ten years, which we have already raised with you with regard to our concerns?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u16	Madam President, Mrs Gilson, the government constantly stresses the importance of the fight against fraud, not only in order to ensure that fraudsters are properly taxed, but even more so in order to ensure the fairness of the tax system. With regard to the judgment of the court of first instance, the inquiry of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes is part of the use of private international tax constructions on the basis of so-called homelessness fraud. The administration must apply the rules of procedure in each tax investigation, respecting the privacy and rights of the taxpayer. There's no doubt about that. The judgement itself balances the use by my administration of these legal investigative possibilities with the special provisions of the Electronic Communications Act. The government is also aware that a clear legal framework is important when it comes to requesting data from telecom operators. The Data Retention Act, as adopted in committee on 10 June, creates this legal framework. It goes without saying that my administration will study the judgement and consider the steps to be taken to relentlessly pursue the fight against private international tax constructions and home fraud within the limits of this law on data retention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u17	Thank you for your answer, Minister. The government agreement plans to raise EUR 1 billion through a better fight against tax fraud, and we support you in this. However, we must remain in the rule of law. My group will therefore table a bill to contain the Antigone case law, which validates the evidence collected illegally by the tax administration. It is not normal for us for an offender and a bank robber to have more rights than a taxpayer. We encourage you to ensure that all the rules that are imposed are reviewed every time, also by the right taxpayers. The lives of good taxpayers should not be unnecessarily increased by administrative constraints and the risk of breaches of privacy, which undermine our rule of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u18	Prime Minister, while the airports are stalling by strike for ordinary people, your government flew IS terrorists and their children to Belgium. The repatriation of those Syrian gangsters is supposedly in the interests of national security, as they are going under lock and key here. Meanwhile, it is known that of the six IS-gangsters who were brought here less than a year ago, two are still under lock and key. At least one of the new crew already received military training. It's about this mother. (The Member shows a picture) You do not like me calling them gangsters or terrorists, I will call them Mother. She calls herself Um Qatab. She said in earlier phone calls that she wants to die for the cause. Do you really believe that she has a heart for our society all of a sudden? The condition for bringing those involved here is that they should no longer be supporters of IS. What is such an explanation? As much as any statement by your Minister of Justice to make justice more criminal. Nothing at all. Prime Minister, I have four specific questions for you and I hope that for a change I will get an answer to those questions. First of all, is it true that one of those repatriated IS women refused to leave Al Roj last summer, because her mother wasn't allowed to come? Secondly, is it true that the sixth repatriated woman has been getting tough in the last week? Did he meet the people of the preparatory mission there? Did any DNA tests happen in that case? Thirdly, has there been any talk with the Kurds about bringing the children back alone without the mothers? Fourthly, the previous repatriation of IS terrorists cost 1.7 million euros. I would have liked the total cost to the taxpayer of the (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u19	Mr Prime Minister, less than a year ago you and Mr Van Quickenborne took the political decision to actively repatriate six IS terrorists. That's what happened. That could cost a sloppy 2 million. Repatriation was, after all, a matter of national security. That's what you keep saying. You say that they are going under lock and key here and that we can keep following and monitoring them here. However, out of the six people involved, two are currently under lock and key. I understand there are two in complete freedom and two are free under conditions. No way they are followed 24 hours at 24 hours. So we can speak of failure. The repatriation was a fiasco. The vox populi showed you that, too. Nevertheless, you are taking the same political decision again. The federal prosecutor has repeated a few times that it is a political decision, with two Airbuses and a Falcon and after months of preparation, to repatriate six IS terrorists to our country. We know how that will end. I hope you know who was on that plane. Those aren't kittens to handle without gloves. They did not repent at all, when I was not allowed to speak to them so much long ago, after you said that we had to judge them there and they had to stay there, because the last thing we wanted was to bring them back. They had no remorse and no remorse. But oh takiyya, as the ground under their feet gets too hot, they put in their joker, being their children, and ask you and Van Quickenborne to pick them up, because they will be tried here. But how is that going to happen here? After all, there is no burden of proof here. It's over there. It has already been proven that they can be released after a few months. I would like to know the following in a very specific way. What did the new repatriation cost us and our state treasury? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u20	Thank you for the questions, because they give me the opportunity to show the difference and to make it clear how we look at national security from the government. We look at national security on the basis of facts and analysis by professionals and not on the basis of emotions, inciting and fear. Our security services are made up of professionals who do nothing but carry out analyses to ensure the best possible safety in our country. I quote the OCAD, which makes analyses of our safety: "Thanks to this action we have more control. For our national security, a controlled return offers the best guarantee of a proper follow-up by all services concerned." That's what professionals say about that, who can make abstraction out of emotions and inciting. That is how one can expect a government to deal with national security, based on professional analysis and facts with reason and after reflection. I note that that does not convince you, but it does show how some in the opposition deal with national security, namely on the basis of emotions; it shows that they do not dare to deal with the facts. That's obvious. We are not the only country to deal with the issue in this way either. Germany and the Netherlands also do this in exactly the same way. Besides, every year there are hundreds of illegals on our territory. There are hundreds of illegals in our prisons and we send them back to the country of origin. That is part of the policy, which you yourself support. Criminal illegals in our country are sent back to the country of origin. However, if we want to take back our subjects, who have been convicted here, you say no. That's not how it works. Apparently it does apply in one direction, but not in the other direction for you. I find that difficult to accept in a rule of law. Then I come to the point of succession. You ask what happened to those people next. Well, those six women were transferred to prison and locked up. In a state of law, the Justice Department decides whether people still pose a danger to society at some point. A number of women were released and succeeded. You know what's so interesting about that? This succession shows that the vast majority of them take up their lives again, integrate into our society and take care of their children. They have understood that they have had one last chance here and that they must seize it with both hands. You believe the only solution is to put them in prison for the rest of their lives. We believe that they deserve a second chance if they want to, so that they can raise and offer opportunities to their children under the age of 12. That is indeed the difference between our views. Madam President, I'm going to take a few more things. We have indeed spoken with the Kurds. The Kurds who run these camps do not allow children to be separated from their mothers. We tried that in the past, but it didn't work. That is why we have made a reasoned choice to bring those sixteen children back and only those mothers whose threat analysis indicates that they are not a threat to our society. Three or four mothers were not recalled, because that threat analysis was carried out very meticulously. I would like to make one final point, Madam President, if I may. This operation wasn't easy. More than thirty soldiers and diplomats participated. I think everyone has the greatest respect for the professionalism these people have shown for this operation. It does scare me that during that operation, some, including in this hemisphere, could not withhold confidential information about it, while our soldiers were still in a dangerous situation, unlike so many others who were aware of this operation, but who treated this information discreetly until everyone was safe. That's the difference. Those who understand the seriousness of the situation understand that our military are trying to deal with this professionally and show respect for it. They only comment afterwards, but some have soldiers and diplomats in (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u21	Prime Minister, there is no room for IS terrorists here. Their victims don't get a second chance either. It is not because you have international ambitions and because the Americans are asking you to get as many of them back as possible, that you should do that nicely. They are knowingly and willingly drawn there and have to bear the consequences of that. They must be tried and punished where they have committed their atrocities, not here. More control, Prime Minister, we know what that means here. Terror in this country, that was a collection of jihadists who were supposedly controlled. Half of the attackers from Paris came from Molenbeek. Of the 140 ISs that already came back, more than ten percent of the OCAD list has already been deleted. Those are facts, Prime Minister. Instead of continuing to play tour operators for terrorists, you would better do what you promised, namely to ensure that criminals serve their sentence in full, rather than bringing terrorists back with impunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u22	The Morning, page 8, there it was printed, before anyone posted it here. It was in the printed press. You say you don't act on the basis of emotions. There's nothing emotional about actively repatriating terrorists, that's just absurd, pure absurdity. Do you know what's emotional? Leave the victims in the cold, Minister. That's emotional. I hear here saying it's nice to see them take that second, that last chance. Prime Minister, these victims are not given a second chance. Someone was on the plane with a direct link to Abaaoud. I hope you know who was on the plane and know who Abaaoud was. This is another sledgehammer to the face of all those victims. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u23	Madam President, I am not under any illusions about the impact of what I am saying, but I would like to point out that Mr Metsu closed the microphone after 2 minutes and 1 second, while the Prime Minister of the 4 minutes allocated to him used 5 minutes and 51 seconds. I'm establishing that. I am not under any illusions about that remark. Once again, it has been shown that two sizes and two weights are measured here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u24	Mr De Roover, it depends on how you intend to organise a parliamentary debate. Since you are asking to speak, I assume you have an opinion on this. Firstly, in my answer I have taken several breaks because there was a reaction on your part. I think it's only natural for me to deal with that. Secondly, it was an important debate, but perhaps you would prefer the debate to be cut short, with which we stick perfectly to a four-minute speaking time, rather than taking a little time to reply. Frankly, if that is your definition of democracy, then that is a very weak definition.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u25	Prime Minister, you used some of your speaking time to make false accusations. It is perhaps a good thing for your services to check how this information ends up in a newspaper, rather than accuse Members of the fact that they are releasing information. If your services work well, I wonder how Members of this House can have such information at all. There was news in the paper. In addition, I am in favour of a good debate. I would even give you two more minutes of speaking time, although you have already done so, despite the six minutes, you have not answered all the questions put. If you take additional speaking time, I hope you will use it to give an answer, not to formulate false accusations. I am concerned with the principle of equal monks, equal hoods. Apparently you are not a monk, but an abbot, and you have a slightly different hood than the Members of Parliament. I'm suing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u26	Mr De Roover, the two Members who asked the question...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u27	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u28	When I speak, it is also important to listen to what I am trying to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u29	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u30	Is there any respect in this room?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u31	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u32	Is there any respect in this room? Mr De Roover, the two Members who asked the question had the opportunity to use more time for their reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u33	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u34	I suggested it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u35	Mr. Secretary, where can I find a doctor today? That is a question that we hear more and more often from people, because their family doctor is retired or has thrown the towel in the ring. It's not a coincidence. We note that the workload is increasing and that general practitioners have to work harder, faster and longer. Recently it appeared that one GP in three is considering stopping working. It's not just about COVID-19. That is a problem that has been going on for a long time and has to do with the organisation of our society, which is rather complicated and which the doctors are confronted with. In fact, they are sending out a signal like a canary in the coal mine, but so are other sectors. We see this in education, in the police and in residential care centres. Minister, you show that it is not just a matter of different things to do, but also of different things to do. For Forward it is very important that we lift those blockades, break the standstill and that there are no sacred cottages. That's exactly what your new deal is about. We really need a thorough change in the general practitioner function. If it's hard to find a GP today, it'll be even harder tomorrow. You will invest not only more, but also more differently. That is important and it is also what the general practitioners ask. You put the new deal on the table. How will you roll out this plan so that the general practitioners we need as much as possible will feel the difference as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u36	Mrs Vanpeborgh, it is indeed absolutely necessary to support the practice of general practitioners. I would like to make concrete progress over the next two years in releasing general practitioners from pointless administrative work by making the certificates requested today when they prescribe a medicine easier and also asking for a little less of those certificates, by making certificates of incapacity for work easier and by not asking the doctor for the sickness certificate for some workers in certain circumstances. So I want less senseless administrative activity. On that first track, I really want to get ahead for the next two years. Secondly, I want to support the practice of general practitioners with people with a different profile, practical assistants, nurses and so on. This requires a thorough reform, including the way in which we finance general practitioners' practice. I would like, among other things, to set up, together with young general practitioners, a working group to consider the future of the profession, the purpose of this profession and the way in which this profession should be financed. I talked about a new deal, because we have to work together with the general practitioners and especially with engaged young general practitioners like the people of Jong Domus. The whole society needs to realise that it has a lot to gain from strong general practitioners and that it also needs to do something about it, invest more and, above all, invest differently. In addition to the reform yards that we already have in the healthcare sector, we are thus getting an important new yard.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u37	Minister, the challenge is immense. You will actually reform but at the same time do not press the pause button. People continue to need a general practitioner every day, even as you reform. If you want to carry out these reforms, it is indeed essential that you take the field with you. You will do this together with the field of work. That's important. Only together are we strong, we can think about creative solutions and create a basis for support. Hopefully there will be a change very soon for all those general practitioners who are considering stopping today. That would be a waste of talent and a loss to society.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u38	Mr Minister, tax fraud is a crime in our country, quite rightly, of course. Because some people do not want to do their part, others have to contribute far too much. That is why this government is making the fight against tax fraud a priority. Tax fraud is rarely committed alone. This involves the involvement of financial experts, for example. Europe is asking us to criminalise anyone who is actively involved in the laundering of money from crime, including tax fraud. That too is quite right, because cheaters can only be dealt with by tackling their network as well. I now hear, Minister, that our country is already a year and a half late in transposing the stricter European rules. In fact, exceptions would be sought for banks and accountants. I hear arguments that I find hallucinating, to be honest. It would, so to speak, lead to an enormous amount of reports of suspicious money flows. Furthermore, I hear that the hunt is not going to open on the little fraudster. Colleagues, I hope that more reports just lead to a better fight against money laundering. I hope it's the intention to tackle all the fraudsters. What else would our message be to the honest taxpayer? Let it be clear that the fight against tax fraud is a top priority for Vooruit. To us zero tolerance for tax fraud means that not only the tax fraudsters are being dealt with, but also everyone who bears co-responsibility. That is why, Minister, I would like to ask you to transpose the stricter European rules into Belgian law as quickly and fully as possible. We can no longer stall. We can't give fraudsters more time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u39	Mr Minister, home, garden and kitchen fraud, what does that mean? That is the term that we use today for small fraud cases, as if it were part of our culture, as if it were part of our DNA, as if we had to provide an additional chapter in the newcomer integration course. How do I integrate best? With house, garden and kitchen fraud. Surely we cannot accept some forms of fraud? Surely it is not possible that we do not take some forms of fraud seriously and that the law is not the same for everyone? Europe has already expressed its views on this issue. There is a directive that requires each Member State to take action against small fraud cases, but our country does not. This legislation should have been in force for 18 months, but it does not yet exist. The objection to this is that there would be too many reports. There would be too much data, which would drown large fraud cases in the sea of data from small fraud cases. We live in the 21st century, don't we? Surely there are data mining computers and computer systems that allow data to be automatically examined for suspicious patterns? In this way, it is perfectly possible to indicate which matters need further investigation and then it is up to the employees to do that research. In 2020, the Court of Auditors published a report from which I quote recommendation 14: "Research the use of artificial intelligence to automate risk analysis." Mr. Secretary, I know I don't look like this, but deep down in me, there's some sort of Robin Hood. I'm allergic to cheating and fraud. It stimulates my sense of justice and makes me competitive. Mr. Secretary, come on.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u40	Mr. Vanbesien, rather a Robin Hood than a knight, isn't it? Colleagues, tax fraud is indeed undermining society. It's a jaw blow for anyone who pays his taxes in a proper way. That is why we are also investing in this fight against tax fraud. Together with Mr Van Peteghem, I have set up the action plan against tax fraud, with a new instrument, namely the MOTEM, the multidisciplinary investigation teams, which did not yet exist for tax fraud. Police and the Justice Department are working together on this. That was a taboo for a long time, but that's what we're gonna do. We are also investing in the justice system. Last year, we decided, as colleagues from the Justice Committee know, to appoint 60 additional people to the tax offices and the tax courts. That investment didn't happen before. That is why Mr Verlinden and I made a decision last week concerning the federal judicial police. Mr Demon, remember the discussion in committee. With the FGPs there will be 195 additional investigators, 40 of them for the MOTEM. That is proof that this government is taking tax fraud seriously. Why do we do that? We do so because it is unacceptable that fraud should be allowed to lapse because there is not enough people in the police and the judiciary. I spent the week with a tax top magistrate, a parquet magistraat. I was impressed by the things he's doing, and he was also pleased with the efforts this government is making to strengthen its teams. His team provides the treasury with tens of millions of euros per year. I'm only talking about his team then. By the way, do you know there are dozens of candidates for every vacancy he has at the parquet? In other words, people have a desire to work there. It might also say something about the atmosphere that hangs in that parquet. Let it be an inspiration to everyone in justice. Mr Vanbesien, Robin Hood, he also said that the justice system should focus on the large files, so that they do not lapse, and that the other fraud cases should also be dealt with, but then by the tax authorities. That's what all the experts say, by the way. It is in this way that I want to implement this European directive as soon as possible. Why do I want to do this transformation in a thoughtful way? If we do not do this properly, we will find ourselves in unworkable situations. Suppose we do this unthinkingly, then a bank that literally receives 1 euro cash from anyone who has to report it as suspicious as possible, otherwise it risks prosecution. That will lead to a tsunami of notifications. These reports are not a problem for me, because it is the tax authority that has to solve them and not the judiciary. The philosophy that we apply to the una via-approach, ladies and gentlemen, is that ordinary fraud is for the tax authorities and serious fraud for the judiciary. So I say quite clearly that any form of fraud in our country must be dealt with. That's why we invest in the justice system, in the police and in the IRS. However, we need to do this in a smart and well-thought-out way. That's my plea. Together with the government, I will implement this directive as soon as possible. I assure you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u41	Minister, it is good that you have listed the measures again. There is, of course, a clear line behind that. That is why I have called on you to fully transpose the stricter European anti-money laundering rules into Belgian law as soon as possible. They are very important, ladies and gentlemen. If we say that tax fraud is a crime, I expect the Minister of Justice to deal with these crimes, together with all those responsible for it. You may do that thoughtfully, but I would like to ask you to do so quickly. After all, ladies and gentlemen, we are already a year and a half late. The fight against tax fraud does not wait. Everyone's share is nothing too much, Minister. That goes for fraudsters, but also for the Justice Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u42	Mr. Commander, thank you for your answer. Mr Vandenbroucke knows what I will say now. I shall now say something I have said to your colleague Van Peteghem several times in the same debate. I'll keep repeating it as long as it takes:I want my money back. Any small fraud that is not prosecuted and is allowed to go quietly, will make sure that all good Belgians have to pay more taxes. That's not fair and it's not fair. Stepping up the fight against tax fraud with more resources and more people are in the coalition agreement. It's an important promise you're making, too. You've explained it and you've done it. However, attention must not be weakened. We expect strong signals and powerful deeds. We keep expecting them, too. We do not expect it effectively in an ill-thought-out way, and I am sure that you can take care of it in a well thought-out way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u43	Of course, Minister, you cannot go into a specific case; I will not ask you to do so. Unfortunately, however, this is not a single case at all. It is a question of suspending the sentence for a person who has been guilty of watching and, therefore, clearly cooperating in child abuse, without being followed up, while the person admits that he has paedophile feelings. That sounds insane in itself, but it isn't. It still isn't today. It's still happening. The facts have been proven, but nothing follows: no treatment plan, no ban on working with children, no ban on starting orphanages abroad with children who certainly cannot open their mouths, no ban on running gyms and especially no information flow, to nothing or nobody. You will argue that since 2013 information can flow to employers and to the order. However, it is not happening. After all, today the same man was arrested for new facts. In a study and from a precautionary principle, information should have been provided long ago, not just to the issue but to many more organisations and to the people who are "exhibiting" their children at the moment. That's not gonna happen. The perpetrators are protected. The victims may continue to fall. I've been here so many times over the last seven years arguing for what we need. The law on professional secrecy must be reformed; the flow of information to all who can protect children is mandatory; a treatment plan must be imposed; follow-up is needed It is about so much more than what I have said here twenty thousand times. Justice fails and continues to fail among you, Minister. When will you finally take the problem seriously?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u44	Minister, I am not in favour of a witch hunt, nor are you. We are in favour of severe penalties, but it is not always best for the safety of our society if we put everyone away for a very long time. You feel a "but" coming and here it is. That someone who has been known for twenty years to have an unhealthy interest in having sex with children and in whom twenty years ago a picture of sexual abuse of children was found is what child pornography is, without follow-up, without treatment, as Mr Van Peel says, can work daily with children, in a vulnerable position - take off your clothes! If I could open an extra candy store by becoming a coach of a gym with young people, that would make me fall off my chair if I sat on it. A Minister of Justice is getting out of his head! There is also an aspect of the issue for the Minister for Health. We should not talk about a specific individual matter, but the role of the Order of Medicine in the matter raises questions. Or should I say abandoning any role, because the order has been silent and has done nothing at all. This is about our children, the most vulnerable and dearest thing we have. I will not talk about the past, because then it is about the individual dossier. My questions are about the now. If something like this happens, how else will the Justice Department handle it? Is there an exchange with professional associations, school boards and sports boards, so that they are informed about it and someone who cannot stay away from children is at least being watched?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the indignation on this matter is, of course, understandable. That a pediatrician is accused of such facts leaves no one untouched. I can tell you that in dealing with child sexual abuse, justice leaves nothing to chance. That approach is completely different than it was 20 years ago. There's a much more decisive search policy with a specialized Child Abuse cell in the federal police force today. Justice has an excellent collaboration with Child Focus, an absolute reference in Europe. That's why we invest with more people and more resources in the most advanced tools to detect large-scale images of child abuse. Parliament approved the new sexual criminal law, which could lead to penalties, especially in the case of child abuse, of up to 28 years in prison. That is what the government has done. I cannot comment on the details of the investigation. However, I can say that the Justice Department does what it has to do in the case, in particular to bring out the truth completely. Since 2014, there have been strict rules on how Justice should share information with professional groups. Those rules didn't exist 20 years ago. The Justice Department followed those rules. The court in Bruges is today conducting an investigation into "property of child pornography and voyeurism by admission, with the aggravating circumstance that the defendant is a doctor," with which I quote the charge. That investigation is being carried out thoroughly. After all, when the court was informed of the discovery of child abuse images, it immediately requested a investigating judge. That led to the arrest and arrest of the defendant. Mrs van Peel, you say that measures must be taken. I suggest that the Justice Department works as it should. This means that we are first looking at whether the person is convicted, because that is how a rule of law works, and that measures are then taken, including for the follow-up and supervision of such sex offenders, for which we have already adopted measures. Furthermore, before the arrest, the court informed the Order of Doctors of the facts so that the order as a disciplinary body would do what it should do. Justice has taken on its responsibilities. The man's in custody. We continue the investigation, starting with identifying the victims. The public prosecutor has informed us that the parents concerned will be informed of this. The cover's busy. We take sexual abuse much more seriously today than 20 years ago, ladies and gentlemen. We are taking more decisive action today. We're protecting the victims today. But decisive action, quick action and protection of victims, I also expect from the Order of Doctors.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u46	As long as you can shift facts to another, Minister. The Order of Doctors has not been informed of the facts. The gym hasn't been notified. The orphanage in India has not been notified. Your fantastic Justice has managed to bring only 0.5 percent of the perpetrators to justice today. 0.5 %! And under no circumstances does she succeed in preventing it, because you voted against Sophie De Wit's bill that wanted to make the posting of child abusers mandatory and that wanted to make the follow-up mandatory to ensure that no new victims were killed. Words, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u47	I have other information. I understand the order had been briefed. But of course, I'm not from court. In any case, Minister, I welcome your statement that there will be more transparency and that there will be communication from now on. It is clear that there is the key to the solution. I'll tell you a difficult truth. There's a difference between pedophiles and pedophiles. Pedophiles are attracted to children. Pedosexuals do the deed. Not all paedophiles take action. So it's hard to say they're all going to prison for life. But the least we can do - and I agree with Mrs Van Peel - is keep an eye on them, follow them, treat them, force them to succeed. I hope you will take that to heart, in the name of our children, in the name of our grandchildren. The whole population will thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u48	Minister, 14 drug-related shootings have taken place in the Brussels Region since last September. We must be clear: drug traffickers are taking power in Brussels, as they already took in Antwerp yesterday. It is unbearable and I believe that the whole political class must face a real awareness. The mayor of Molenbeek has been calling the federal for months. Let us avoid barren and mediocre quarrels here, even if there is always a share of local responsibility! Mrs. Moureaux is not the only one complaining. The reality is that no local police force in Brussels is now armed enough to deal with the stakes that we have before us, that is, a multi-faceted drug trafficking, which does not just concern aspects of public order. The Sky file tells us how much other issues such as polycriminality and work on encrypted networks are involved. We need to learn from it, and invest in a much more targeted way in the neighbourhoods facing this gangrene. It must be noted that in the Brussels Region, despite some of your good intentions repeated here, nothing moves, or so little. When will the federal government finally take on its responsibilities and provide specific and targeted assistance in neighbourhoods where drugs take precedence over public safety and tranquillity? You were supposed to meet the mayor of Molenbeek today. What concrete answers and prospects have you given and can you give to the other mayors and to all the inhabitants of this city so that Brussels, tomorrow, is not a new laboratory for drug traffickers and those who exploit the suffering people?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u49	Madam President, Madam Minister, my colleague wanted to focus on the problem in Brussels. I allow myself to dezoomize because the alarm cry that has been uttered, for months, by the judicial authorities of this country, the highest magistrates, is not limited to the territory of the capital. We've had disastrous events with grenades on Antwerp. That has been mentioned. But everywhere else in the territory, in the big cities, to be also the modest mayor of one of them, there is a clear resurgence on the ground of the drug trafficking of gangs organized with a judicial power which is lagging behind and which does not have the means to be able to limit the phenomenon. There is regular use of the police, which is insufficient, although at the level of local police, but even more so at the level of the federal framework. I do not make this a grievance to you, minister, because this shortage of federal and police officers in general comes first from the drying up that the previous government has made with Minister Jambon in charge of the interior. But today we are seeing the consequences on the ground with recruitment difficulties, even when posts are opened. The magistrates sounded the alarm that, for the first time, publicly, it was their duty to recognize that the state was gradually beginning to be gangred by the mafia. Is the scope of this announcement measured, especially in the light of who makes it? They requested EUR 120 million in cumulative investment over the next three years. You've cleared 30 of them. The mayor of Molenbeek mentioned a need for reinforcements; you released 20 policemen temporarily. It's too little! But, more broadly, across the country, for all these major cities where crime is concentrated, what initiatives will you undertake?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u50	Minister, the escalation of violence continues in a number of neighbourhoods. This violence is increasingly taking the form of shootings in public space. I have already asked you several times about this subject, in particular about the series of shootings that took place in two months in the Brussels Region, especially in Molenbeek. In a few days, we witnessed two shootings in the northwest of Brussels. As a policeman's memory, there has never been such a repetition of events of this nature, and the situation continues to deteriorate. Minister, I know these neighbourhoods and their specificities well, but I also know their difficulties. I believe that we must have the courage to recognize that they are gangregnized by structured or even deep-rooted crime. These neighbourhoods require strong police action: surveillance, control and prevention. Experiencedly, I can say that it's not by playing institutional ping-pong that we're going to win against big crime. These neighbourhoods deserve attention at all levels: federal, regional and communal. Minister, in your orientation statement, you indicated that you wanted to follow the situation in order to support the work to be carried out at Brussels level and you met with the Molenbeek authorities. What are you going to do to deal with this form of high crime? What joint actions are being carried out between the local areas and the PJF? What about the cooperation put in place to ensure effective and effective work on all levels: communal, regional and federal?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u51	Minister, a few weeks ago, the College of Attorneys General, in the voice of its President, Mr. de la Serna, told us: "The Mafia is taking power in our country." And indeed, mafia organizations have declared war on us. Extortion, corruption, pressure, settlement of accounts: the list is long. There are mafias, there are organized gangs, which are now in the drug trade, bloody. We know the chain. Drug trafficking-money, money-weapons, weapons-accounting. We know the facts. But now we need a reaction to the height. Your statements, Madam Minister, are worrying; when, in response to mayors in charge of police areas in Brussels or elsewhere in the country who ask you for additional resources, you refer to an administrative procedure whereby it is up to the chiefs of corps to ask for reinforcements from the dirco, a senior. But we know the answer: the dirco will do according to what it has. No, minister, we need a political reaction at the highest level of the state. We need clear actions. We need human and logistical reinforcements. It took several weeks for you to finally meet the mayor of Molenbeek. You met her. It came with concrete demands in terms of human and material reinforcements, in terms of the sustainability of the Canal plan. Madam Minister, what are your intentions today, because in order to reduce this scourge, we need a political reaction at the highest level of the state? It is also your responsibility!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u52	Madam Secretary, 12 shootings in a few months, mostly related to drug crime. The inhabitants of Molenbeek are afraid to get out. It's like the community of a thousand bombs and grenades. Of course you will be looked at for the solution. As always, to the Home Secretary again. He'll have to take care of it again. More policemen, more money, but perhaps we should also look at certain politicians who should put their hands into their own hands. At the beginning of this legislature, the Mayor of Saint-Jans-Molenbeek, Mrs Moureaux, was still opposed to the Channel Plan. Basically, the plan was worthless. More policemen weren't necessary at the time. Humanity would solve all the problems. We see where we stand with that today. Also, the merger of the six Brussels police zones and the economies of scale that would result from them should not be discussed out loud today. Nor does it solve the problems by simply sending policemen out onto the streets. Combating violence starts with preventing people from being sent to crime. We must dare to name fundamental problems, in Molenbeek and sometimes in other parts of Brussels. Youth unemployment in Brussels is rising. Integration, only since this month mandatory, while the system has been in place in Flanders for twenty years. There is still a profit to be made in terms of prevention. Madam Secretary, each is responsible. The local police must in the first instance (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u53	Madam Minister, new shots were fired at Molenbeek just a few days ago in the Brussels West police area. It was the fourteenth shooting. This is the record we have today in this part of Brussels. Madam Minister, on behalf of my group, I would like to remind you of the extent to which I clearly condemn this violence, and of the extent to which I share the concerns and fears of the residents of the neighbourhood, but also of the Brussels people throughout the territory of our capital. On the other hand, I would like to remind some colleagues that crime in Molenbeek has been down 13% since 2016. We are witnessing today what the College of Attorneys General reminded us a few weeks ago: a change in crime with a specialisation in organized crime linked to drugs. And that's where we have to fight. Minister, my questions are very simple. Have you met with regional and police authorities? I know you met the mayor this morning. I'd like to know what came out of that interview. Then, what answers can we collectively bring to this typical and symptomatic problem of the big cities of our country? What support can we provide not only to our local police but also to our communal authorities? How can we provide a more structural response to this problem, which is in fact linked to the financing and lack of refinancing of our local police areas, which every day seems to be getting worse? A preventive arsenal is probably necessary, with a strengthening of the local police force, which I strongly believe. We also need a pivotal role for our neighbourhood agents. It was also in your general policy note. That is why I believe that this is the keystone of one of the solutions that we must bring about in the months and years to come with regard to our country's security policy. How does this materialise today in the policy you want to pursue in the coming weeks and months? Finally, what reinforcements do you intend to put at the service of Brussels in general and in Molenbeek in particular, but especially in all local police areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, drugs are not a new phenomenon. Like many of you, and beyond this hemisphere, I am awake from that. That is one of the reasons why this has been included as a priority in the National Security Plan. Yes, I accept my responsibility to combat this problem, but we cannot do this alone. It's a shared responsibility. I call on everyone to accept part of that responsibility. What I've done is amplify the recruitment so we can have more people on the street. Today, the Brussels-West police zone is running out of nearly 200 people. We take care of recruitment so that they can strengthen that framework and follow it along. Whatever I do is strengthen the FGP. That's what we've been through several times. We made that decision last week. It is essential to strengthen the FGP, especially in Brussels, in order to be able to carry out these activities. One of the elements in which I believe very strongly is international cooperation. That is also the reason why we are placing an international liaison officer in Colombia to ensure that we address and map the problem at source. I think we need a common approach. Only building the capacity of the federal police without an approach plan with all relevant actors is not the goal and will not bring any relief. We really need a focused and integrated chain approach. It's not about turning the ball away, it's about taking responsibility at all levels. Thus, justice must ensure more stringent prosecution, the prevention services of the municipalities must make maximum use of prevention and the Region must use its expertise for a comprehensive approach. I also call on my colleagues in charge of the fight against poverty and the policy of big cities to deploy all the instruments of the chain approach because I too take my responsibilities. I did have a meeting with the mayor this morning. We have discussed the issue and she has asked me for further reinforcement by the federal police. Today 52 federal agents are already being deployed in the various zones under the Channel Plan. In the context of this urgent question and pending the completion of the framework of the zone, I would like to look at how we can achieve this strengthening. However, what I also think is particularly important is that we ensure that the 6,000 police officers working in Brussels work together in the best possible way. For me, Mr Demon has referred to this, and there is no taboo. The merger of police zones in Brussels is a point which is not included in the government agreement, but which may be a solution for my party. In any case, we must go for a thorough cooperation. We must ensure that the 6,000 local police officers in Brussels are properly deployed. A very important addition to this is the responsibility of the Prime Minister, who, as a result of the latest state reform, already has a coordinating role in relation to municipal cross-border events and has to ensure unity of command. I have a draft law that I will put on the government's table to further clarify the powers of the Prime Minister, because it is a problem that goes beyond a police zone and in which everyone has to take responsibility. Finally, and I want to emphasize this, I want to give more authority and weight to the fight against crime through the administrative approach bill. I strongly believe that we need to invest in this project. This project is currently being studied by the government, but in my view it can also help combat these forms of crime, close fraudulent companies that infiltrate the regular economy to launder the profits of organized crime. I therefore count on all the parties that have manifested themselves here in Parliament and which are advocating for a stricter approach to drug-related crime, to cooperate and support these initiatives. We must not let this drug crime take over. We must hold on to Brussels, we do not let go of any city or any municipality in that struggle. I call on all the actors involved within their responsibility to do the same. It must not be limited to looking at others, because the federal police cannot solve that alone. I'll get reinforcements, but in order to make it against organised crime, we need to work together.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u55	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. You're right to say that you're not the only one responsible. It's true in time. As others have said, we always do away with the serious cuts made by the former government in the police force. This is also true in space. I also called for us not to lend ourselves to small political games between power levels. However, what is worrying here and what we learn from the repetition of these acts is that we are facing a problem of rooting. As the examples abroad show, once drug traffickers have taken control of a territory, it is extremely difficult to extract them. I therefore stress the urgency of the struggle that you call your wishes in a coordinated manner. It must concern not only the local police, the federal judicial police, but also everything that enables these drug traffickers to function, such as the encryption of telephones. We no longer have time to wait, hoping that it is not already too late. We have a real war ahead of us against an extremely organized mafia, which requires overcoming each other's small games.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u56	Minister, the challenge is immense and your answer is disappointing. You wished to recall that each level of power had its place and that it was also necessary to work on prevention. Of course, but it is not the possible additional neighbourhood educators who will be able to be bulwarks against the mafia. At the most, they will be able to act upstream on the issue of reducing consumers. This should not be overlooked because at the local level it is a real social nuisance and a real public health challenge. However, the only level of power that is competent for the judicial police is the federal. The only level of authority that is competent for prosecutors is the federal. The only level of authority that is competent to finance local police areas or the federal police is the federal. Please, act at your level, in concert with your Justice colleague! You are not the only competency holder in the federal government. But it is at this level that the answers must be brought quickly and massively, before it is too late.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u57	Minister, I thank you for your concrete answers and for the timely link you have made to the administrative approach bill that can indeed serve very useful purposes. I repeat, as soon as you took office, you had pointed out the need for a strong action at the level of the Brussels Region. I believe it is essential that public authorities stick together. I believe that it is essential that no one should take responsibility – I say none. It is also true that political will is also at stake and that raising your arms in heaven or showing laxity has never helped to win against crime. On the contrary, it makes her prosper. I hope, Madam Minister, that collaboration will be strong and good, because everyone must be able to regain the quality of life to which they can claim.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u58	Madam Minister, first of all, a little word about Mr Demon's rather staggering speech. It is as if the mayor of Antwerp was responsible for the fact that the port of Antwerp is a straitjacket for drug trafficking. It is as if the mayor of Antwerp was responsible for the firing of grenades and the use of weapons of war. No, Mr. Demon, the problem is elsewhere! The problem lies in the political will that our state, at the highest level, has or does not have to fight against drug traffickers, against the mafias, against rooting out the expression used earlier. That is what we need, professionalism and not getting lost in the way of administrative coordination! Of course, it is important, but what we need are police means, investigators, logistical means to deal with people who have more and more money and operational capabilities. It must be done quickly because it is a race against the clock with people who die every day! That is what we need, not childishness and polemics! [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u59	Madam Minister, thank you for your outstretched hand to the people around Brussels and to the mayor of Molenbeek. However, with a soft policy alone, we will not get there. Soft healers make stinky wounds. Let us try to tackle the problems, for example on all the opinions that are already there, on the fusion and cooperation of police zones. This is systematically obstructed. I hope Prime Minister Vervoort will assume his responsibilities and work on cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u60	Minister, thank you for your answers and your concrete leads. I would still like to remind you that the first victims, of what we've been talking about for about 20 minutes, are the Molenbeeks. And I think they have to ask themselves a lot of questions, given the show they're attending. The urgency of bringing together our forces to win this fight and to give our police and justice the means of our political ambitions is no longer to be demonstrated. I would just like to point out in conclusion that today it is time to act upstream. Let's focus on prevention! Let's give our local police the resources they need! Let's give our social actors in these neighbourhoods the means to build a link, to build a link between the police and young people! Let us not fall into an ultra-security and repressive discourse that does not bring any solution to what is at stake today!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u61	Madam Minister, I am sorry to have to address myself to the Minister responsible for this issue. While the shootings in Molenbeek escalate, we also experience problems in Flanders, namely in our recreational parks, for example the Silver Lake in Mol, De Nekker in Mechelen and of course also the Blaarmeersen in Ghent. These problems are caused by a cat, let's call it a cat, immigrant young people who fall from Brussels to there. It is about barbarism, harassing families, vandalism, fighting and the torture of a carp in the Blaarmeersen. De Blaarmeersen remains the biggest worry child, because every year the same phenomena come back. There are a number of problems there, Madam Minister, such as a shortage of security personnel, a shortage of policemen, a shortage of rescuers, a malfunctioning identity control system and fences around the domain that can be bypassed. Is this new? Absolutely not! It's the same problem as last year. You then replied to my question that it would first be preventively sensitising and then repressively acting with a letter. This would allow gas fines to be issued and the mayors could impose a place ban, including the prohibition imposed in the General National Data Bank. A year after these facts, I note that we are still facing the same problems. What will you do to make our families relax safely in our recreational parks?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u62	Madam Secretary, summer has started, temperatures are rising and people are looking for relaxation and relaxation. People go to the recreational areas and to the coast. Everyone is welcome in all recreational areas, but we find that some young people from the interior do not always come with the right intentions. They're not here for the refreshment, they're here to make amok. This means that people in their own region no longer dare to go to the coast or the recreational areas, for example to the beautiful Blaarmeersen. That is a wonderful initiative, but after last weekend's amok we can no longer sunbathe with 10,000 people, but only with 4,500, because there were young people who had to make amok. We in Bruges also look at the construction of an additional recreation area. However, one would be afraid to use it as a city. The letter you sent last year to combat the nuisance in the recreational areas was a very good start. Mayors were finally able to impose a temporary restraining order on amokmakers. It was the first year in which that was possible. However, we must be honest; this does not appear to be enough. If rioters have a restraining order in one domain, they go to another. We have to take an example from the football law. If you amok in one stadium, you can get a ban on all stadiums in Belgium. I suggest that anyone who makes two amoks in the recreational zones should be put on an amok list.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u63	Madam Minister, we can set the clock on it, because every year at the first rays of sunshine, the multicultural elite of revolving door criminals comes down from Molenbeek, Kuregem, Schaerbeek and consorts to the Flemish country. For example, they come to De Nekker, the Blaarmemeersen and Hoogstraten. They don't stop there, because they also go to the coast. That is why I am standing here, because from 1 July we can expect them on the coast. There they have a parasol fight in Blankenberge or a fake drowning, so the rescue helicopters fly out for nothing. It doesn't stop there either, because - you can already see it coming - the train is being molested, they are walking on the tracks and so on. Such facts are not new. This phenomenon has been going on for more than twenty years, because even in the 1990s the scum of the ledge was already working. However, because of our multicultural tolerance, we dare not do anything about it. Nothing is being done about it today. However, the operators are punished, because the domains may only allow visitors for half their capacity. Cafeterias have to close, so that the good people can't even drink beer anymore, because that's all too dangerous. In this way, the victims will be punished. The unsubs are all known to the police. That street crap, with excuses for the use of words, is known to the police, because most of them have a criminal record bigger than The Last News. Madam Secretary, you're not actually doing anything. In 2020, our colleague Koen Metsu tabled a resolution that was approved by all of you in order to do something about it. This proposal includes, for example, the establishment of a place ban and the creation of a database. They just wanted to say that we can't do it anymore. A database can be consulted by the local police, either in Mechelen, in the Blaarmeersen, or in Middelkerke, where we may once also build a recreation area. Madam Minister, you yourself admitted in 2020 that this is a problem. You've been a minister for two years. Get on with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u64	Colleagues, of course such incidents cannot be tolerated, first and foremost for all the families and friends who want to use the recreational areas. We have already taken initiatives during legislative time, Mr Dedecker. For example, we have drawn up a circular with preventive and repressive measures in consultation with the operators and local authorities. As agreed, we evaluated its application a few weeks ago through a survey of the operators and local authorities. This has shown that they know the letter and assess it positively, as it provides instruments to enable them to work effectively. On the one hand, there are the preventive instruments. One can work with a capacity limitation or with a reservation system for fewer visitors. That may be regrettable, Mr Demon, but it has taught us that there are fewer incidents in the event of a capacity reduction. On the other hand, this is equally important - repressive measures are possible. These include, first of all, a ban on entry. Sometimes such concepts are tricked a bit, but the ban on access can be imposed on operators against ammo makers, which will prevent them from accessing the recreation area next time. However, we note that not every recreation area works with an access control. Moreover, it is not legally possible for personal data to be shared between the recreational parks. Mr Dedecker, I remember some of your statements on the protection of privacy and personal data when it came to corona. The same rules ensure that all such data cannot be shared. That's what we're finding out. Secondly, there's the mayor's restraining order. We have done all we can to ensure that the government does not sit still so that the place ban is recorded in the central police database, so that an identity check can be much easier to verify if someone is subject to it. Thirdly, we can, of course, work with a gas fine. Furthermore, we are in the process of adapting the GAS regulation in order to increase the penalties for nuisance and make it easier to apply to local authorities. I would also, of course, urge the Justice Department to act quickly and appropriately against the ammo makers if they commit criminal offences. I must say, Mr Dedecker, that the language you use does not contribute to finding a solution to the problem. Popular statements that "the crap from Brussels" takes the train to Ghent and then to the coast to take care of amok do not help the cause. The problem is much more complex than you think. As I said before, we need to approach the file from a broader perspective. Young people, young families, everyone has the right to recreation. I therefore ask that all local authorities, but also all colleagues in all governments, federal and regional, take their responsibility and ensure sufficient recreation and relaxation on the ground. People will move because there are not enough relaxation and recreation opportunities in their neighbourhood. We can't overlook that. Finally, a parallel is drawn with the stadium ban. Let me be clear: such a stadium ban is introduced in a very different way. First of all, there is the agreement that the Football Cell or the FPS Interior Department will issue such a stadium ban. It is therefore immediately clear that this applies to stadiums. Can we apply something like this to the recreational areas and areas? I would like to, but if I asked you for a list, it would be very difficult to map them. That's a first difference. In addition, one cannot simply apply a similar system for the prohibition of access to recreational areas, if only because not every recreational area has a fence or access control. I am convinced, however, that if we maximise the current instruments, namely the GAS fines, the mayor's ban on places and the ban on access to recreational domain managers, we will give an important part of the answer. Here too, we must work together with others. We have just found that cooperation between the police and SNCB young people who arrived in Brussels after a visit to Ghent were immediately available for questioning and that the necessary measures were taken immediately. So we need to look more broadly than just the police. It goes without saying that I will give all possible support so that we can have a pleasant summer, with as few incidents as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u65	Madam Secretary, don't put your head in the sand. Name the problems as they are. They are mainly immigrant young people from Brussels who go down to our recreational areas and make the environment unsafe for our families. Please start with that already. The Flemish Interest proposes a second knock-out plan against those aggressive. Get a restraining order that's being applied. Ensure effective punishment through rapid justice. Provide preventive screenings at the departure and terminal stations. Ensure sufficient permanent security in the recreational areas. Get me surveillance. The time for pampering must be over. Call in mayors and, if necessary, the governors to take the necessary measures. We demand the restoration of law and order, so that our families can relax in our recreational areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u66	Madam Secretary, everyone is welcome on the coast. Everyone is welcome in all recreational areas. However, those who make ammo must be excluded. We must work together, as you yourself have pointed out, with SNCB and with all the authorities. There's got to be quick justice. Let those youngsters or others make them amok, but quickly prevent them. See with the Minister of Justice what's possible. Perhaps we should take the good example of the work of the soccer cell at Home Affairs to see what practical difficulties we need to overcome, so that those who make amok in a recreational area, albeit the larger recreational areas, no longer have access to all other recreational areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u67	Madam Secretary, along with other law enforcement officers, I've had enough of your itching words and look-away behavior. In Brussels, the pool FLOW is faced with the same problem. Johan Cruijff created another football field in 2018. The next day it was broken down, Madam Secretary! Then we must indeed go to Flanders to set things right there. Rapid justice has been in place since 2001, ladies and gentlemen. I've still approved it in the Chamber. What have you done with it, Madam Secretary? You didn't do anything with it! In football there is a stadium ban. Is it so difficult to set up a database for six or seven recreational areas? That has nothing to do with privacy. It has nothing to do with the fight against crime, and you are failing in that. I'm a coastal mayor, Madam Secretary. You know very well what this is about. We're not getting help because you don't have people. There's no training of cops. I've already talked about it here. We ask for additional reinforcements in the summer for the Blankenberg parasol throwers, but we do not get them, because your policy is not right.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u68	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the pressure on gas supplies in Europe is increasing. We may be less dependent on Russia, but that does not mean that we will feel the effects less, because European solidarity will also make us feel them. More and more countries are taking action and keeping their contingency plans under review. That's what happens to us. You have confirmed that companies can be shut down or will receive less gas. It's about 200 companies. There's something to ask about that. The industry has already indicated that this is very difficult to work in some areas, because if gas supply is reduced to certain companies, it will have to close down completely for safety reasons. At the same time, there is a very high imbalance, because as many as 80% of these companies are based in Flanders. That's a manifest imbalance. What will then happen, if they close, with the economic damage, which will end up in Flanders? The effect on employees also ends up in Flanders. Then who's gonna bear those costs? Who's gonna pay for that story? Madam Minister, you are conducting a survey of the sector today to see how you can refine these matters, but you have already indicated to me that it is not your intention to do anything about this imbalance. Where are you going? Shouldn't you be changing the rifle shoulder? Should you not ensure that you draw up a plan aimed at reducing the economic damage, reducing the effects on employees and the like, and then, at the same time, tackle that huge imbalance? Madam Minister, it is clear that we must move forward with this dossier, and we must not drive an economic graveyard after this huge energy crisis, because that does not make anyone any better. Madam Secretary, how do you intend to deal with this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u69	Mr Wollants, thank you for your questions, but as usual, a lot was thrown into your question again. First of all, I will answer your last question, which is how I will deal with this dossier. As I approach all my files: based on facts, based on figures and based on consultation. At a time when we are experiencing a very large energy crisis in Europe and in our country, that is the only approach that works. With the safety first and with the protection of our families and companies first. But let's go back in time. Why are the questions coming today? The questions are extremely valid today. Germany has announced that it will be in the next phase of its emergency plan. Why? Because Germany wants to go into winter with maximum preparation. Germany wants to be able to save the gas to the maximum in order to be able to send its supplies. We are in favour of this. Today we export to Germany at maximum capacity. 3.5 times the Belgian consumption is exported to those countries that are struggling today, Germany and the Netherlands. In the meantime, we are indeed refining our own emergency plan, which provides that families will be able to warm their homes at any time and that safety is guaranteed at all times. I answered your question in committee. For this we have indeed started a survey with our industry, to be able to work tailor-made and to have the right and the best data. Because undoubtedly there are companies that can do more, that can do faster. It is to those questions that we want an exact answer, so that we can activate our emergency plan when we need it. By winter, we want this refined so that we can work tailor-made. In the end, we can protect ourselves as much as possible in a period of great uncertainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u70	Madam Minister, we have, of course, become more vulnerable because a number of countries in Europe have chosen to shut down their nuclear power stations massively and to use additional natural gas. That's made it harder. The economic damage that is coming and you need to look at does not seem to want to take you into the exercise. You have not said how these things will be reimbursed, nor why you focus solely on the volumes of natural gas and not on the activity. At the end of the journey, the entire government's budget is based on what people put on the table through that activity. With what comes in like this, we have to get to work. It would be the biggest mistake you can make if you hit those companies the hardest. I would therefore ask you to be reasonable so that we can come to terms with it. We fit for an economic cemetery.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u71	This concludes our oral question-and-answer session.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u72	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Gitta Vanpeborgh, Hervé Rigot, Daniel Bacquelaine, Laurence H annoyée, Nathalie Muylle, Robby De Caluwé, Barbara Creemers. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2259/5) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2259/5) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u73	The reporter, Ms. Dominiek Sneppe, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the intentions of Mr Vanpeborgh's motion for a resolution on COPD's approach are very good. COPD is a very serious and debilitating condition. It can often be prevented, as it is very often linked to smoking, to the number of pack years of a patient. The problem of particulate matter has been added to the original proposal for a resolution. In our group's view, it is certainly commendable that this issue should be addressed and addressed, but, as with the proposals for a resolution tabled in the Committee on Health, Vivaldi flirts with the powers of state. That is a very sensitive point for our group. As you know, we are firmly convinced that it is absolutely necessary to transfer the competence for health care, where we combine prevention, curation and aftercare at one level. We consider the Butterfly Agreement and the agreements made by the parties to it to be a mess, but there is no point in messing around and gradually looking at these powers of state and making everything even more chaotic with proposals for resolution. That is the greatest remark of my group on this motion for a resolution. We call on the majority to work on the coalition agreement. It says quite literally that people will work on regionalising the competence of Health. Then do so, much rather than make step-by-step small impact proposals that work on the preventive part. However, colleagues, COPD is a focus. The diagnosis is often late and it is incurable. There are medications that can provide relief, but the loss of quality of life is often very high and we need to address this as best we can. We are absolutely in favour of the multidisciplinary approach proposed in the motion for a resolution. We also fully agree with the inclusion of discussions on the proper use of medicines in the home pharmacist. When screening, however, I do see a certain contradiction between what is contained in the motion for a resolution and the opinion of the pneumologists. The pneumologists clearly state that there is no evidence that there will be a reduction in mortality or hospital intakes with a general screening. If we're gonna screen, we're gonna have to do that in a targeted way. We need risk protocols to accompany the screening. I would also like to make a small comment on the request that the general practitioners monitor the covid vaccination status of COPD patients. Colleague, you just had a one-two with the Minister of Health about filling in the general practitioner's profession. Generals screen their patients for covid vaccination status. They're definitely working on that. I think this seems a little patronizing. So it wasn't really necessary to record that. To sum up, we agree that we need to tackle the problem. Stronger commitment to an earlier diagnosis, totally agreed. A multidisciplinary partnership, totally agreed. Taking the family doctor and the house pharmacist on that very important journey, also to a smoke stop, is certainly a work point. It is a pity that our amendment on endobronchial valves, which may be a solution for a number of patients, has not been accepted. That wasn't taken on the advice of one doctor. We, too, had asked for opinions and they were positive. I think we should come back to this later. I have one final comment to make. This is a proposal from the majority. The competent authorities, in particular the RIZIV, were not really waiting for this proposal. I believe that communication between the majority parties and the federal organisations is also essential for health policy. That policy is not working very smoothly, for the FPS Public Health, for example, still does not have a chairman. So maybe we can work on that communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my group attaches great importance to this unknown disease, which affects 800,000 Belgians today, with serious consequences for them. My group will obviously support this resolution, which I had the pleasure of co-signing. I thank Mrs Vanpeborgh for the work of consultation, because we have received many opinions which have enabled us to move forward. Through this motion for a resolution, we want to enable an effective and integral approach to COPD through awareness-raising and prevention. The goal of a tobacco-free generation, in which our government has committed itself, will obviously be essential in this context. We also want measures for early detection. The sooner we find out, the sooner we can take the actions that will help to avoid as long as possible the harmful and painful consequences of this disease through a greater involvement of the first line of care as well as strengthened follow-up, support and good treatment of patients. This reflection will have to be led by the Minister of Health in order to see to what extent we could increase the number of multidisciplinary centres for pulmonary revalidation throughout the country to the benefit of greater accessibility for affected patients. We will support this text and I thank my colleagues for the work done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u76	Madam President, this proposal seems to us important in many respects. First, because COPD is an extremely worrying condition. Studies show that 800,000 Belgians are affected by this disease, which is characterized by chronic permanent obstruction of the bronchial tract. Progress has been made in recent years in the management of this disease. In the 1980s, we were far from what is currently available. This problem must remain a concern, and we will therefore support this proposal, which we have co-signed. In this connection, I would like to highlight a number of aspects which we believe are essential and which have convinced us of the relevance of this motion for a resolution. COPD affects a great many people in our country and remains largely unknown, hence the importance of active COPD research. It needs to be diagnosed as soon as possible, with an essential role for the first line of care in this regard. It is indeed a disease that can be described as a silent disease at first. Symptoms often take time to appear; therefore, the preventive component is extremely important. I am thinking in particular of tobacco control and air quality. Let us also talk about industrial-type pollution and the exposure of some people to work, which they sometimes carry out in their own homes without thinking that they are exposed in a significant way and without knowing the risks! BCPO can become a daily burden for patients. Indeed, without adequate care, the quality of life of those affected is drastically reduced. This is indeed an extremely disabling condition. I am thinking in particular of the consequences it entails in everyday life. It is therefore a dangerous disease and, as the proposal points out, almost incurable. Early care is therefore essential. As such, it should be recalled that, at an advanced stage, respiratory failure caused by this condition can affect the heart and endanger the patient's life-threatening prognosis. As a result, BCPO is one of the leading causes of mortality in the world. According to the latest available WHO figures, it resulted in more than 3 million deaths in 2019. In the light of all this, the proposals made in the text before us today are, in our view, relevant. In particular, I would like to highlight the request to examine, in consultation with the actors in the first line of care, the possibility of providing for regular regular checks-up with the use of spirometry in general practitioners and/or pneumonologists for age categories at risk. In addition to this, we can also highlight the request to examine whether it would be possible to increase the number of multidisciplinary outpatient pulmonary revalidation centres in order to better distribute them throughout the territory. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of all this, the MR Group will support the motion for a resolution before you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u77	The PVDA-PTB Group will also support the motion for a resolution. It covers an important theme and puts the drip on the prevention of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, better known as COPD or smokers' lung. First, smoking was considered as the cause of the disease, but later more attention was paid to other causes, such as air quality. We think that is a good thing. We also think that the early detection of chronic pulmonary disease via spirometry is a good idea. Many people suffering from the disease become aware of this only when they develop severe bronchitis or are in respiratory distress. Then the disease is often already advanced, but even then it is still useful to stop smoking. The biggest cause of COPD is smoking. That is why we believe it is important to regard smoking as a collective problem. Takabstop programs are free in some circumstances, but that is not always the case. There is therefore still a considerable number of threshold to be removed. We think it is also important to invest in tools for general practitioners so that they can better guide their patients to stop smoking. There is also a need to invest in other first-line actors. It is also important to proactively vaccinate COPD patients against the flu and COVID-19. This is also mentioned in the motion for a resolution. There were good initiatives during the COOVID-19 vaccination campaign. The well-known lung patients were proactively first invited to be vaccinated through the registration system of the sickness funds and the general practitioners, as they constitute a risk group. I therefore regret that we are not continuing this good practice, because the vaccination centres are closing down. Unfortunately, no thought was given to the maintenance of that proactive structure and method of informing those at risk patients. However, this could have a positive impact on the vaccination rate. Our party wants to sustainably anchor the positive elements of the corona period in permanent preventive local initiatives. It's important to consider the cost of medication and the cost of puffers. Even if the maximum invoice applies, COPD patients who often need antibiotics, medicines that Mrs De Block put in category C instead of category B, will have to pay more for a therapy that they regularly need. I have already heard that some have therefore postponed their treatment. I would also like to point out that the inhalation chamber needed to take puffers properly... without inhalation chamber the medication is less efficient -, today is not refunded by the RIZIV. The room costs the patients 30 euros and that also has to be eliminated. Finally, I think it is positive that the text focuses on air quality. Smoking is not the only cause of COPD. Air quality is not only an ecological but also a social issue. People with lower incomes live more often in places with less air quality. For example, they are particularly vulnerable to the health effects of air pollution. A study by the VUB has also described this in detail. In poorer neighbourhoods the houses are of poor quality and there are narrow streets with a lot of traffic and little greenery. The neighborhood dwellers also often work in places with poor air quality. For example, they work as a bus driver, street sweeper or in industry. That is why we are asking to examine whether COPD can be recognised as an occupational disease. We will certainly support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the reason for this resolution was a catchy conversation that I had at the beginning of 2021 with the NGO COPD, the association that organises the COPD patients and defends their interests. In that conversation, they not only outlined their situation and their needs, but also expressed a cry for help in getting this serious, misunderstood and, above all, incurable disease out of the shadows. According to them, there has been far too little attention to this disease. That's a fair point. Despite the fact that this disease is hardly known in society, it affects no less than 800,000 Belgians and causes 3,500 deaths every year. The main cause of this disease is effective smoking, although not all smokers get COPD and also non-smokers can get COPD. After all, there are other possible causes, such as the inhaling of harmful dust particles for many years, such as miners, a shortage of certain proteins or repeated lung infections during childhood. This resolution therefore calls on the federal government, in cooperation and in consultation with the Länder, such as many resolutions, to promote greater awareness and an effective and comprehensive approach to this disease. The initial proposal on the table has been revised on the basis of opinions and the debate in committee. In addition to the high impact of smoking, the impact of environmental factors was effectively added in relation to awareness and prevention. With regard to screening and early detection, the search for appropriate age and risk-related screening was also highlighted. We have also sent in because of course it is good to know who needs to be screened when. This avoids unnecessary costs and investigations. With regard to follow-up and treatment, it was also stated that the need for care should be identified as quickly and as effectively as possible and that it should also be possible to investigate how the right care and funding can be provided. That way we try to think about the price tag. The added value of the good use of medicines and a conversation with the pharmacist was underlined. With regard to pulmonary rehabilitation, an additional budget of EUR 5 million was pointed out for the further development of the multidisciplinary centres for outpatient rehabilitation and using existing specialised rehabilitation institutions. There are also a number of elements of debate which I have certainly heard, but which were not included in the end. I think it is important to come back to that for a moment. That was, among other things, I am looking at Mrs Fonck's addition of even more concrete measures to achieve a smoke-free generation. I fully agree with that, but the anti-tobacco plan is on its way. We do have a discussion about the maximum facilitation and targeted use of endobronchial valves, but we will pick that up later. Providing a protocol for general practitioners and pneumologists is possible and important in a later phase, but let us first see who needs to be screened when. The possible funding of asthma COPD overlap syndrome, Mrs Rohonyi, was eventually not included, because there is still a lot of discussion about the definition and treatment of that double diagnosis. I will conclude, Madam President, with an important comment on my disappointment. On 7 June 2022, the motion for a resolution was adopted by all political groups in committee, with the exception of the N-VA that abstained. You have explained why, Mrs Depoorter, but I continue to regret it. In any case, the proposal does not seek to re-federalise health care. It was written as part of the sixth state reform. Two weeks ago, we adopted the resolution on the European Disability Card, in which there was as much overlap as in this motion for a resolution, but this was supported by the N-VA. So I continue to regret that, not for me, because my political ego is certainly not that big, but it is for the 800,000 patients, their relatives and caregivers. Finally, I would like to thank all those who contributed to the motion for a resolution. For me, this is not an end point, but a starting point. If a resolution is to be created, it must also be followed up and implemented. I will continue to do so as long as I am in Parliament and perhaps afterwards, and I hope that many will do so with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have no concern about what this text contains. We will support him. On the other hand, my message today will focus on what it does not contain. Lung bronchitis, chronic obstructive bronchopneumopathy (COPD), is still largely due to tobacco. Of course, your text includes a small point about the tobacco-free generation. But as far as the tobacco-free generation is concerned, all the work that is done by the associations in this direction is for the future. It's for the emerging generations. If there is one treatment - it is in fact the only one - that is potentially curative and which, very clearly, slows down the evolution of the disease, it is the cessation of tobacco. This is not mentioned in the guidelines. However, today we still fall short of what should be done in terms of accessibility for patients, both with respect to the reimbursement of nicotine substitutes and other tobacco cessation and cessation support treatments, as well as the multi-disciplinary consultation with tobacco scientists and counselling and counselling. Indeed, admit it, for patients or people who are dependent, it is difficult to do without it. But you have deliberately stalemated on this part and swept it away from the back of your hand. I have tabled an amendment to this effect in committee, and I am going back to plenary because, in essence, it is the least expensive and most effective lever for patients. This is the only potential cure for more than 90% of COPD patients today. I really find it a shame you don't take it into account. I imagine it is either for political reasons or because you prefer not to address this issue. Yet it is crucial. Ladies and gentlemen, this will not prevent me from supporting this text, but with great disappointment, as it remains crucial for these patients, especially since they are very often suffering from cardiovascular diseases also related to tobacco.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said today, chronic obstructive bronchopneumopathy (COPD) is the third leading cause of death in Belgium and Europe. By 2030, it could even become the third leading cause of death in the world, as the WHO recently pointed out. The problem is that there is no cure for this disease. It is therefore an incurable disease. The only measure that would effectively slow down the development of this disease, as Mrs Fonck rightly pointed out at the moment, is the cessation of smoking, since tobacco is the cause of the disease in 80% of cases. It has also been said that COPD is characterized by chronic inflammation of the respiratory tract and a limitation of air flow. It is therefore a chronic disease with all the consequences for patients on a daily basis. These patients experience difficulty breathing, damage to lung tissue, or decreased physical conditions, muscle loss, or depressive events. This disease is almost completely unknown to citizens and the media, apart from those who suffer from it and who know it. The direct consequence of this lack of knowledge is that the disease is largely under-diagnosed. Indeed, only 50% of patients are diagnosed and the others are therefore diagnosed far too late. This is dramatic because only early diagnosis can anticipate the treatment of the disease, improve the quality of life of patients and prevent its rapid deterioration. A better diagnosis therefore goes hand in hand with a better knowledge of the disease, which therefore requires greater awareness, greater prevention of the population but also of the health care staff, whether on the triggers of the disease, such as tobacco, or on the elements that reduce the risk of contracting BCO, such as a balanced diet, for example. Improving diagnosis requires generalization of spirometry, which is a simple, fast and reliable test that allows for early diagnosis of the presence of BCO, as well as determining the stage of the disease in order to be able to define appropriate treatments. Spirometry is literally the essential tool in detecting obstructive respiratory diseases because it can diagnose the disease sometimes several years before the onset of the first symptoms. However, this test is unknown to the general population, but above all is not systematically carried out by general practitioners, because it takes time and, above all, is not sufficiently reimbursed. Action should therefore also be taken at the treatment level to ensure that patients are informed to the best of their proper use, such as that of the inhaler. To do this, a specific interview with the pharmacist on the proper use of medicines is fundamental, but is also unfortunately not planned today for chronic obstructive broncho-pneumopathy. On the other hand, patients with COPD lose physical condition, muscle mass. It is therefore essential, here too, to ensure that they have a comprehensive revalidation programme that can understand the food aspect, but also the psychosocial aspects. In our case, only four centres offer a comprehensive multidisciplinary approach, but only for patients with the most serious symptoms. However, these programs are bearing fruit as they are an important step in the path of recovery and reduction of symptoms of the disease. This reminds me of the testimony of the patients affected by the long covid, which we had the opportunity to hear in the Health Committee. They have prompted us, through their testimonies and their mobilization, to finally propose multidisciplinary care routes in our motion for a resolution on long covid, adopted more than a year ago and which is only beginning to come out of its effects. For all these reasons, COPD must be a public health priority. That is why I was very excited about the tabling of this motion for a resolution by Mrs Vanpeborg, whom I warmly thank. My group will therefore support this motion for a resolution and, in particular, its objectives, including the search for an effective and comprehensive approach to COPD; the analysis of the possibility of carrying out systematic annual checks-up, using a spirometer for certain categories of people at risk; the financial compensation for general practitioners in return for the annual spirometry of patients at risk; the examination, together with the pharmacist, of the need for an interview on the proper use of medicines, reimbursed by INAMI for patients with COPD; or the examination of the possibilities to expand the multidisciplinary centres I have mentioned, relating to compulsory pulmonary revalidation, but also to ensure that these centres can be better distributed throughout our territory. Furthermore, I welcome the amendments that have been made to this text in committee, aimed at integrating the environmental aspect at the heart of this resolution, knowing that there are very clear links between COPD and air pollutants. I must, however, point out three points which, in our view, still lack ambition. Firstly, the only request – Mrs Fonck has alluded to it – concerning tobacco contained in this motion for a resolution calls on the government to step up "its efforts to achieve the ambition of creating a tobacco-free generation in fulfilment of the government agreement". In other words, with this motion for a resolution, Parliament calls on the government to implement its government agreement. The majority could honestly have expected more precision, more ambition, more concrete to reach this tobacco-free generation. That is why we will support the amendment tabled by Mrs Fonck. Secondly, suffering from the asthma and COPD overlapping syndrome that I mentioned in committee – and I thank Mrs Vanpeborgh for referring to it – some patients require desensitisation treatments that sometimes represent such a cost that it can be a real brake on some of them. However, the motion for a resolution under consideration remains completely silent in this regard, since it merely "identifies the care needs of patients with COPD detected early and examines how best to provide them with appropriate care and finance such care". No particular care is targeted, at least not in the context of this application, and it is not said how they will be better funded. I hear Mrs Vanpeborgh explain that the lack of knowledge about this syndrome justifies the absence of specific requests on this subject, but there are already many studies on the prevalence of the risks of this syndrome. It is also known that this syndrome affects one in five asthmatic COPD patients. It's still not negligible. In my view, this large proportion deserved to be referred to in this motion for a resolution. Thirdly, I believe that greater attention could have been paid to the awareness and training of general practitioners in the method of diagnosing spirometry. Perhaps Mrs Vanpeborgh will be able to answer me on these three points. I sincerely hope so. Indeed, if his answers were to prove satisfactory, it would be with enthusiasm that we would vote for this motion for a resolution just now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u81	Mrs Vanpeborgh, I would like to return to your little emotional closure about your disappointment because the N-VA Group will abstain for those 800,000 COPD patients. You know very well that our heart goes, of course, to those 800,000 COPD patients. It's going out to all the patients. That is precisely why, following your coalition agreement, we are calling for regionalisation. This regionalisation should ensure that public health is in one package and at one level close to the patient, so that the organisation of public health can be optimally organised. It is therefore rather faint that you use that last sentence to make it clear that our group would not be committed to those patients. Mrs Vanpeborgh, ladies and gentlemen of the Vivaldi coalition and of Vooruit, I take the question back to you. How do you feel, then, when you vote away all the constructive proposals that are put forward from the N-VA Group politically and on the basis of public health evidence-based? We talked about the orphan diseases and the orphan medicines. Mrs van Peel had the proposal on the asbestos problem. Were you the fraction that doesn't stand up for patients with orphan disease? Were you the group that does not stand up for asbestos victims? Is that it? Colleague, that's a long shot, isn't it? When we talk about proposals we made in covid times, with which we wanted to reduce VAT on personal protective equipment, so that our care providers were protected, were you the party that did not stand up for the care providers? Ladies and gentlemen, let us remain serious. It is up to us to ensure that public health is optimally and as close to the patient as possible. I would therefore expect you to adopt amendments, proposals and comments from the opposition, which are good and which you think are good, and not to include them in the various provisions of the law. That's already been done, and you know it. When we talk about empathy, let's be honest. Everyone on the Health Committee has the best interests with the patients. We are absolutely convinced of that. At Vivaldi, however, I miss intellectual honesty when we talk about evidence-based applications.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the additional questions and reservations. Mrs. Fonck, I'll begin with your thoughts. You say that you think it is important that there is more attention to it and that there should have been more concrete measures in the resolution, because smoking is a very important, even the main cause of that disease. With the latter, you have a point. There are, however, two requests in the resolution. I repeat that this resolution is not about the anti-tobacco plan. That plan is coming, as the Minister made clear at the committee meeting. I assume that there will also be very concrete measures in that plan. I have faith in that. We shall therefore have this debate and I believe that it should be conducted in the appropriate place. Some colleagues, including people from the N-VA, think that we are overly patronising the general practitioners. On the other hand, Mrs Merckx and Mrs Rohonyi think that we should remind the general practitioners even more of their responsibility in their training. In this way, the general practitioners should take proactive steps, for example when vaccination, not only in vaccination against COVID-19, but also against pneumococcal disease and against flu, i.e. wider. I wonder what we have to do to do right. On the one hand, we patronize the general practitioners, on the other hand, we should remind them more of their responsibility. In this sense, we have not actually received any comments from the actors concerned, which I think is a good thing. Now I come to asthma COPD overlap syndrome. I'm not medically educated, I just read about it, because I think it's important to be informed. Mrs Rohonyi, I know that there is still a great deal of discussion about the definition. After all, a double diagnosis must be made. Because there is still a great deal of discussion, there is certainly also discussion about this double treatment. In this respect, that is a very important and interesting fact. I have always said that this resolution is not an end in my mind, but a starting point. I'm gonna go ahead and take that on board for sure. However, it was not raised by the stakeholders concerned, even though they are specialists in this field. Because of the confusion about the definition, I think it would be better not to include it, which does not mean that we take it into account in the annual update with the stakeholders involved. Then I come to Mrs Depoorter's last point. That wasn't emotional at all, it was a purely rational reaction. I'm trying to understand. In substance, there is no fundamental criticism. I would add the report: 'Mrs Katleen Depoorter supports the spirit of the motion for a resolution, but notes that much of the powers of the Länder are once again being raised. It cannot support the efforts of the majority parties to re-federalise health care and will therefore not support the resolution's proposal." I repeat, this resolution has by no means been intended to re-federalise. It was written within the framework of and with respect for the sixth state reform. You may and may criticize this, but we have kept to that framework. It says, "in cooperation with, in consultation with..." That framework is also applied to other resolutions. I refer to the resolution on the European Disability Card of two weeks ago. The overlap with the Länder was equal, if not greater. I regret that Mrs Lanjri is not here because she could confirm that. I don't really think that's a good excuse. I didn't say you didn't care about those patients, I'm just saying this doesn't play for my ego. However, I think that those 800,000 patients have wanted to receive the signal that you are not only abstaining, but also supporting such a resolution, all the more so as you agree with the content of all the elements. The only element you are proposing is that you feel that a lot of powers of the Länder are being raised again. That is true now, but why do you remember here and approve a resolution with exactly the same approach two weeks ago? I suspect why, but I do regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u83	If you'll allow me, Madam President, I'll intervene. Mrs Vanpeborgh insists and tries to intervene somewhat, but I am sorry, dear colleague, I cannot allow you to give a completely convoluted explanation as to the only curative treatment that exists – or that will slow down the evolution of the disease. You tell us that all aspects are included in the text. All you have to do with smoking is your text. Read better or read well! This concerns awareness-raising and prevention. We're here in the field of curatives, and for that, all you're considering is networking between front-line medical workers and tobacco scientists. I repeat: in terms of reimbursement, aid, support and support for tobacco cessation, we must be many ambitious and far more effective in terms of public health. Indeed, this whole aspect is not apparent and has not been mentioned in any way, either in your developments or in your presentations. This is a major failure for me. That will not prevent me from voting for the rest of the text, but it is clearly a failure for me. And I hope, moreover, that the government will not follow you in this respect and, on the contrary, that it will make progress in the area of additional reimbursement and support for patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not in the habit of completely chewing up the discussions in committee, which is not why we are here. However, I would like to draw your attention to a number of points of criticism that we have made in committee, apart from the fact that these are state powers. We have said very clearly that the impact of your motion for a resolution will not be sufficient, that it does not go far enough, that you do not have a protocol to organise the screening efficiently, that you have not made a risk analysis, that the pneumologists believe that you will not make a profit in terms of hospitalization and mortality and that you are patronizing the general practitioners. You were just talking about pneumococcal vaccination, colleague. Well, I asked your Minister Vandenbroucke months ago why a pneumococcal vaccine is not automatically administered together with Humira. He didn't think that was necessary, while the package leaflet just said it was necessary. That's evidence-based. I really don't need to get lessons in the sense of saying, "We're all good for it and you're just doing polarization and regionalisation." No, we are working on optimal healthcare for our patients, not just for COPD patients, but for all types of patients. When I hear your argument, I would very much like to discuss orphan diseases and medicines again. I'd love to, colleague! I would also like to look again at your argument regarding Mr Fonck's amendment. Because what are you actually saying? Basically, you're gonna put that plume on your vivaldi hat. That's what it's all about, no more and no less. You may say that it is not your ego, but perhaps that of the government in whose name you speak. That's very unfortunate. However, there is also one positive element. There is now a very nice proposal on oral care, from my colleague Frieda Gijbels. I'm counting on your conviction to prevail. The proposal is well put together, it will be good for the patients and we can work on it together.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u85	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u86	The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u87	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Daniel Bacquelaine, Caroline Taquin, Benoît Piedboeuf, Nathalie Gilson, Denis Ducrame, Kattrin Jadin, Emmanuel Burton, Vincent Scourneau.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u88	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u89	The rapporteurs are Mrs Fonck and Mr M. De Caluwé, who refer to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u90	Madam President, this is a legislative proposal in which we have a number of comments. Not because of the contents. We have said from the beginning of the discussion that incorporating mental damage into the law is a good thing. We must bear in mind that the conditions of victims of war were precarious and effectively caused damage. We fully support those people when there is evidence of psychological damage and when they were able to obtain an invalidity. So we certainly want to confirm our support for all those involved. What we do have a problem with is the fact that a proposal is being made here that is not really necessary. That's what the experts report. It was also possible to obtain regularization in the French-speaking Civil Invalidity Committee without this adjustment being made. In fact, this proposal will really challenge the independence of the Dutch-speaking Civil Invalidity Committee. In this proposal for a law, we see very clearly the Community aspect, namely that the interpretation of the Dutch-speaking committee is less broad than the interpretation of the French-speaking committee. It is impossible for the legislator to intervene in this and for the legislator to introduce an amendment to the law because one chamber has a different interpretation from the other. We have every confidence that the members of the Dutch-speaking Civil Invalidity Committee have done their work in honour and conscience, and we believe that this should be left as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u91	Madam Chair, we tabled this bill because we believe that in the night and the fog, children were suddenly separated from their parents and hidden in families or in institutions, deprived of their family environment. These children lived in distressing conditions with permanent fear of denunciation and the risk of deportation. They experienced anxiety about the absence of news from parents or relatives. This combination of painful elements was able to generate real trauma in the head of these adult children, with important and lasting repercussions on physical or mental health. The Act of 15 March 1954 provides for a compensation pension for civilian victims of the 1940-1945 war, and obtaining this pension implies a causal link between the act of war and a physical disability. We are not questioning this causal link. We do not intervene in any way, contrary to what has just been said, in the work of the disability commissions or in the appeal board, which retain their full independence. The receipt of this pension also requires continuity of care. In 1954, physical affection and disability were predominant. The purpose of this bill is to adapt the 1954 law to the reality of today. Today, psychic affection is widely recognized, for example by the 2017 law on the creation of the status of national solidarity and the granting of a compensation pension following terrorist acts. We propose to bring the 1954 law into line with the 2017 law. We are introducing four changes to the 1954 Act. First, there is no question of causality, but we ask for recognition of psychological trauma or mental disability related to circumstances of war. We therefore add in the law the mental disability to the physical disability. Secondly, we believe that the lack of continuity of care cannot be the sole reason for rejecting the applicant's request. Continuity of care, of course, remains a criterion for assessment, but in the case of mental disability, it cannot be an absolutely necessary condition. Indeed, in the area of psychological trauma, continuity of care is never a relevant criterion. Thirdly, we propose that all applications made on the basis of mental disability may be referred to the forensic office for the assessment of the damage. Fourthly, we want to allow the applicant whose application has been rejected to benefit from a review procedure where the breach of mental integrity has not been taken into consideration by the Civil Disability Commission or the Higher Appeal Board for lack of continuity of care or lack of causal link between the act of war and the psychological trauma. Colleagues, today the scientific literature deals extensively with what is known as post-traumatic stress disorder, which is recognized among groups or individuals who have experienced violent, traumatic or out-of-the-ordinary circumstances. I have been made aware of this problem, notably by the Association l'Enfant Caché (Het Ondergedoken Kind). I have no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that you are convinced of the relevance of recognizing the suffering endured by the civilian victims of war and, in particular, those of the children whose lives were forever marked by this upheaval of humanity. Let me conclude by quoting something that has deeply affected me. We are not dealing with a budgetary issue today. You are well aware that, eighty years after the beginning of the war, we are no longer really in a budgetary problem. We are not in a problem of means. We are truly in a problem of principles and recognition. This principle of recognition has, in my mind, been strongly reinforced by remarkable literary pages by Jean-Claude Grumberg, who tells the story of a child who was thrown, by his parents, from the train that was taking them to the camps and who was gathered by a Polish family. This rather short book, whose title is perplexed and interrogative, is called The Most Valuable of Goods. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u92	Mr Bacquelaine, once it is not customary, we will support your proposal, which is correcting an injustice and which aims to recognise a psychological disability due to war, such as the post-traumatic syndrome you mentioned. Better late than never. In this case, it is indeed very late because, as you recalled, this is the 1954 law that we are going to amend in 2022, sixty-eight years later. Personally, on the occasion of the commemorations of May 8, I was greatly moved by the story of a survivor who had escaped from a train that took his parents to Auschwitz. These people are obviously marked forever. In this respect, I find the attitude of the N-VA somewhat petty, referring to budgetary or Community considerations in such a case. It's actually very late. There are probably only a few still alive victims who will be able to find a little more recognition in this change of law. I hope that they will feel recognized in their suffering as a result of humanity's worst crime.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to speak in this debate because, as soon as it comes to putting an end to a situation of injustice or arbitrariness, my party is responding. That is what guides my personal political commitment. It must be noted that this bill finally put an end to the differences in treatment observed in the files relating to the civilian victims of the Second World War. Today, the Act of 15 March 1954 on pensions for the compensation of civil victims of the Second World War and their dependants implies that decisions on the granting of such pensions are usually taken by administrative judicial commissions in which there are four major difficulties, which need to be addressed. First, these commissions have broad powers to assess the facts before them, so that the burden of proof on the applicants can be very heavy. One can easily imagine the difficulty of establishing, thus proving, a causal link between established war events, on the one hand, and psychological traumas that are still real decades later. In fact, this difficulty has been relayed by some field associations helping victims and I am really happy that they were able to be heard in this way. Secondly, there are currently disparities in the way in which cases are dealt with between the various civil disability commissions. It is noted that the French-speaking civil commissions appreciate the causal link more flexibly than the Dutch-speaking civil commissions, so that the latter more often refute the applicants' requests. In my view, the Community argument raised here by the N-VA is absolutely not valid. On the contrary, I believe that it makes sense to ensure equal treatment for victims, their beneficiaries, and therefore to take account of their trauma regardless of their region or language. Thirdly, the lack of continuity of care is very often a ground in appeal proceedings for rejecting applicants' applications. This argument is in fact based on a misinterpretation of the law by the civil disability commissions. In the end, psychological trauma is not necessarily linked to a journey of continuous care. It was therefore necessary to clarify the law to that effect by establishing the obligation of a test or examination which must set out the nature of the sequel invoked and thus make the link between the sequel and the harmful event. For example, this examination may take the form of an interview with a psychotherapist, which will reduce the margin of appreciation left to the committees today, a point on which it will nevertheless be necessary to remain very careful in practice. Finally, Mr Bacquelaine referred to it and I would like to thank him for all the work he has done in committee, physical disability was recognised but not mental disability. Of course, today we can regret that this legislative amendment is coming very late, but beside the symbol, there is still a significant step forward that needs to be highlighted, welcomed and supported. That is what we will do just now when we vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u94	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u95	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2419/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2419/1) The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u96	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u97	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u98	Madam Chair, the bill we are considering this afternoon received an emergency on June 16. The Committee on the Economy met yesterday, 22 June, to discuss and vote on the draft. I should like to point out that a consensus has been reached both in committee and in the Conference of Presidents so that this dossier can be sent to plenary today. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all my colleagues, both the majority and the opposition, who have helped to ensure that this project is brought in very quickly and that this discussion can be conducted yesterday in committee and put to the vote today in plenary. He wanted me to thank them all. Regarding the work in committee, Minister Pierre-Yves Dermagne first recalled the context: the rise in energy prices and the measures taken by the government to help households. For those who are heated to city gas, a 6% VAT reduction has been taken. However, for people who are heating with fuel oil, such an approach to reducing VAT is not possible under European law. This is why the government decided last March to develop a centralized bonus mechanism at the FPS Economy level. This mechanism was agreed upon and submitted to the various advisory bodies. The minister said that the Kern of 18 June decided to increase the amount of the oil cheque from 200 to 225 euros and to give citizens more time to apply. He said that information sessions would be organised to provide the best possible information to citizens. Ms Van Bossuyt said that the aim of supporting households was commendable. However, a different approach from that of the government is, in her view, desirable. She referred to the N-VA group's proposal for a law to ensure that each household received a tax reduction of around 500 euros. On the other hand, the government provides for differentiated aid (enlargement of the social tariff, VAT at 6%, 100 euros for electricity, fuel check). In her view, this raises questions of equity between renewable energy consumers and fossil energy consumers, between owners and co-owners, between Flemish households and Walloon households. Implementation also requires administrative work. According to Mr. Vicaire, the aim is not to encourage fossil energy consumption, but to support the purchasing power of households heating up with fuel oil in the same way as those heating up with city gas. The proposed bonus mechanism will generate an administrative cost of less than 1 per cent of the allocated budget. The measure that is taken is therefore both fair, generous and intelligent. She received support from the Ecolo-Groen group. Mr Patrick Prévot presented amendments by the majority. These amendments aim, on the one hand, to increase the amount of the allocation from EUR 200 to EUR 225, in accordance with the decision taken in Kern. On the other hand, they aim to extend the time limits of the grant procedure. The delivery period that entitles the allowance will run from November 15, 2021 to December 31, 2022. Applications may be submitted until 10 January 2023. The SPF Economy will decide on admissibility by 15 March 2023. Mr. Van Lommel asks why this measure announced for months has not been carried out faster. It considers that there is a Community aspect to the file, given the significant differences between regions in the use of fuel oil. His group wanted structural measures for the energy bill and not for regularly renewed partial agreements. She hoped that the measure could quickly be voted on to be of benefit to citizens. She stressed the importance of communicating well so that citizens could carry out the process. On behalf of the MR Group, she asked whether comparable support would be given to artisans and SMEs. Ms Dierick raised a number of specific questions on the granting procedure. Will there be an information campaign? Is the online platform already ready? How long will it take to release the amounts? She hoped for the greatest possible clarity on the whole procedure to be followed and welcomed the various measures taken by the government. Mr. D'Amico said that the right to energy was part of the right to decent housing. His group was fighting for structural measures such as 6% VAT. European law must not be an obstacle to helping people in precarious conditions better. He believes that the procedure for granting the fuel check can be simplified. Care must be taken not to discriminate against persons without an account number. He asked whether any assistance sessions would be planned to assist people in their efforts. Mrs Depraetere called for 6% VAT on energy to become a structural measure. She indicated that the issue should be considered in October when preparing the budget. However, persons who heat oil do not have access to reduced VAT. It is therefore important to support them. She asked when and how the information campaign would take place. Minister Dermagne answered the various questions asked. It denies any Community character to the file. If the percentages of oil users in Flanders and Wallonia had been reversed, he would have acted in exactly the same way as Minister of Economy. It recalls the government's commitment not to leave anyone at the side of the road for this winter. As regards public information, a communication campaign is planned and all available channels will be mobilised. The Economic Commission then proceeded on 22 June to vote on the bill. A second reading was not requested. All the members of the committee voted in favour of the draft, with the exception of the members of the N-VA group who abstained. Madam President, if I may, I shall now say a few words on behalf of my group on the text before us. First of all, I sincerely thank Minister Pierre-Yves Dermagne for carrying this project. With it, we will be able to support a large part of the population and help them cope with rising energy prices. We are, in a way, correcting some inequality, since if the direct mechanism for reducing VAT, particularly on gas, had been implemented, we also needed to have attention for people who are heating with oil or propane. That is the objective of this text. In Belgium, one in five households heat up with oil. This represents one million households, of which 37.3% actually live in Wallonia. As I have just said, with this project, it is an important part of the population that can be helped. In our view, it is essential to support the purchasing power of households. I really want to support the government's commitment not to leave anyone at the side of the road this winter. At the level of our group, we will continue to call on the government to take strong steps to help people, including facing rising energy costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u99	Thank you, Mr Prévot, for the oral report. By the way, it is remarkable that the PS Group is apparently the largest in the hemisphere, as it was allowed to start the debate. Maybe it's her dream of the future. I certainly hope that we will remain the largest group. I will not repeat the whole debate yesterday in committee and I would just like to make a few important points. As indicated above, I think the objective of the proposed measure is noble. We all agree that the energy bill for our families is very important and that measures must be taken to achieve this. Our group would, however, take other measures than those taken by the government. Mr Prévot also referred to my explanation yesterday. Colleagues Wollants and Donné, on behalf of the Group, have put on the table a very concrete proposal. This proposal concerns the granting of a tax reduction of EUR 500 to families. This has several advantages. After all, it would be done through a reduction in the farm levy. That technique was used before, for example for the federal job bonus. Other advantages are that each household can enjoy it and that it is the same amount of 500 euros for everyone. Consumption will not be simulated either. That is also not insignificant. In order to reduce the tax rate, consumption is partly simulated. This is, of course, in stark contrast to the measures taken by the government; that is clear to everyone. An important element that we addressed yesterday and which is not mentioned in the oral report, although it is of course difficult to mention everything in it, is that the government forgets the important group of residents of apartment buildings. That's not a small group. We are talking about between 3 and 4 million people. Compared to the total population in Belgium of 11 million, the government does indeed forget a large group. Those 3 to 4 million apartment residents largely heat on gas. A small part of them heats on electricity. They still cannot benefit from the reduced gas VAT rate of 6%. Yesterday, I referred to the various statements that have been made on this matter, including those of your President Paul Magnette, Minister, who already proposed a solution in April in the shortest possible time. Others said that a solution would be sought diligently. My group has been asking questions about this since January. Then Minister Van Peteghem announced that a solution would be worked out and it was said last week that the parties concerned will also be able to benefit from the reduced rate of VAT on gas from 1 July. Today is June 23rd, and I sincerely ask myself, in the interest of the many residents of apartment buildings, how in God's name you will be able to get everything in order by July 1st, so that residents of apartment buildings will also be able to enjoy the reduced rate of VAT on gas. Of course, the measure will only apply to them from 1 July, whereas others have been in force since 1 April. If the government still manages to implement the measure from 1 July, there will still be a difference with the non-apartment residents. Then I wasn't talking about the group of residents of apartment buildings that heat up with electricity. There is still no solution for them, nor does it seem to be in the making. If, however, our proposal had been adopted, the majority rejected it, it would have been all right, and everyone could enjoy that advantage in the same way, an advantage that would have been greater, namely EUR 500, than the advantage put forward by the various government measures. In committee, I had also asked why the users of masalt should enjoy a greater advantage than the users of gas. If we compare the figures of the CREG, we can see that an average family that heats on gas, because of the very high rising gas prices, which are higher than the prices of masalt, has cost an average of EUR 1,150 over the past year than a family that heats on masalt. Those who heat on gas have received a one-off premium of 100 euros. In addition, there is also the reduced tax rate of 6%. That's what calculations were made of. That would be EUR 73. That measure has now been extended. So there's gonna be a lot of that. However, the one-off premium of 100 euros has also been granted to users of masalt. The premium was granted through the electricity bill. So we still see a discrepancy in the measures in favour of those who heat on gas and those who heat on masalt. It does not seem to me to be an objective justification for this. I will by no means claim that it was so intended that you denied this quite fiercely yesterday - but we can only observe that in Wallonia more than half of the number of families is heated on masalt, whereas in Flanders it is 16% to 17%. I would like to repeat what I said yesterday: it is not the Flemish parties who are wearing the pants in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this project concerns a €225 premium which would be granted to households whose main residence is heated either by oil or by bulk propane gas. The financial situation of many households is critical. It demands that we leave our comfort zones to find solutions – certainly imperfect – to deal with a succession of crises and a situation that none of our leaders is of age to have known. For these reasons, the Ecolo-Green Group will support this text, but we see the following additional advantages. First, fair treatment for every citizen in the face of rising costs of living. As the Minister of Energy has said, the state will not make any profit on the backs of those suffering the increase in energy prices. This premium balances the VAT supplement received as a result of the increase in designated fuels. The government has reduced VAT on gas and electricity. This will be about the same amount. This is a treatment justice for all households. Second, the project provides a mechanism to provide this premium to residents of a residence heated by a central boiler. This mechanism, via the trustee, was created from scratch, starting with a blank sheet, which explains in particular the time required for its implementation. I thank the services of the FPS Economy for this work. Thirdly, we have been working urgently on this text and yesterday two amendments were introduced. First, the amount was increased to 225 euros instead of 200 euros. Then the dates were extended. This change of date is particularly clever because the bonus is unique. So, even if the dates get bigger, people won't enjoy it any more. They'll all be able to enjoy it. Those who were forward-thinking and who had been back up in January or in any case before the energy crisis, perhaps because they had seen inflation grow in the United States, perhaps because they had anticipated higher rates in the United States and necessarily the rise of the dollar against the euro, they would be able to fill up at the end of the year and also benefit from the premium. Finally, to get out of the crisis and really help our fellow citizens, we must listen to economists. They are based on scientific studies. We are waiting for the economists' report requested by the government by the end of this month. I hope that we will still be able to go beyond political positions and take the short- and long-term measures advocated by these specialists, in particular to counter the threshold effects and to combat inequalities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u101	Madam President, Mr Van Lommel has dealt with this dossier in committee. He is also better placed in view of his activities in the Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate. However, he could not be present today. I shall therefore make a brief statement in his place. A concession for the purchase of house heating oil or propane is more than welcome. The prices for energy swing out of the pan. It remains to be seen whether we have reached the peak or whether prices may increase even further. Being able to heat the house is a basic need. Making and keeping energy affordable is therefore a priority. The permanent reduction of VAT on energy to 6% would therefore be a good thing for citizens. After all the bickering within the government, however, no decision has yet been taken. There are apparently as many parties within Vivaldi as there are opinions. They do not agree on anything, even when it comes to increasing purchasing power. Not only energy for heating is a basic requirement, but also the fuel for the car to drive to and from work and many purchases in the shop are basic needs. Prices in shops have increased by 11% on average since December last year. Not only the energy, but also the shopping cart must be affordable and remain. The energy deal was made months ago. We understand that it takes time to work things out correctly, but we cannot get rid of the impression that it could have been done a little faster. I have recently asked the Minister for Energy, Mrs Van der Straeten, for figures. In total, there are nearly 5.2 million electricity contracts in Belgium and 3.1 million gas procurement contracts. If we look at this by region, there are some notable differences. For example, there are almost 3 million electricity contracts and just over 2 million gas contracts in Flanders. Assuming that almost every house has an electricity connection, we can say that almost 70% of Flemish families have gas connections. In Wallonia there are about 1.65 million electricity contracts and just under 700,000 gas contracts. So only just over 41% of Walloon families use gas. So much more Flemings than Waals heat on gas. As a result, we believe it has taken a little longer to grant this reduction in VAT on gas. Moreover, the compensation for heating on fuel oil is 225 euros and the reduction in the VAT rate on gas is only 95 euros on average between April and October. Moreover, the price of gas has increased even more in proportion than the price of fuel oil. Anyone who heats on fuel oil will nevertheless receive a higher allowance. Mr Minister, you will deny it, as in committee, but given the figures I have just quoted, we cannot get rid of the impression that it has some sort of Community cargo. With regard to collective heating in buildings, we note that there is still no legislative framework for gas heating. That was a long time ago, but there is still no such thing. This draft law does address the problem of collective heating on fuel oil, but those who collectively heat on natural gas still do not qualify. The allowance that is granted is a patchwork. To date, no structural measure has been taken to reduce this energy bill. That is precisely what the Flemish interest demands, structural measures to reduce that energy bill. Energy is very expensive. Many people are finding it increasingly difficult to pay their energy bills. That is why we will support this bill. But colleagues, we need more than just this. I can only hope, Minister, that you will come up with more decisive measures, because people are not gonna make it anymore. One can expect a little more from a government that calls itself progressive and wants to stand up for the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u102	Madam President, I would also like to thank Mr Patrick Prévot for his concise report and all the Commissioners of the Committee on the Economy because we have been able to obtain unanimity in order to avoid second reading and to be able to vote on this important text today in plenary. Indeed, Minister, the measure is urgent. It was decided in the Council of Ministers last April and is expected by a million citizens who, because of the increase in fuel and energy costs, have difficulty either filling their tanks for next winter or simply paying the bill for the recently filled tank. This concerns a million Belgians! It doesn't matter whether they are Flemish, Walloon, German-speaking or Brusselsish, today they all find themselves in a difficult situation. It's not just low incomes that find themselves in a complicated situation. The middle class is also today on the wire, has a rope on the neck and has trouble finishing the month. It was therefore very important to act. As I did in committee, I once again insist on the communication that will have to be made quickly so that all those concerned can truly benefit from this unique €225 premium. This is obviously very important. Furthermore, although I know that measures and studies are under way to try to find other situations, I would also point out that we must help our self-employed, small businesses and artisans. I take the example of the baker who has to heat his bread oven. He too is in an extremely complicated situation. This difficult cost obviously also affects the household of the small self-employed. It is therefore extremely important that we act for them as well. Minister, you announced to me that the results of the working group would be final and expected in early July. These aids are, of course, welcome. It is now important to work on more comprehensive solutions in the long term, as it is well known that the cost situation is not going to improve. My group and I must repeat, of course, are defending structural solutions to increase the purchasing power of Belgians. This obviously involves an increase in the employment rate. This is fundamental - and, of course, a reduction in taxation. I think you already know the message.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u103	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, energy prices are historically high because of the war in Ukraine. Many people are having a hard time paying their energy bill. The government has already taken a number of measures to reduce high energy prices. The proposal of our Minister and his colleague, Mrs Van der Straeten, already temporarily reduced VAT on electricity and gas to 6%, a measure that was extended last weekend. In addition, the extended social tariff for the most vulnerable was also temporarily extended, a measure which we certainly support. But we must not forget the people who are not entitled to it and who are having a hard time. Not all people heat their homes with electricity or gas. Some families still heat with house fire oil, for example because there is no gas pipeline in their street. This is the case both in Flanders and Wallonia. Many families who live in the countryside in West Flanders or Limburg, for example, still heat their homes with fire oil. For us, therefore, this is certainly not a Community debate. Anyone who needs it is entitled to it, regardless of their place of residence. That is our view, at least. So yes, even those who do not heat with gas or electricity should be supported. Since it is not possible to reduce VAT on house fuel oil or propane in bulk, the government has opted for another solution, namely a premium of EUR 200, which was raised to EUR 225 last weekend. That premium was announced some time ago. Now we can finally proceed to the vote. I think it is important that we finally clarify how the right holders can apply for the premium. This can be done online or via a registered letter. Unfortunately, the right holders have to do so themselves; automatic allocation is not possible. That's actually a bit of a shame. That is why I would expressly ask the Minister to set up a good information campaign so that everyone is aware of how things are going to work and how quickly he or she will see the premium deposited in his bank account. We are pleased that the draft is now on the agenda. I would like to express my thanks to all the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. We have had to wait a long time for the text, but it has been dealt with very smoothly in committee. There has also been a deviation from the custom of asking for a second reading, which allowed us to deal with the draft today. I thought that was a very constructive attitude of all my fellow Members. You see, that's the way it can be. That tastes like more; thank you. We will certainly support the draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u104	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, energy must be seen as a fundamental need. Being able to heat up is part of the right to live in decent housing, whether you are heating up with gas or oil, by the way. People rarely have the opportunity to choose and pay for all the work to change their installation. That is why energy taxes must be kept to a minimum. With the PTB, we have been fighting for a very long time to reduce household energy bills. We have been highlighting 6% VAT since 2007. We have collected some 300,000 signatures on a petition to date. Excuse me for a minute. We put pressure on this government in the fall and winter months, for 6% VAT on gas and electricity, before the government finally decided to make this decision in the spring and put the fuel check on the table in the summer. With the Vivaldi, it's two to three seasons late. But workers cannot be swept for three months in three months, without knowing how much their energy bill will be in the longer term. I say this today because measures to deal with inflation must be thought out in a long-term strategy, not just with cheques to try to limit the loss of purchasing power. When you meet with ministers to discuss the long-term vision for military spending, you are able to go until 2035. But when it comes to essential measures for the working class, their energy bills, you promise measures for a maximum of six months. Today, you are putting on the table a bill that provides for a cheque for the acquisition of diesel and propane. Of course, we will support this measure, because people need it. It's been an emergency for months. But I would like to make it clear that we are advocating more structural measures. A 6% VAT, not only for gas and electricity, but also for fuel oil. Energy is not a luxury product but a fundamental need. It must be taxed at the lowest rate, be it gas or fuel oil. I know, you're going to tell me that this is not possible and that Europe is going to prevent us from doing so. But when it came to helping the banks that had gone bankrupt in 2008, that was done. So there's no reason. Finally, I will quote my colleague Albert Vicar, who said that specialists and economists should be taken into account. I'm listening to what he's telling me, because economists are specialists. I will quote Bruno Colmant, who is not a member of the PTB. He called on the political world to rethink the soundness of consumer taxes. It is a reflection that we should indeed have because these taxes are the most unfair.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u105	Minister, I will not repeat what is stated in the bill. After all, it has already been explained in detail. Moreover, it is a rather simple bill. I would like to come back to a number of criticisms. What is remarkable about this is that the criticisms are made specifically or separately on the draft law before us, rather than on the wider picture of the various measures taken throughout the energy and purchasing power debate. That's remarkable, because of course it's an en-en-story. After all, we want to ensure that no one stays in the cold. For the very many people who are currently struggling to pay their bill, it does not matter whether they heat with electricity, gas, fuel oil or a heat pump. That does not matter to them as long as they are able to continue paying the invoice at the end of the month. It is precisely for this reason that we have taken a series of measures. The first measure was the extended social tariff, which protects two million people. That is a large group that is protected by it. Unfortunately, because of rising prices, this is not enough, because many people who do not fall within that group are also faced with purchasing power problems. That is why we also protect a second group, a group that receives a direct VAT reduction on gas, electricity or heat via their invoice. They will receive a premium of 100 euros via their invoice. Even then, however, there was a third group that fell out of the boat. That's the group that heats up with fuel oil. For them, the check is a good solution. I heard here and there saying that this measure is not a structural solution and that a check is just a check. That is true, of course, but that check must be looked at within the package of measures as a way of ensuring that people do not fall off the boat. Mrs Van Bossuyt, a group that you quite rightly mention, consists of the people in an apartment block, who do indeed fall out of the boat. That's just the way it is. We have to establish that. That's a big group, too. However, for that fourth group, too, the government has committed itself to taking action. EUR 70 million has been made available for this purpose. So, Minister, we are counting on the government to quickly launch a fourth initiative to make good use of these resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u106	Madam President, Mrs Depraetere, it is indeed an en-en-story. You say it yourself, for the large group of residents of apartment buildings that heat on gas, there is still no solution. I wonder why you did not vote in favour of our group's proposal, including Mr Donné and Mr Wollants. With this we could immediately give 500 euros to each family, so also to those who live in an apartment building. I thought that would have been a lot easier. With our proposal, everyone would have been equal before the law, and it would have gone much faster. You say that the government has now committed itself to the residents of apartment buildings, but that is still not there. For residents of apartment buildings that heat on electricity, it is not even mentioned yet. So I am looking for an explanation as to why our proposal was not approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u107	My group and I believe in a step-by-step system, in which the group falling within the extended social tariff is better protected. For them it is a much higher amount than the EUR 500 mentioned here. They have already received a bigger discount in the past year, and I think that is absolutely necessary. This group needs this most, but this does not mean that other measures should be taken to support other groups as well. However, we do not believe in one measure for everyone, rather in a stepped-up form. When it comes to taking a quick and logical measure for as many people as possible, you will understand why we were such strong supporters of the reduction of VAT on energy. We have seen that it could be implemented quickly and thus the largest group is immediately reached. Unlike you, we support the principle that energy is a basic product and that it is not a luxury to heat its home. In that, our proposal differs from yours. A one-off or even permanent tax discount does not solve this. We are convinced that energy is a basic product. That is why we prefer to see the various measures side by side.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u108	Very briefly, because I do not want to have an endless discussion. You say that you are in favour of the VAT reduction on energy, but for the residents of apartment buildings that did not offer a solution. We're talking about three to four million people here. There's no way to ignore such a large group. In the best case scenario, the measure will apply to them on 1 July. For the others, it was April 1st. These people have not been able to enjoy it for three months, namely April, May and June. So you are talking about extending the social tariff for the group that can enjoy it, but you know as well as I do that the lowest income class of working people who are just not covered by the social tariff is still a very large group. They can't enjoy it. That would have been the case with our proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u109	I have just explained that the social tariff is the first step. Four steps must be taken to ensure that people no longer fall out of the boat. We do believe that you must protect the group that needs it most, and then continue to work in steps. We also agree that the people living in an apartment building are also entitled to that VAT reduction. Mr Verduyckt has already asked the Minister for Energy a great many questions about this. However, that does not seem to be so easy. You know that this is legally and technically slightly more complicated than a VAT reduction directly on the invoice of someone living in a house. However, the government has committed itself to this and I see the Minister nodding in agreement, so I assume that this can be implemented fairly quickly, with the means already provided for.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u110	One more thing. That was just the advantage of our proposal, because it went through the tax bill. For people living in an apartment building, that tax bill looks the same as for people who don't live in an apartment building. They could have enjoyed it right away and that would not have been so complicated. Seems like a missed opportunity to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u111	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of rising energy prices (fuels, gas, electricity, fuel oil), the government had to react as quickly as possible. This bill therefore allows a cheque of 225 euros to be awarded to all households resident in Belgium who heat up with diesel or propane. I would remind you that we are talking about 50% of the Walloon households which still have an oil boiler and, in Flanders, 600,000 people. There is no doubt that this allowance will help to alleviate many of them. Another positive aspect is the extension of this measure to condominiums. It will be recalled that, when VAT was reduced to 6% on gas, condominiums representing 1.5 million dwellings had been the biggest forgotten of the measure. I therefore welcome the fact that the government has finally heard their appeal. However, at DéFI, we wonder about the scope of this cheque. When it comes to distributing cheques or bonuses, very few parties question the validity of the measure. However, in our view, the disadvantage of such a measure is that it is absolutely not fair or equitable. How can we justify the fact that the fuel check will be distributed to all households that request it, regardless of their income? In other words, if a household earns barely more than the poverty line or is considered to be part of the higher deciles, the amount of the cheque will invariably be the same: 225 euros. In Belgium, almost 60% of workers earn less than the average gross monthly wage. It would have been logical, but above all fairer, that the smaller or smaller the financial means of a household, the larger the amount of the cheque. While it is true that the objective of this measure is to relieve households from rising energy prices, it must be noted that not all households suffer the same consequences of this price increase. Indeed, the most disadvantaged households, not to mention the middle class, must necessarily allocate a greater proportion of their income to heat up than the most affluent. As you will understand, Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that this fuel check could have been proportionate to the revenues of the beneficiaries, we will support its adoption in that it nevertheless helps to alleviate the current energy prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly, I would like first of all to associate myself with the thanks extended to all members of the Committee on Energy and to all Members of this Parliament for having agreed to deal with this text as a matter of urgency. I would also like to thank the members of the minority, since they did not ask for a second reading and allowed a quick vote on this text. The measure that is being presented today responds to a dire need within the population. It corrects an inequality between citizens depending on whether they are heating oil, propane or natural gas. It makes it possible to take account of housing situations with collective heating in condominiums. I can confirm that there is a clear commitment on the part of the government, with a budget of 70 million on the key, to correct also the inequality concerning people living in apartments with collective gas heating. This measure will be taken as soon as possible to finally correct this inequality.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u113	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u114	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2752/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2752/4) The bill has 12 clauses. The draft law has 12 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u115	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u116	The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u117	The rapporteurs, MM. Wim Van der Donckt, Hugues Bayet and Wouter Vermeersch refer to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u118	Madam President, budgetary control has shown that, with automatic indexation of course, the generous funding granted by the Chamber to the political parties will be indexed again. Currently, the counter for 2022 stands at 44 million euros. Just over EUR 10 million goes to the operating allowance of the political groups. The remaining EUR 34 million goes to the political parties. The federal government itself has already taken an initiative to save 1,11 % at that point, but that is of course of no use if the amounts are subsequently adjusted to the index. In fact, that happens several times this year. I persist in anger, like the previous three years, I have tabled my amendments in order to save money in politics as well. We are asking for savings from ordinary citizens. Colleagues, if you accept my amendments, this could save more than EUR 2 million on party funding. I would also like to remind you that my legislative proposal for the structural abolition of automatic indexation to avoid having to stand here every time, every so much time, is still pending and lying there collecting dust. If you had approved this at the time, we could have saved more than 3 million on the generous financing of the parties, without any difficulty, without having to hurt ourselves. The citizens have already made enormous financial efforts. So it is high time that the federal government, as well as this Chamber, did the same thing. The deletion of the index in this particular case seems to me to be a first logical step, but apparently the majority cannot even make that effort. I hear from all sides how unjust this party financing is. Look, I'm taking an initiative to take a first step to correct that. I look forward to initiatives which I am sure I have said every time, but I am still waiting for them to come from the majority. I therefore ask once again for the support of these simple amendments, which would be a serious saving for our public finances this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u119	Madam President, I would like to respond to Mr. Van der Donckt and tell him that we have taken note of the N-VA amendments. Let me also say that they are "small" compared to the ones we have introduced, which aim at halving the allocation to political parties. It is true that for the N-VA this would represent a lot. They also aim at halving the remuneration of Members. Indeed, everyone here will agree that they are a little too much paid to know what people are actually experiencing. However, decisions are made that impact them every day. They are also intended to reduce departmental offices where we believe there has been an inflation of staff. This is not the date of this government. It's older. In our view, there should be more reliance on administration. Unfortunately, however, under this government as well as under the previous one, we are seeing inflation at the level of the staff of their cabinet while employment is being destroyed in the administration. It's quite paradoxical. Mr Van der Donckt, if you really want to save money, I would ask you to support the amendments of the PTB rather than those of the N-VA.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u120	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u121	The vote on the amendments, the 2021 accounts and the 2022 budget adjustment of the House of Representatives and the financing of political parties will take place at a later date. The vote on the amendments, the 2021 accounts and the budgetary adjustment 2022 of the Chamber of Representatives and the funding of the political parties will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u122	The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u123	The rapporteurs, MM. Van der Donckt, Bayet and Vermeersch refer to their written report. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u124	The vote on the adjustments to the budgets for the budget year 2022 of the institutions receiving funding will take place at a later date. The vote on the adjustments to the budgets of the institutions entitled to make payments for the financial year 2022 will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u125	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 21 April 2022, an appeal for candidates was published in the Moniteur belge of 13 May 2022 for the terms of second alternate French-speaking member of the Committee P. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 21 April 2022, a call for candidates for the mandates of French-speaking second alternate member appeared in the Belgian Official Journal of 13 May 2022. No applications were submitted. No applications were submitted. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 June 2022, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Moniteur a new call for candidates for the terms of second alternate French-speaking member of the P Committee. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 June 2022, I propose to publish a new call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandates of French-speaking second alternate member of the P Committee. No objection? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u126	The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the draft law establishing the Central Register for decisions of the judiciary and concerning the publication of judgments and judgments, No. 2754/1. The Government asked for an urgent opinion pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law establishing the Central Register for decisions of the Court of Justice was submitted and when the judgments and judgments were published, No. 2754/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u127	Madam President, the establishment of a central register for the decisions of the Judicial Order is one of the five objectives of the plan for the digitisation of justice for which budgets from the Recovery and Resilience Facility of the European Commission are foreseen. The deadline for full operationalization was set in the fourth quarter of 2023. Failure to meet this objective will result in a financial penalty. Therefore, in order to maintain a realistic chance of achieving this objective, it is important that this legal framework be published as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u128	I understand, Madam Minister, that it is not easy to speak out when everyone is talking. I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u129	The government also called for urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the bill to make justice more human, faster and firmer II, No. 2774/1. The Government has also requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law to make justice more humane, faster and more criminal II, No. 2774/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u130	Madam President, the urgency is justified here first of all by the fact that two articles must enter into force as soon as possible, since they are designed to correct sections 4128 and 4285 for a material error in the new book IV of the Civil Code, a book which will enter into force on 1 July 2022. Secondly, this bill contains improvements aimed at reducing overcrowding in prison. It is therefore urgent to take both general and specific measures in this area. The draft also contains amendments to the Act of 17 May 2006 which should enter into force on 1 September and be published in due course in the Belgian Monitor. It should also be noted that the opinion of the Council of State was received more than a month after the deadline, which makes it necessary for an urgent debate in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u131	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u132	The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of filing: - the draft law on the status and control of stock exchange companies with regard to certain expedited appeal procedures to the Council of State, No. 2762/1; - the draft law on the status and control of stock exchange companies and various provisions, No. 2763/1; - the draft law amending the law of 25 October 2016 on access to the activity of providing investment services and the status and control of portfolio management and investment consultancy companies and laying down other various provisions aimed at transposing Directive (EU) 2019/2034 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on prudential supervision of investment firms, No 2765/1. The Government has also requested urgency under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting: - the draft law on the statute and supervision of stock exchange companies with regard to certain accelerated procedures for appeal to the Council of State, No. 2762/1; - the draft law on the statute and supervision of stock exchange companies and laying down various provisions, No. 2763/1; - the draft law amending the Act of 25 October 2016 on access to investment services and on the statute and supervision of companies for asset management and investment advice, and laying down various other provisions transposing Directive (EU) 2019/2034 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on the prudential supervision of investment firms, No. 2765/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u133	Madam Chair, these are Bills Nos. 2762, 2763 and 2765. This directive was to be transposed into Belgian law by 26 June 2021. Due to the complexity of this directive and the fact that it is transposed through three different bills, one of which creates a completely new code, transposition has fallen behind. The European Commission has initiated infringement proceedings because of the late transposition. The Government has made every effort to have this bill approved before the summer holidays and to avoid any further action by the European Commission. This timing has also been communicated to the European Commission as part of the infringement procedure I have just mentioned. It is therefore important that these bills come into force as soon as possible. Until these bills are passed, a number of provisions of the July 11, 2021 Act will not come into force. Therefore, so-called Class 1 investment firms cannot be recognised as credit institutions. This delay also means that the supervisory powers of the institutions concerned, which are described as important, cannot be transferred from the National Bank of Belgium to the European Central Bank. At European level, the IFD Directive is supplemented by the IFR Regulation and in the meantime by a dozen implementing regulations. These come out of direct effects in the Belgian legal order and the lack of transposition of the directive complicates the consistent application of Belgian law and the above-mentioned regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u134	Madam President, I have listened very carefully, but there was some fuss. I think I heard the date of 26 June. If that's true, it means there's still three days left, which certainly points to urgency. But I also thought I heard 2021, or did I misunderstand? (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u135	Yeah, so it's really urgent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u136	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u137	Madam President, we support the urgency of the first bill (No. 2762/1), but not of the other two (Nos. 2763/1 and 2765/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u138	Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u139	Consideration of proposals Consideration of proposals You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (Art. 75, n° 5, Rgt) If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. (Art. 75, No. 5, Rgt) No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u140	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would have liked to ask the urgency of our proposal for a special law (No. 2779/1) to turn Zaventem airport into a Flemish airport and transfer and regionalise it. It's turning all square. [[Rumor]] Thank you for all your enthusiasm! It's all square at the airport, there hasn't been a president for over a year. It is time for the Participating Company Flanders (PMV) to take over the shares of the Federal Participation and Investment Company (FPIM) and for Flanders to become competent for the airport of Zaventem at last, I would say.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u141	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u142	Madam President, I am going to ensure that Mr Malik Ben Achour is accompanied by a quorum.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u143	We have heard that Mrs Marghem cannot be here for medical reasons. Mr Wollants, they share a long and intense past, old love rust not, his voting behavior will adapt to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u144	Madam President, I will take care of Mr Simon Moutquin, who is prevented today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u145	We record these three requests for pairing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u146	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Marco Van Hees in Table 35. (2735/2) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Marco Van Hees on the table p. 35. (2735/2) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u147	Yes [[21]] Yes No. 104 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Marco Van Hees in Table 35. (2735/2) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Marco Van Hees on the table p. 35. (2735/2) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u148	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Marco Van Hees in Table 35. (2735/2) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Marco Van Hees on the table p. 35. (2735/2) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u149	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 4 by Marco Van Hees in Table 35. (2735/2) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Marco Van Hees on the table p.35. (2735/2) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u150	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Marco Van Hees in table p.35. (2735/2) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Marco Van Hees on the table p.35. (2735/2) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u151	Yes [[22]] Yes No. 105 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Wim Van der Donckt in Table 52. (2735/2) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Wim Van der Donkt on the table p. 52. (2735/2) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u152	Yes 49 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Marco Van Hees in the table p. 52. (2735/2) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Marco Van Hees on the table p. 52. (2735/2) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u153	Yes 23 Yes No. 106 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Marco Van Hees in table p. 56. (2735/2) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Marco Van Hees on the table p. 56. (2735/2) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u154	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Wim Van der Donckt in table p. 56. (2735/2) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Wim Van der Donkt on the table p. 56. (2735/2) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u155	Yes 49 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u156	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u157	Yes 82 Yes Non 23 No. Abstensions 25 Abstentions Total 130 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2021 accounts of the House of Representatives. As a result, the Chamber adopts the accounts 2021 of the Chamber of Representatives. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u158	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u159	Yes 106 Yes Non 23 No. Abstensions 1 Abstentions Total 130 Total As a result, the House adopted the Budget Adjustment 2022 of the House of Representatives. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the budgetary adjustment 2022 of the Chamber of Representatives. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u160	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u161	Yes 82 Yes Non 46 No. Abstensions 2 Abstentions Total 130 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the 2021 accounts for the financing of political parties. Consequently, the Court adopts the 2021 accounts of the financing of the political parties. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u162	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u163	Yes 80 Yes Non 46 No. Abstensions 2 Abstentions Total 128 Total As a result, the House adopted the 2022 budget adjustment for the financing of political parties. Consequently, the Court adopts the budgetary adjustment 2022 of the financing of the political parties. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u164	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u165	Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the Court of Auditors' 2022 budget adjustment. Consequently, the Court of Auditors' budgetary adjustment 2022 is adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u166	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u167	Yes 118 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 130 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2022 budget adjustment of the Constitutional Court. Consequently, the Court adopts the budgetary adjustment 2022 of the Constitutional Court. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u168	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u169	Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2022 budget adjustment of the Supreme Council of Justice. Consequently, the Court adopts the budgetary adjustment 2022 of the Supreme Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u170	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u171	Yes 116 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 128 Total As a result, the House adopted the Budget Adjustment 2022 of the College of Federal Ombudsmen. Consequently, the Court adopts the budgetary adjustment 2022 of the College of Federal Ombudsmen. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u172	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u173	Yes 116 Yes No. [[12]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2022 budget adjustment of the Data Protection Authority. Consequently, the Court adopts the budgetary adjustment 2022 of the Data Protection Authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u174	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u175	Yes 117 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 129 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2022 budget adjustment of the Police Information Review Body. Consequently, the Court adopts the budgetary adjustment 2022 of the Supervisory Body to the police information. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u176	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u177	Yes [[115]] Yes No. [[12]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 127 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2022 budget adjustment of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. Consequently, the Court adopts the budgetary adjustment 2022 of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u178	Vote on Amendment No 8 by Marco Van Hees to Article 2. (2642/7) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Marco Van Hees on Article 2. (2642/7) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u179	Yes [[11]] Yes No. [[114]] No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Marco Van Hees to Article 2. (2642/7) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Marco Van Hees on Article 2. (2642/7) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u180	Yes [[22]] Yes No. 97 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 125 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. The amendment was therefore rejected and the Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Marco Van Hees to insert an article 12/1(n) [[.]] (2642/7) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Marco Van Hees inserting an Article 12/1(n) . (2642/7) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u181	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. The annexed tables, as amended by the Committee, were adopted. The attached tables shall be adopted as amended by the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u182	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u183	Yes [[74]] Yes No. 52 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 128 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u184	Vote on Amendment No 102 by Sander Loones cs to Rule 1.01.2. (2643/22) Vote on Amendment No 102 by Sander Loones cs on Article 1.1.02.(2643/22) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u185	Yes 50 Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 105 by Marco Van Hees to Rule 1.01.2. (2643/22) Vote on Amendment No 105 by Marco Van Hees on article 1.1.02.(2643/22) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u186	Yes [[11]] Yes No. 104 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 106 by Marco Van Hees to Rule 1.01.2. (2643/22) Vote on Amendment No 106 by Marco Van Hees on article 1.1.02.(2643/22) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u187	Yes 23 Yes No. 102 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 110 by Vanessa Matz to Rule 1.01.2. (2643/22) Vote on Amendment No 110 by Vanessa Matz on article 1.1.02.(2643/22) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u188	Yes 52 Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 113 by Vanessa Matz to Rule 1.01.2. (2643/22) Vote on Amendment No 113 by Vanessa Matz on article 1.1.02.( 2643/22 [[)]] Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u189	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 112 by Vanessa Matz to Rule 1.01.2. (2643/22) Vote on Amendment No 112 by Vanessa Matz on article 1.1.02.( 2643/22 [[)]] Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u190	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 101 by Koen Metsu cs to Article 1.01.2. (2643/22) Vote on Amendment No 101 by Koen Metsu cs on article 1.1.02.(2643/22) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u191	Yes 52 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 100 by Sander Loones cs to Rule 1.01.2. (2643/22) Vote on Amendment No 100 by Sander Loones cs on article 1.1.02.(2643/22) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u192	Yes [[37]] Yes No. 91 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 108 by Marco Van Hees to Rule 1.01.2. (2643/22) Vote on Amendment No 108 by Marco Van Hees on article 1.1.02.(2643/22) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u193	Yes 23 Yes No. 104 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 98 by Theo Francken cs to Article 1.01.2. (2643/22) Vote on Amendment No 98 by Theo Francken cs on article 1.1.02.(2643/22) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u194	Yes [[35]] Yes No. 94 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 103 by Wim Van der Donckt cs to Article 1.01.2. (2643/22) Vote on Amendment No 103 by Wim Van der Donkt cs on article 1.1.02.(2643/22) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u195	Yes 50 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 104 by Wim Van der Donckt cs to Article 1.01.2. (2643/22) Vote on Amendment No 104 by Wim Van der Donkt cs on article 1.1.02.( 2643/22 [[)]] Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u196	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 99 by Theo Francken cs to Rule 1.01.2. (2643/22) Vote on Amendment No 99 by Theo Francken cs on article 1.1.02.(2643/22) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u197	Yes [[35]] Yes No. 94 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 107 by Marco Van Hees to Article 1.01.2. (2643/22) Vote on Amendment No 107 by Marco Van Hees on article 1.1.02.(2643/22) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u198	Yes [[29]] Yes No. 96 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 1.01.2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 1.01.2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 111 by Vanessa Matz to insert an Article 2.17.6(n). (2643/22) Vote on Amendment No 111 by Vanessa Matz introducing an article 2.17.6(n).(2643/22) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u199	Yes 52 Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on amendment No 109 by Marco Van Hees to Article 3-01-1. (2643/22) Vote on Amendment No 109 by Marco Van Hees on article 3-01-1. (2643/22) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u200	Yes 23 Yes No. 106 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3-01-1 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3-01-1 was adopted. The annexed tables, as amended by the Committee, were adopted. The attached tables shall be adopted as amended by the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u201	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u202	Yes 76 Yes No. 52 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 130 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u203	Vote on Amendment No 20 by Kathleen Depoorter cs at request a), iii. (2259/6) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Kathleen Depooster cs on request (a) (iii. (2259/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u204	Yes 44 Yes No. [[85]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u205	Madam President, some of my group's colleagues were mistaken and voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u206	It's been noted. Vote on Amendment No 21 by Catherine Fonck to insert a request (a), v. (n). (2259/6) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Catherine Fonck to insert an application a), v. (n). (2259/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u207	Yes [[29]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 25 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 19 by Kathleen Depoorter cs to insert a request (c), v. (n). (2259/6) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Kathleen Depoorter cs to insert a request c), v. (n). (2259/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u208	Yes [[37]] Yes No. 88 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u209	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u210	Yes 106 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 130 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u211	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u212	Yes 94 Yes No. [[22]] No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 129 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u213	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u214	Yes 105 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip190x.u215	We must approve the agenda for the meeting on 30 June 2022. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the meeting of 30 June 2022. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, June 30, 2022, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 30 June 2022 at 2.15 p.m.
