ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u1	Colleagues, our agenda normally starts with a topical debate on judicial expertise.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u2	Madam President, I have a habit of being collegial. Several colleagues are not yet present. I therefore propose that you give me the floor for an oral question which is not linked to any of my colleagues' questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u3	Madam President, you will hear that I am still struggling with voting problems. I assume that the written question will be included in the report if I refer to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u4	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u5	Madam President, Minister, I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u6	Mrs Dillen, the spirit of cooperation between the Strong House maintains a coherent vision for a transition home, as developed in the framework of the pilot project aimed at strengthening active citizenship of detainees. Because of their active role in the program the residents of a transition house are called participants. The concept uses three pillars to support participants, namely strength, recovery and connection. In accordance with the force-oriented methodology, in different phases, specific work is carried out around ten domains of life. From a recovery perspective, work is always done around four connections, being the participant himself, the victim, the social network and society. However, in addition to the individual strength of the participants in strength- and recovery-oriented work, the connection between people is also central. Participants learn to live together, communicate and deal with problems and conflicts through group-oriented working in the collectivity. As for your second question, the team of the transition house consists of a multidisciplinary team of eleven employees: seven living coaches, three strength coaches and one coordinator. It is a team in which different psychosocial education backgrounds and expertises are combined, including psychologists, orthopedagogists and criminologists. In the transition house there is at least one life coach present 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, who supports living together and has the task of following the daily course of events in the transition house. Force coaches then re-launch on power and recovery-oriented trajectories. Each participant has an individually defined strength- and recovery-oriented trajectory. The strength coaches assist the participants and act as coach, guide and mediator. It focuses on the talents, without denying the risks, and provides guidance to the existing care, assistance and services. Each power coach accompanies five participants in the transition house and succeeds one to three people in a follow-up course. As for your third question, the penitentiary administration, together with the team of the transition house, urges the participants to prepare the transition house efficiently. Since the start, 60 prisoners have been placed in the transition house of Mechelen. Inmates who are no longer staying there have been there for an average of 192.4 days, so just over half a year. As far as your fourth question is concerned, 38 participants were already able to leave the transition house in a positive way. 32 of them are under electronic supervision, while 4 were released on parole and 2 had reached the end of their sentence. In addition, 12 participants were sent back to prison. One of them himself indicated that the regime was not suitable for him. As for your fifth question, about the modality of the execution of the sentence following a stay in a transition house is decided by the SURB. The guidance for e.g. electronic surveillance or conditional release is provided by the courthouse, where a judicial assistant is designated to further follow the conditions of the convicted person. The transition house no longer plays a formal role in the supervision after the stay. However, in order to ensure that the transition to the outside takes place as far as possible and with the necessary care, participants can use an aftercare course, in the form of visits to the transition house and interviews with the coaches. The duration and frequency of this are determined by the individual need. These moments are always recorded in the case of electronic surveillance in consultation with the judicial assistants. You also asked about the cost. During the pilot project, a participant cost the transition house 166.25 euros per day. This means that the entire pilot project cost €2,274,300 between 1 September 2019 and the end of February of this year. By comparison, in a classic prison, the average cost per day is 200 to 250 euros. In order to be admitted as a participant, five conditions must be met. One must be 18 months after the conditional release period. In addition, one must have the ability to live in community. There must also be no counter-instructions that we cannot manage with special conditions. The prisoner must also agree in writing to the location plan and the internal rules. The power of attribution and withdrawal belongs to the detention management service. Only the warden can initiate a placement request. Before the director transfers the final site plan for decision to the Board of Detention Management, an intake interview will take place between the interested prisoner and coaches of the transition house. For example, the prisoner knows what to expect or not, should he be admitted. Finally, after the pilot project, a call was launched in the Belgian Official Journal. The operation was extended to three years. This allowed the transition house in Mechelen to continue. The transition house of Enghien was taken over by a new operator and the preparation of the opening is ongoing. A file about a third, new transition house will soon be submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval. During the next month we plan to launch a new call inviting organisations to submit a dossier. Unlike the previous call, we will not close it until 100 places have been filled. There's still no visual on the location of the new transition houses. However, we are striving for a balanced geographical distribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your very detailed reply. You went a little too fast, though. How many people have returned to prison because they did not think the regime was appropriate?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u8	Mrs Dillen, 38 involved have left the transition house in a positive way and 12 participants have been sent back to prison. Of those 12 involved, one person himself indicated that the regime was not suitable for him.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u9	Minister, 12 people are still quite a number of them. However, if they themselves realise that the regime is not suitable for them, that says a lot about their self-knowledge. In your answer to my seventh question, you said that regardless of the facts for which someone has been convicted, that person may be eligible if he fulfils the five conditions you have listed. I am pleased to note that quite a few positive results have also been achieved. You can take care of me here and you can, of course, check it out, but I have always said that someone who is in prison must be properly supervised, especially with a view to returning to society. Releasing someone in society without any kind of guidance is not the best solution. As the positive testimonies of the pilot project in Mechelen now show, positive results can be achieved through such a transition house for a number of detainees. I'm glad to hear that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u10	Madam President, Minister, the Latest News recently went undercover and discovered how the desire for more and more followers and likes can end up in sexual exploitation. On Instagram, teenage girls increasingly fall prey to so-called shout-out pages that, in exchange for little cover-up photos, promote their profile, which can then lead to exploitation. In the Netherlands, there has recently been a use of decoy profiles in this struggle through the virtual creation of a minor. I refer to a particularly interesting letter dated 17 December 2021, entitled "Investigation and Persecution Trafficking in Human Beings 2021', in which Ankie Broekers-Knol, the Dutch State Secretary for Justice and Security, informs the Dutch Chamber and thereby distinguishes between, on the one hand, decoy profiles for the approach of human being in human beings........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Especially the first form seems to have potential. As regards decoy profiles in dealing with exploiters and traffickers - Variant 1 thus - she referred to a recent trial and noted that, although the defendant was acquitted in that particular case, the case law had basically confirmed that the use of decoy profiles under specific circumstances could contribute to the fight against trafficking in human beings. This has also been confirmed by the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, and decoy profiles can now also be used as a means of detection, subject to a number of conditions. The Dutch State Secretary also pointed - quite rightly - to the preventive effect of the use of locus profiles. Firstly, do you consider, in principle, that decoy profiles can also be an important added value in Belgium in the fight against sexual exploitation and trafficking in human beings - Variant 1, therefore, focusing on the shout-out pages, for example? Secondly, do you believe that current Belgian law makes it possible to use decoy profiles in the fight against traffickers, once again Variant 1? Thirdly, if you consider that this approach would provide an important added value, and if your analysis shows that the current Belgian legislation is not sufficient, will you take an initiative? Finally, if you are convinced and if the current Belgian legislation would suffice, will you take an initiative to put this into practice, for example by developing standard modules with minimum conditions so that we are also inclined to take the next step on the ground? Thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u11	Mr Segers, I have read with some consternation the undercover investigation of the Latest News. They have also worked closely with Child Focus for this purpose. It is partly thanks to them that this underexposed phenomenon has surfaced. Minors, often girls, who are pushed through a feed news overview to post sexually tinted images of themselves online, run a major risk of being sexually exploited. Groomers, older men who lure underage girls online for a sexually tinted encounter, find their way to Instagram. I immediately contacted Meta, the parent company of Instagam, as well as Child Focus, for consultation. Safety teams will delete highly unwanted images after reporting, but I agree with you that much more proactive action is needed. Lock profiles are indeed an example of such a possible good proactive approach. I would also like to stress the importance of prevention. Children should be reminded of the dangers of sharing photos on Instagram. Young people must learn to deal with their sexual development, especially in relation to social media. According to my information, the technique of deploying any decoy profiles is not yet used in our country in this context. You know the caution in using such techniques. After all, we must not end up in situations of provocation of crime, which is prohibited in our country. This matter has not yet been discussed at the level of the Public Prosecutor's Office. In order to monitor the correct chronology, it seems advisable to consult with Meta first. Then we can look at whether and what initiatives might be called for. So this is being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your active attitude, because trafficking in human beings is an absolute policy priority. That's what the coalition agreement says. It must not only be on paper, but it must also be in the facts. For a number of years now, we have seen a drop in the number of police findings and an increase in the number of dismissals year after year. We can't get minors on the radar at all. In addition, there is also the evolution towards an online reality at all stages of human trafficking, from recruitment to exploitation. We are increasingly seeing that everyone is a potential victim because of the proximity, the ubiquitous presence of the Internet. The National Security Plan also states that there is more hidden sexual exploitation than before, that this has been reinforced by corona, that there are fewer findings. In the National Security Plan this trend is noted, but no solutions are proposed. If trafficking in human beings changes shape, then our fight against this must also be followed. The journalist of Het Laatste Nieuws has given an insight into what is really happening. What that journalist can do, the police and the courts have to do even better. Of course, it is wonderful that this journalist has ensured that these accounts were suspended via a virtual profile, but the police can ensure that the man behind the profile is arrested, that exploitation stops structurally, that a possible network is rolled up. The intention must be to get human trafficking on the radar. You rightly say that there should be no entrapment, but I refer to what the Dutch court has said on this matter. When the police deploy a decoy profile, this should not lead the suspect to further acts than his pre-determined intent, because there is then an entrapment by the police. In principle, the court has accepted it, but I share your concern that we should be careful with this. Hence my questions to you to work out a certain standard module, so that people are also inclined to use this new technique on the ground. What can be done in the Netherlands should also be possible in Belgium, especially in view of the great preventive effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u13	I refer to my written preparation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u14	Mrs. Dillen, I'm giving you an update. As you know, a first meeting with the experts took place on 9 December 2021. A second consultation session was held on 15 March 2022, after all the notes and proposals that my policy cell received were analysed in that context. The most interesting elements selected from these consultations were explained, discussed and refined. Certain elements were not withheld or had to be further investigated. The drafting of the text has already been started for those parts which will certainly be taken into account. The aim is to finalise the text as soon as possible, once all the buttons are finally cut. Afterwards, the text will first be reviewed by the experts and then discussed with stakeholders. In reply to your second question, I would like to say that, in cooperation with the bailiffs, a number of slopes are being discussed which should lead to a reduction in recovery costs. In the context of the reform of the statute of bailiffs, which is another project, a solution is being worked out to reform the rates for bailiffs' documents laid down in the Royal Decree of 30 November 1976. We did the same for the notaries, as you know. In addition to these measures, we have in mind another set of measures aimed at early detection of insolvency and at reducing recovery costs for debtors. With a view to the early detection of insolvency, efforts are being made to optimize or improve the famous Central file of reports of seizure, delegation, transfer and collective debt settlement and protest*, with a view to faster intervention in the event of problems. In addition, we want to reduce costs for people facing different debts and therefore having to pay multiple execution costs. This should be avoided as far as possible. However, a real reduction in implementation costs requires further thought to find solutions that take into account all the situations that may arise in the implementation process. No proposal received by my policy cell provides a clear answer to that. Your third question. I would like to stress that I am doing everything I can to make progress on the dossier as quickly as possible. Although the many proposals often contain good elements, they usually do not offer a ready-made solution and sometimes there are disadvantages. This is also apparent from the feedback given by various experts who are not in line with the same approach on a number of issues. It is important to strike a good balance, in which all parties can agree and which also really benefits the citizens. When we come to the Committee on Justice with proposals, I must honestly say that we do not yet have a legislative text. The discussions are ongoing and we have a number of ideas that are being tested. I repeat, however, that some experts sometimes differ. I hope, quite frankly, that I can have an IKW by the summer, and then come to Parliament with the proposals in the autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u15	Minister, I understand that this is not a simple dossier. There are many aspects to this matter. In any case, your coalition agreement contains the promise to put an end to the 'debt industry', as mentioned in the agreement. It is a fact that a limited number of debt collection agencies and bailiffs are not all making large sums of money on the hood of people in debt for the sake of clarity. That is something that needs to be contained. I would urge you to step up your efforts and, hopefully, in the autumn, provide the committee with texts, because the discussion in this committee will also take some time. There has recently been a hearing in Parliament on this issue, among other things. Representatives of the OMCW of Antwerp were present who worked with the bailiffs in the pilot project of the communication platform to put the file on hold. They were particularly positive about that pilot project in Antwerp and his requesting party to roll it out throughout the country. According to them, in most cases it produces positive results. Of course, the debtor must also cooperate, which is not always evident in practice, but that is another story. I therefore wish you every success and hope that we will receive your texts very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u16	I refer again to my question, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u17	Madam President, Minister, the forensic doctors are sounding the alarm. The Council of Europe recommends that we do an autopsy in 10% of deaths. We are between 1 and 2 per cent. "Perfect crime exists in Belgium only by default from the public authorities," said Dr. Philippe Boxho, former French-speaking vice-president and spokesperson of the Order of Physicians, in the newspaper Le Soir. He denounces the lack of resources available to forensic doctors, to the extent that the students do not want to work for justice, and that the overload of work pushed Dr. Boxho to resign in April. The forensic institute in Liège had to threaten the Ministry of Justice with prosecution in order for it to repay a share of the arrears. What an absurd situation, Minister! Forensic doctors must have their expenses approved by the investigating judges or prosecutors of the King, but they have many other tasks. Magistrates and forensic doctors are forced to work in untenable conditions. This results in losses of money for forensic doctors, who are not reimbursed for advanced costs, but also for less good service in the light of European objectives. By way of comparison, the autopsy rate would be around 8% in Germany, 12% in the United States and 24% in England, and even 30% to 50% in Scandinavian countries. It is estimated that 15% of the deaths declared natural in Belgium would not be natural. This represents 75 crimes per year that are not even reported as such. The experts estimate that an annual budget of EUR 20 million would be needed to put an end to it. Minister, the question is therefore very simple. Are you going to put those $20 million on the table to allow forensic doctors to do their job and to achieve, at a minimum, this 10% autopsy rate?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u18	Madam President, Minister, I have also read the article in Le Soir carefully. You will find by hearing my question that I did not voluntarily choose to dwell on the crimes that there is no evidence that these are really crimes. Finally, there are rumours that 75 crimes per year are not potentially elucidated in Belgium when no one really knows. This is an unhealthy way of doing things. In addition, it may have defyed the exit and posture of some while these rumours are not based on any concrete facts. On the other hand, one thing is certain: there is a real chronic underfunding of the auxiliaries of justice. This has also been seen in the past for doctors who practice in prison, etc. There are significant backlogs in pay, increased red tape, and an overload of work. All these elements make the function complicated and complex, difficult to perform and much less attractive, because it is, like other sectors, underfunded. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you concrete and factual questions. So, could you tell me what financial resources will be released quickly in order to eliminate the arrears in question? Are there any measures in place to improve the status and profession of judicial expert? Is administrative simplification on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u19	Mr Minister, I obviously have the same news readings as my colleagues. The fact that Europe is advocating an autopsy for at least 10% of deaths and that Belgium is only able to make 1% or 2% of deaths raises questions. I will not draw any more conclusions than my colleague Mr Aouasti on the other figures put forward by the interviewee, but there is clearly a problem. I wish to extend this problem to all judicial experts in criminal matters, who face a disheartening administrative burden, an increased workload and, above all, numerous arrears in payment. It has been a long time since these experts sounded the alarm and it is a fact that public disinvestment and lack of consideration for judicial experts generate a certain degree of impunity. You yourself are not insensitive to this situation and have already identified this issue in your previous policy note. In particular, you announced the immediate payment of judicial experts, the reform of the system of judicial experts in terms of tariffs and administrative procedures. Minister, what are you doing with the measures announced in your October 2021 Policy Note? Has the resolution of arrears, as a matter of priority, been achieved? What are the status and conclusions, if available, of the external audit of tax and liquidation offices? Have the employees dedicated to the clearance of this backlog been hired? Since when? And how many are there? More generally, what follow-up do you follow up on the situation of judicial experts and, in particular, forensic doctors? Finally, according to the director of the Forensic Institute of the University of Liège, no student envisages the career as a medical examiner because the situation is precarious. What measures are in place to prevent a potential shortage of forensic doctors and forensic experts?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u20	Madam Chair, Minister, sometimes a strangulation is made up by hanging or a murder becomes an accident because we want to hide it. These are among many ways of trying to escape justice, and some unfortunately resort to it. Despite the quality of our police officers, this kind of trick can only be thwarted by forensic doctors in the context of judicial expertise and saying that, I am just pushing an open door as the Council of Europe recommends that at least 10% of deaths be autopsied in order to fight crime at best. Despite this common-sense recommendation, Belgium would be only 1% or 2% at best. Why? First of all, it must be recognized that the mentality in our country is not at a systematic autopsy, as is the case in Germany, where 12% of the deceased are self-employed, and this figure may even rise to 50% in Scandinavian countries. Secondly, and this is more worrying, it is the lack of resources of the medical and legal institutes. For example, the Liège Institute suffers from arrears of payment from the Minister of Justice. The lack is such that if an indispensable machine for experts fails, it cannot be replaced. This lack of resources has not only short-term consequences. In the long term, there is a risk of a lack of arms in the expert sector. By seeing the current working conditions, students from their amphitheatres already decide to move to other fields of medicine. According to a study conducted by Dr. Jean-Pol Beauthier and Professor Wim Van de Voorde, at least 75 crimes would escape the attention of the judiciary for lack of legal expertise. In Belgium, the perfect crime exists only because of perhaps the weakness of the public authorities and this is obviously intolerable! In 2012, however, Professor Jacques Brochi, a valuable Liberal and honorary president of our Senate, introduced a bill providing for a more systematic presence of an expert when a death may seem suspicious. This excellent bill has never been passed, but it still exists. So what resources can be allocated to relieve medical and legal institutions of their financial problems? Are you considering a campaign to recruit medical experts for the Department of Justice as you have done for the recruitment of magistrates and criminologists, for example? Are you prepared to translate the post-mortem bill into a bill and bring it before the government and Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I'll give you a consolidated answer. First of all, this problem does not date back to yesterday. Already in 2013, at a symposium on forensic medicine organized by the Royal Society of Forensic Medicine of Belgium, it was pointed out that about 70 suspicious deaths go unnoticed each year. Mrs Marghem referred in that connection to a bill of that time. First of all, I would like to point out that when a death occurs, it is the task of the first doctor present, often a house doctor, to assess whether it is a non-natural and therefore a suspicious death. When the assessment is affirmative, the parquet will be contacted and a stinging will be done by the laboratory for scientific and technical police and the law healer. The lab can do an initial trace examination at the possible scene of the crime, and the law doctor can already perform a first and superficial external examination of the body. In consultation and after consultation with the law doctor and the lab, the court will then determine whether further investigation is appropriate. The most obvious investigation to determine the correct cause of death is, of course, an autopsy, an internal review. Unfortunately, the so-called black figure of undetected murders is largely due to an erroneous initial assessment of death and not to budgetary reasons. In the procedure I have just described, there is no budgetary control, either by the general practitioner or by the prosecutor. I refer to the circular 1/2016 of the Attorney General of Antwerp on the investigation and management of the place of the offence in case of a violent or serious offence. This circular contains specific instructions at the level of the jurisdiction to conduct an in-depth investigation in case of suspicious death. Of course, the instructions of justice do not extend to general practitioners. In fact, the intention at the time was to extend the application of these directives from the level of jurisdiction to the national level in 2015, but this was never done. Perhaps it is time to review this national implementation. It is true, and that is a problem that I do not want to avoid, that there have been fewer and fewer law doctors in recent years. There are many reasons for this, such as the fact that the profession has irregular hours and requires long training, with an education of no less than 11 years, but of course I am also aware of the problem of remuneration and late payment periods. Colleagues, there is no specific budget allocated to forensic experts. There is only one general budget for legal costs in criminal cases, which is used for all costs incurred by experts in criminal cases, including forensic experts. The total budget for justice costs is EUR 103 million for this year. For the record, we do not refuse to pay for such investigations because of a lack of resources. If there are additional costs, we will also pay them. In order to make the position of forensic expert more attractive, I am examining how we could adjust the rates in addition to the existing annual indexation. As regards the late payments, to which Mr Vajda, for example, is asking, I have already mentioned in the Committee on Justice that this is one of my most important to dos for 2022. The reality is that today only 30% of the performance earners are paid within 30 days. By the end of this year, that should be remarkably better. In order to achieve this, we are launching the Just Invoice application this summer, so that the cost states of the law doctors have a better and faster follow-up. The whole end-to-end process of court fees is currently being mapped with a view to full digital power. I also read that this is perceived as an unnecessary administrative burden, but the new procedure was based on the principles of budgetary and accounting processes as described in the Act of 22 May 2003, which of course also applies to justice and is controlled by the Court of Auditors. Currently, some 30 invoices, for an amount of around EUR 20 000, are known in the accounting system and pending payment. The vast majority of these invoices consist of recent invoices dating from March and April 2022. These are statements of costs that have been submitted to the various tax offices. I would like to give a good example of the provinces of Limburg and West Flanders, where the cost statement paid to the competent authority is paid on average within seven days. There are very large differences between the valuation firms. Mrs Marghem, as far as recruitment is concerned, it must be borne in mind that the SPF Justice does not recruit forensic experts as it does for magistrates. A forensic expert always acts as an independent judicial expert or on behalf of an independent body of the State, such as a hospital. In order to carry out forensic autopsy, forensic experts must be registered in the national register of forensic experts and sworn translators and interpreters. In order to be entered in the registers of judicial experts as forensic experts, the doctors concerned must prove that they have the necessary training and legal knowledge. There are currently 40 doctors registered in the national registry who are specialized in the field of forensic medicine, and particularly in autopsy. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the elements of the answer I can give you as Minister of Justice. I am aware of the importance of adequate and well-educated law doctors and of good laboratories for trace and other research at crime scenes. What I know is that to eliminate this black figure, we need not only forensic doctors, but also well-trained general practitioners, capable of detecting possible signs of non-natural death. I am prepared to discuss the initiatives of this hemisphere with my colleague from Public Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u22	Minister, I understand what you are saying in terms of late payment. It appears that delays that existed at some point do not exist to date. This is a good thing and I will check in order to adapt the premises of my reasoning to the reality of today. Of course, you don't say when they're paid. You're talking about fairly recent bills, but you don't know when they'll be paid. Second, the term "recruit" was not used in the symbolic sense of saying that a boss recruits employees. It is obvious that these people practice a liberal profession independently and must remain in that status. It is voluntary or not – obviously, the profession of judicial expert does not attract much – whether they register in this national register. That is the problem. So do not see in the term "recruiting", a misconception of the organisation as it stands today and always, but rather a desire to encourage you to make the profession attractive, to make it interesting to young medical graduates who, therefore, could render a service to justice by sharing their skills acquired during their studies. With respect to the bill, I did not hear that you wanted to take it and turn it into a bill. I will therefore allow myself to resubmit it, which will allow us, when we consider the priority bills, to debate them in committee in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u23	Minister, I am pleased that you stress the importance of well-educated lawmakers. It is also important to encourage young doctors to choose this specialization, although frankly I was shocked when you said that the course lasts eleven years. There must be adequate fees for this, otherwise few young doctors will choose to train a law doctor, as they earn a decent living in other specializations. This problem is indeed not new and has been dragging on for years. In the media we hear that according to specialists about 15% of the so-called naturally declared deaths that would not actually be, so it is a problem that needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u24	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u25	Thank you to the Minister for his answers. It is always said – and this becomes a habit – that a minister inherits the situation of his predecessor and that he will also leave a legacy to his successor. As far as payment arrears are concerned, I have taken note of the ongoing efforts. However, I note that there is no specific budget. Perhaps a subsection should be added to the Justice budget to clarify that parts of the budget should be devoted to these independent collaborators of justice. Yesterday, we spoke in the Justice Committee about the attractiveness of the office of magistrate. It's a construction site you're taking with you. Today, perhaps we must start a new project on the attractiveness of the position of forensic expert and criminal expert. I know that you are not sluggish in your efforts and that you are preparing a lot of work in this Parliament. I wish you good luck in this one too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u26	Debates of the European Parliament 55026898C by Mrs Matz will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u27	Minister, in February, the mayor of Antwerp was forced to take a decision setting the maximum capacity for the Antwerp detention centre. Although the alarm bell was often sound and strikes had broken out because of the overpopulation, the problem was not resolved. Following the advice of the security services and health services, the mayor decided that no more than 680 prisoners could be detained from 1 May and no more than 660 prisoners from 1 July. Even if there is still an overpopulation of 50%, it should allow prison staff to work in safe conditions. On 9 March I already asked you a question, Minister, and you replied to me that there were 819 prisoners at that time, a number which would fall by 39 by 1 May. Can you tell me how many prisoners are currently staying in the arrest house on the Begijnenstraat in Antwerp? Has the number decreased by now? How did you achieve that? Should the number not have been reduced, do you have a plan to achieve this goal and reduce the number of prisoners to 680 and then 660 by 1 July?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u28	In the Antwerp prison there are currently 643 male and 44 female prisoners, i.e. a total of 7 prisoners above the norm. The decrease is due to transfers from the prison from Antwerp to other prisons. As I have explained on several occasions, several prisons have temporarily added bunk beds to accommodate the extra prisoners. The expansion of the capacity of the prisons, in line with the master plan, will have a beneficial impact, including on the prison of Antwerp. In addition, legal adjustments are being prepared to facilitate entry and exit. After the opening of the prisons of Haren and Dendermonde, which provide an additional capacity of 382 places, there is also the temporary capacity expansion of 350 places by keeping part of the Sint-Gillis prison and the old prison of Dendermonde open longer. The figures are constantly being followed up and we are doing our utmost to reach the figure of 680. I believe there were 701 inmates last night and 687 today. As has been said, we follow the situation closely every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u29	Thank you for your answer. That is indeed a nice reduction in one day. If that were the case every day, it would be a good thing, but unfortunately that is not the case. You refer to the prisons of Haren and Dendermonde, and the new prisons that are about to open, but that is not, of course, by 1 July. So you can expect a new demand on the situation around 1 July.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u30	I have already asked you questions on this subject, Minister. The drug-use area that people want to open in Brussels will ensure that people in the area are carrying drugs in their pockets. That's actually illegal. The public prosecutor would have issued a letter stating that there would be no prosecution for any infringement of the drug law in the use area and the area of tolerance surrounding it. You know that this is strictly against the legislation in force, but it is not the case with a letter. When I asked you that question earlier, you referred me to the court because it concerns local guidelines. I've turned to the King's Attorney, but I haven't received an answer from the court. However, as a representative of the people, I think it is important to keep abreast of the policy of persecution. I believe that I should also be able to exercise my right of control here, especially when there is a deviation from existing legislation by means of transmissive letters. That's what happens here with that drug-use facility. That is why I ask you to deliver this letter to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u31	Colleague, criminal policy is described primarily in the various circulars of the College of Attorneys General, available on the website of the Public Prosecutor's Office. So those letters are freely accessible. The local guidelines issued by local prosecutors concern the specific arrangements between the local prosecutor and the police services of the district. These Directives shall not be published. To give you another example, the letter from the Antwerp Public Prosecutor's Office of September 2013 on tackling drug users and drug owners in public space is not published either. As a result of your question, I have explicitly turned to the competent Attorney General. He confirmed to me that the non-publication of such letters implies that they are not communicated to Parliament. The fact that I cannot deliver this letter to you is therefore not a question of disrespect for your work as a Member of Parliament, but of being straightforward in the context of criminal policy, as determined by the prosecution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u32	I am particularly sorry, Minister. The comparison with Antwerp is not entirely valid. In Antwerp there has been a gap in the legislation, which actually makes it possible. This is a letter which is contrary to the law. We are the legislature, you belong to the executive and we also have the judiciary. So there is a separation of powers. However, I think that we should be able to check the legislation. In fact, we are very explicitly deviating from the legislation that has been made and we must not know in what way. So we are now walking around with drugs, we are using drugs, which is really not allowed, but we are dealing with them by means of letters of conversion. I don't think that's okay and I'm very sorry. I note that it's not unwillingness from your cabinet, but I don't think it's possible. It is totally wrong to believe that legislation which has been adopted here even a while ago can change without the legislator being able to see what happens to it. I believe that this goes against the right of control we have. That's a very bad practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u33	Minister, in the event of an incident, especially in vice cases, we are all outraged, in this house, but also in the newspapers. The newspapers write more easily about this than the fact that punishment is suspended. A vice fact whose punishment is not high enough will get a title on the front page. In vice facts and rapes, the things that come up are actually just a small number of effective rapes. Very often, these cases are not reported. There is a very large dark number, with 9 declarations a day representing only 10% of the actual victims who dare to go to the police. That means about 90 rapes a day would happen. That is almost another kind of epidemic and we cannot find a solution. During the Easter holidays, one of these cases came up again. A man who was sentenced to 9 years in prison in 2010 served his sentence in full, which is already handsome, and was released without conditions. A year and a half after his release, he was once again suspected of similar facts. We cannot judge that specific dossier or take a stand on it. The N-VA is in favour of the posting of serious morals, even after the end of the sentence. So are you in your announcements, but not in your actions. After all, our amendments, even adapted to what you said in committee, are still being voted out by this Chamber. There is a solution in the form of posting to follow up on such a person. This is where the newspapers said it's impossible for this man not to be followed. Even the lawyers called this. At that time, you easily replied that you should not say anything through the separation of powers. However, you could have said that there are solutions to this and that you would be working on it as a minister. Counselor Walter Damen, the victim's lawyer, has suggested that the criminal court should be given the power to appoint a college of psychiatrists. That can assess the likelihood of recurrence. If it is large, there could possibly be an internment. That is a very different and certainly not an obvious slope. I am therefore curious to hear your views on this suggestion, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u34	Mrs De Wit, like you, we are looking for solutions to better succeed those convicted who end sentences. In consultation with experts, we analyse all options. This is a complex debate, because we must remain within the limits of justice and the European treaties. Master Damen's suggestion is valuable, but we've already presented it to the experts. They argue that internment is only possible if the person concerned is or becomes insanityable during his or her detention. However, we will continue to look for ways to provide the best possible response to this problem. There is no zero risk, and we will never be able to achieve it. Thinking that there will never be such a case again is not true, however good the legislation may be. A second comment is that we will not get there with a law alone. We need to focus on practical implementation, because we cannot simply lock up all the convicted people and throw away the key. A forensic care circuit must be developed and invested in it. Then we are talking about many tens of millions of euros. In this way, prisoners can receive tailor-made treatment both during and after detention, which seriously reduces the risk of recidivism. The responsibility of that forensic care circuit lies not so much with the Justice Department, but with Health and the Länder. Don't worry, initiatives have been taken for several months. That is now being worked on. We hope to reach an agreement with our colleagues, knowing that this will require serious investment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u35	I understand, Minister, that this problem cannot be solved simply by means of legislation. We know that, too. Without legislation that would allow the field of work to begin to work out, it will be difficult to make this happen, unless it is also the case that transmissive letters are made to deviate from other legislation. Well, I hope we get to see those letters. Mr Minister, we must be able to make something possible in terms of accountability and internment. It's really time to work on partial insanity. The Netherlands does the same. That's a gradual approach. We must dare to look at that slope and look at what is an appropriate approach for a person so that, even after the end of the sentence, a person who is dangerous and at high risk is not sent back into society without any follow-up and can make new victims. Otherwise, we can continue to cry out on the stage and remain indignant. However, it is our duty to try to do something about it. Shall we solve every case? We should not be under this illusion. You're right about that. However, we must at least set out the ambition to avoid as many risks as possible. I therefore expect you, Members and myself to have the necessary creativity to resolve this. The provision is a possibility; partial insanity is a solution. In this way the bridge to the internment can be struck, in order to ensure that such a person does not just walk free, without being followed up. After all, explain that to new victims: we could not do it. We cannot accept this, and we cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u36	Madam President, my colleague Ortwin Depoortere had actually asked Minister Verlinden because it is a bit of a different perspective. For the rest, however, it is about the same thing. The services seem to have linked the question to this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u37	I also refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u38	Mr Boukili is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u39	Madam President, Minister, on the occasion of the Easter weekend, it was a strange bell sound that was heard in the judicial district of Hal-Vilvorde. Indeed, the Hal-Vilvorde prosecutor's office has decided not to process the fraud files any more. Or, more specifically, the prosecution will no longer take up cases of fraud whose financial damage is less than EUR 10 000 and whose alleged perpetrators could not be apprehended in Belgium. This directive is already applicable in the judicial police. From now on, police officers will receive a complaint knowing that it will not lead to any judicial action. We can imagine without difficulty the motivation of our police officers and the transformation of the police station into a gas factory that could result, not to mention the reaction of the victims who will be denied justice to them, especially those who consider that 10,000 euros is already a lot. The decision is justified by the Public Prosecutor's Office because of the lack of resources and staff, not only within the Public Prosecutor's Office but also within the ranks of the police. The bells rang but did not collect eggs, just the same explanations to not say the same excuse about the usual flaws of justice. Minister, what do you think of this decision of the Hal-Vilvorde Public Prosecutor's Office? [[Given its geographical location close to Brussels, a metropolis open and connected to the rest of the world, but also the narrowness of Belgian territory, is this decision not an incentive to commit a scam - I go a little far - of a smaller scale, then to leave the territory with the assurance that it will not be pursued, in other words, to save the files?]] In the face of this situation, do you have any reserves of emergency personnel to deploy on the spot, even temporarily, to reverse the decision of the Public Prosecutor's Office and to remedy in practice the situation he is experiencing? This, of course, awaits lasting and structural solutions. Unfortunately, the prosecutor's office and the police in Hal-Vilvorde are no exceptions or isolated cases. Do you therefore know whether decisions of the same order are taken or will be taken by other prosecutors? I am thinking in particular of those in the border areas, particularly in Tournai. Investigations abroad of offences worth less than 10 000 euros would rarely be effective. Can you engage with our European and international partners to increase the effectiveness and effectiveness of prosecutions? Crime, in fact, must not pay in Belgium or elsewhere!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u40	Colleagues, media coverage on the policy of investigating the facts of scams has come after the dissemination of information from the King's Attorney of Halle-Vilvoorde to the federal and local police. Such information is in accordance with Article 151 of the Constitution, which provides that criminal law policy is determined by the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is important for us to be able to explain this information correctly. What are the concrete guidelines? The circular 2021/03 on the policy sheet on prevention code 20 aims to orient the investigatory capacity towards those investigations in which the clarification of the facts and the prosecution of the suspects is possible. People want to use the investigative capacity smartly, namely when there is a chance of success. This is called detective management, with the aim of using existing capacity as efficiently and effectively as possible according to a number of criteria, based on the experience gained in previous investigations. It is important to note that phishing is often a form of internationally organised crime, where the perpetrators or organisers are often abroad, which can hypothesize successful detection and prosecution. That is not a choice, it is unfortunately the reality. In this context, the letter provides that no further investigation will be carried out for certain types of fraud under certain conditions. I am referring more precisely to cases which are not connected with Belgium and for which only an investigation abroad is possible. For example, for a foreign account number, no investigation is ordered by the Office when the damage amounts to less than EUR 10 000. In this case, the file is kept by the police for an ex officio police investigation (EPO). This means that the facts are included in a PV, but that the PV is not subject to prosecution. As part of an EPO, the police service can conduct limited investigations. If the damage exceeds EUR 10 000, in cases also without any connection with Belgium, the police will submit the case to the Public Prosecutor's Office in the form of a standard report. The competent prosecutor will then decide, depending on the country to which the investigation relates, on the relevance of a European investigation decision and a request for legal aid in order to identify and interview the account holder. The amount of EUR 10 000 mentioned is indicative and is based on the experience gained during the surveys. If the damage is less, but there is a chance of recovering that amount, the prosecution will conduct an investigation. What preceded this letter? The problem was that the policy orientations of the instructions on fraud investigations were dispersed in various other directives, both local and national. This led to a lack of uniformity in the decisions taken by judges. With this letter, the King's Attorney wishes to offer more uniformity and legal certainty and to obtain a better view of where the detective capacity is going, both at the level of the public prosecutor and at the level of the police. This control does not affect the individual discretion of each magistrate in each file, it is a matter of beacons. A magistrate may deviate in any file, whether or not after consultation with the Chief of Staff. The police can also contact the court for other adapted guidelines for any file in which they consider it useful or deemed necessary. In the past, much more was worked with amounts, often only with the amount of the disadvantage as a decisive factor in the decision of the public prosecutor on further investigation. Now the disadvantage is an indicator, just like other elements. These directives have been drawn up after analysis of the degree of clarification for various scams and after analysis of the success factors in order to clarify the crime. The links with our country are, of course, important at this level. The amount of injury is only a limited indicator of the possibilities for clarification. That is why, as I said, this amount is only indicative, after consultation with the police, the judges concerned and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Several zonal security councils set out the public prosecutor's vision and stressed the importance of prevention. Fourthly, given the scale and by definition international nature of the phenomenon, smart detectives through detective management are a necessity. There is no need to always require a number of standard investigative acts for each case, although the Prosecutor's Office knows in advance that they will not succeed and that they will mobilize investigative capacity. Fifth, the APO-BP, the Official Police Investigation Service, is regulated nationally by a debrief from the College of Attorneys General. For example, the vast majority of PVs on home burglaries, where the investigation possibilities are exhausted and no unsub could be identified, are kept with the police. The advantage is that the parquet doesn't receive those files, which means administrative lighting. However, it can still be requested, file by file. Citizens can obtain a copy of the file, for example for insurance purposes. This has no impact on the victims. This is a measure that has nothing to do with the actual handling of the case. This method has existed for years in various fields. A transparent approach to the prosecution policy from the court to the police is a very conscious choice of the King's Attorney of Halle-Vilvoorde. With regard to the framework of the Halle-Vilvoorde parquet, I can give the following figures. The legal framework shall be 24 magistrates. Two of them are posted to the IGO. There are also four places not filled, a magistrate is on maternity leave, a selection procedure is under way for a place and three seconded French-speaking magistrates and a Dutch-speaking magistrate of the Brussels parquet are working for the Halle-Vilvoorde parquet. As far as the approach to phishing is concerned, we are not stuck. It is important that the judiciary and the police assume their responsibilities, and we do so, especially with regard to a phenomenon that we know is taking more than worrying forms. Phishing and by extension cybercrime are a criminal threat facing us all. You know we're investing in the Justice Department. Specifically in this domain there are 33 additional people to strengthen the parquets. In the fight against phishing, police and justice are not enough. Above all, we must prevent citizens from being victims of this fraud. At this level, my colleague in charge of consumer protection, in consultation with the banks, will take the necessary initiatives to combat phishing or to prevent money from reaching the phishing organizers. The Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium is developing initiatives to alert and raise awareness among citizens, including via the Safeonweb site. So impunity is not what we install with this letter. On the contrary, this directive ensures that criminals who have a chance of being prosecuted can also be effectively prosecuted. First of all, we need to reduce the chances of the Phishers being beaten as much as possible, by warning citizens, by ensuring that the money is blocked in time, before it reaches the organisers' account. Finally, we want to increase the possibilities of getting caught, but also to be punished, thanks to a targeted strengthening of the Public Prosecutor's Office, with 33 more people to combat this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u41	Minister, your detailed answer is a little bit like the headlines. I note that when there is a chance of getting caught, the criminals will be prosecuted, regardless of the amount higher or less than EUR 10,000. Developing criminal policy in an arrondissement is the responsibility of the prosecution, but I understand perfectly well that if the perpetrator can be caught, whatever the amount, there will be prosecution. Minister, for many people, a sum of less than EUR 10,000 is also a huge loss. Other citizens, who may have a better financial situation, will feel a little less bad, but of course they must also be protected, they are also victims and they also have the right to prosecute the perpetrators. I am pleased to have been able to gain knowledge of this nuance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u42	Mr. Secretary, you are indeed nuanced in the coverage. I understand that such investigations abroad are difficult and do not always succeed and that there is sometimes a need to consider them. However, it is difficult to explain to a victim. In the case of €10,000 phishing, we are already talking about serious crimes. You say that the perpetrator can still be prosecuted if the amount is lower than the EUR 10,000, but it is not really a deterrent signal to the perpetrator, if one knows that there is a very good chance that the crimes will not be prosecuted. Of course, that's frustrating for the police, too. Of course I also continue to call for the Halle-Vilvoorde parquet to be strengthened. We have a very wide hearing next week, with the prosecutors, the prosecutors of the King, a representative of the Attorney General and the federal judicial police. More generally, we will discuss the lack of people and resources there. It is then wider than phishing and the parquet of Halle-Vilvoorde.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u43	Minister, thank you for your answer. You tell me that the choices of criminal prosecution have always existed and that they are made by the Public Prosecutor's Office and not by the government. That's right! Except that these choices must be real choices, not the result of budgetary constraints imposed by the government, which therefore reinforce the sense of impunity among the perpetrators and that sense of class justice, of two-tier justice that already exists in the population. To reassure us, you are putting forward several elements, including the fact that the Public Prosecutor's Office will need to be strengthened accordingly. The question is when, since without this strengthened framework, we will be told that the infringements will be prosecuted regardless of the threshold of damage of EUR 10 000, they will only be publicity effects. In the meantime, you say that this threshold of EUR 10 000 is indicative, but there is still a threshold despite all that it does not reveal the seriousness of an offence or the need to prosecute the perpetrator abroad. This threshold of EUR 10 000 represents an extremely large sum especially for victims in precarious situations. Compared to this very arbitrary threshold of 10,000 euros, it should not be forgotten that an author can make several victims in several countries. You yourself have recognized this, so that if we are not able to establish the link between the cases through a thorough investigation transmitted to the prosecution, we will never know the extent of the fraud that should be pursued.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u44	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer, but I do not understand one thing. I agree with the fact that prosecutors and the judiciary in general, in the pursuit and investigation of the perpetrators of the offences, are acting according to guidelines and are underpinned by the effectiveness of the action. It is not possible to recruit enough inspectors and judicial police officers to prosecute all offences of any kind. We are well aware of that. Moreover, and this is where I do not understand the EUR 10 000 threshold very well, when an infringement is not very likely to succeed for a lot of reasons because there is a lack of elements, why should a fairly high threshold be set in this way? Indeed, this reasoning of effectiveness could apply to all offences, if I confine myself to fraud offences, despite or notwithstanding their maximum or minimum threshold. In a file, when there is a possibility of success, why stop? You say it yourself, they don't. If, below EUR 10 000, there is a possibility of success, they are working on it. This must be valid for all files. Why do we have to go into bigger files when we know we're not going to get anything back? That's what I don't understand. That is the first principle. The second principle, as we know, is that there is a recruitment problem. We're confusing things. It is impossible to argue. I see the difficulty you find yourself in between the bottom and the shape. As long as there are reasonable recruitment problems, there will be a suspicion of dropping some of the cases that might be successful. That's the real problem. I find that in the communication - which now allows us to ask a question - the threshold was set out very firmly, as if we could not go down below. Your answer is interesting to more than one title since it appears that we can still do it. But I think it's all the reasoning itself that's not good. Either you're effective - whenever you can get something back, you're acting - or you can't - because you don't have enough staff anyway. It must then be said and made clear to a category of litigants that below a certain amount it is too expensive to implement the police and the judicial organization, and therefore not to do so. But I know we're never going to get that clarity. We must then be ambitious. We must resume our work with ambition and ensure that there are enough people to deal with all the cases that are worth it and that will give the people who have been tried the feeling that justice has been done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u45	Questions Nos. 55027016C, 55027019C and 55027023C by Ms. Sophie Rohonyi are deferred.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u46	Minister, in January 2021, I would ask you about the cooperation of social media in the removal of images in violation of the Revenge porn law. More specifically, I asked you how many requests for the removal of images of a sexual nature had been made by our courts to digital platforms, but also and above all the number of images that had actually been removed. At the time, you were replying to me that the figures available to the support service of the College of Courts and Courts are extracted from the applications with which the registries manage the judicial files. It also appeared from your response that the IT application of civil courts of first instance would not permit the recording of this requested data because there would not currently be a separate code that would identify cases related to the removal of sexual images. The situation would be different in civil cases – compared to correctional cases – for which it would be possible to generate figures. This is quite challenging, especially since it is essential today to be able to have these figures in revenge porn. Indeed, this violence is still too widespread in us. The harmful consequences are extremely important to victims, especially young victims. What is the status of the review that you announced you had conducted with the College of Courts and Courts on the availability of these figures for civil cases? How is cooperation with social media in the removal of sexual images currently taking place? Are initiatives complementary to this cooperation with social media taken by your firm to combat this phenomenon? Are you aware of the creation of the Stop Non-Consensual Intimate Image Abuse (StopNCII) platform, which allows victims to save their compromising photos before this content is analyzed and then shared to cooperating companies such as Facebook – who will thus spot the disputed photos on their platform and delete them? Do you support this initiative? What do you think is its added value in relation to the cooperation between the judiciary and social media through this famous law on revenge porn?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u47	The answer to your first question does not differ from the answer I gave, namely that the encrypted data available to the support service of the College of Courts and Courts which are extracted from the applications used by the registries to manage judicial records do not allow the requested data to be recorded. Indeed, there is no separate code to identify cases involving the removal of images of a sexual nature. On the other hand, Justice relies heavily on digitization and effective data management. With our digital transformation plan, we want to ensure better hardware and software, design digital folders, connect existing databases with each other, develop Just-on-web and in this way work more effectively. The data approach, the creation of new codes will also be processed but later. Unfortunately, I still cannot give you answers directly since we depend on the codes – an encoding system that is old and that we want to change. Once the judgment and judgment databank is operational – planned for 2023 – the bill will be introduced in Parliament. The company responsible for the data bank will be selected for the summer. Once ready, based on the analysis of the names of the terms, it will be possible to give more information than we can do today. With regard to your second question, since the introduction of the law of 4 May 2020, the Institute for Equality of Women and Men (IEFH) has become a trusted signaler (rusted flagger) allowing internet platforms such as Facebook to quickly remove images. Child Focus does the same when it comes to minors. To this end, they cooperate with the Federal Police (IRU:Internet Reference Unit). We are trying to make it clear in an accessible way that the IEFH is a trusted signaler. An alert form is available on its website, through which citizens can report revenge porn so that the images are quickly offline and can no longer be disseminated. We are in constant dialogue with the Director of IEFH. We need to see what the active role of Justice could be in this area. Finally, the fight against revenge porn is also part of the national action plan against gender-based violence. To answer your third question, the new sexual criminal law, which will enter into force on 1 June next – the new law having been published in the Belgian Moniteur on 30 March – includes an explicit basic offence of non-dissemination, non-consultation of images and sexual recordings with a severe penalty. A person who disseminates sexual images of an adult intentionally or for profit risks an effective five-year prison term. In the event of an aggravated offence, the penalty may be up to 15 years. I expect an even more active approach from major media players such as Facebook, Meta and Google. They promised to do so. A meeting is scheduled for May 16 with IEFH and social media companies about the law. The goal is to technically refine the law so that social media can more quickly offline non-consensual sexual images. I come to your fourth question. This strong initiative is already actively supported by the IEFH. Indeed, the latter makes explicit reference to it on its website. I can only welcome this initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u48	Minister, I thank you for your detailed answers, although your answer to my first question – which is fundamental – is the same as that given to me earlier. Indeed, there is still no separate code for obtaining encrypted data. You say that this will be done later. What do you mean by that? Are we dependent on the establishment of the famous database of judgments and judgments expected by 2023? For the rest, the problem remains. Indeed, you repeatedly say that the fight against sexual violence is a government priority, which I have no doubt about. That is why we supported your sexual penal code. At the same time, however, there is still a major problem in collecting data on sexual violence. Whether it's femicides, revenge porn or sexual abuse, it's the same problem every time. However, these data are essential in order to be able to objective these phenomena and therefore to take targeted and effective measures. I am thinking in particular of offences committed by minors. This is often the case with revenge porn. There is a need for preventive measures to be adapted not only to the dissemination of images but also to the accomplices of the authors, who then share these disputed images. I believe that this data collection work must already be done in the civil courts as well as in the organizations that receive complaints. As you said, the IEFH has in the meantime become a trusted signaler. Data collection work can be done with Child Focus, the data protection authority. It is important to be able to probe them, also to know how long it took the platforms to remove these disputed images. As we know, the longer the image stays on the internet, the more it will hurt the victim. Finally, I come to my questions about the StopNCII help platform. Would it be interesting to institutionalize it and provide it with a legal framework to ensure that victims' privacy is scrupulously respected?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u49	I refer to my question as I have submitted it in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u50	Madam President, your concern about this payment is, of course, justified, but the pro-Deo funds for the year 2020-2021 have not yet been transferred. This is traditionally done after budgetary control and, as you know, it is just behind us. The file will soon be completed so that the payment can be made as soon as possible. Unfortunately, the administrative administrative process that we have to follow step by step under the Royal Decree of 20 December 1999 takes a long time. The concrete value of the issue has now been approved by the Council of Ministers last week, I think, if I am not mistaken. The orders will then, as always, transfer the funds to the individual lawyers as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u51	Minister, I do hope that the situation can evolve rapidly. As you know, a lot of lawyers do pro bono work. In the current context, many lawyers, often young lawyers, will be waiting for that pro-Deo money. I hope that this can indeed be paid out quickly to the issues and then to the individual lawyers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u52	Madam President, Minister, on April 12, the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) handed down a ruling recognizing discrimination suffered by congregations of Jehovah's Witnesses in the Brussels Region, where their exemption from the property discount was removed. If I do not wish to dwell on the particular case of Jehovah's Witnesses in Brussels, I am still surprised by a few recitals and analyses of the ECHR's decision. According to the Court, "neither the criteria of recognition nor the procedure by which a cult may be recognized by the federal authority are provided for in a text satisfying the requirements of accessibility and predictability". The same judgment adds: "In addition, in particularly vague terms, they cannot, in the Court's opinion, be regarded as providing a sufficient degree of legal certainty." In fact, the Court's judgment denounces the absence of a text regulating the procedure for the recognition of a cult. There is also no time limit for the proceedings. The RTBF, which relayed the information, notes, moreover, that no decision has been taken to date on the applications for recognition submitted by the Belgian Buddhist Union and by the Belgian Hindu Forum, respectively, in 2006 and 2013. So it is not new files that have been entrusted to you. Such legal uncertainty opens the door to subjective decision-making, hindering good relations between the state and Belgian religious bodies. In the case of the above-mentioned procedure, it resulted in a fine for Belgium – which is never acceptable in terms of good governance. Therefore, Minister, do you confirm the absence of a legislative framework for the procedure for the recognition of a cult? What are you doing to regularize the situation in the eyes of the European Court of Human Rights and to clarify the process of recognition of worship? Is a list of criteria being drafted or updated? Incidentally, what is the status of the procedures for the recognition of Buddhist and Hindu cults, as discussed above?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the criteria for recognition in the context of an application for recognition of a cult or non-denominational philosophical organization have never been and are not included in a law. This is indeed an administrative practice. My services intend to analyse the Court's judgment as soon as it is published. The consequences of the judgment and the actions to be taken are currently being studied by a working group within the Justice FPS, which I asked to present to me the results by 20 July at the latest. I also spoke about this at the last Council of Dialogue, which took place a few days ago in my office. The Court is talking about the need for an accessible and predictable text, and this is the most important one for me. I am not going to anticipate the Working Group's proposals, but I do not think that is unclear. The list of recognition criteria is hidden somewhere on the Justice FPS website. I can send you the link. We must examine whether these criteria are sufficient and how we can then effectively translate them into an accessible and predictable text. Procedures for the recognition of Buddhism as a non-confessional philosophical organization and Hinduism as a cult are under way. The recognition of Buddhism has been included in the government agreement and has been incorporated into my policy note. My services are working closely with the Buddhist Union of Belgium on a text providing for its recognition, which I hope to submit to Parliament this year, and with the Hindu Forum of Belgium on the materialization of the granting of a subsidy for the structuring of its representative body.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u54	Minister, thank you for your answers. I suspect that in order to analyse such a stop, we must not act in haste. So I am making an appointment with you next July to understand the best consequences that you will have from this judgment. Whether for the secularism or neutrality of the State, it is important to have objective and accessible criteria in all matters. If these criteria exist and they are on the Justice FPS site, they are hidden somewhere, as you said. This is obviously to be improved.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u55	Minister, last year, the League of Families conducted a comparative and critical study on five methods of calculating the maintenance contributions used by judges, mediators, lawyers and parents. The study highlighted their respective advantages and disadvantages, checked their compliance with the legal provisions – both the Civil Code and the decrees – and also showed on which results, sometimes considerably different, they could produce. In addition, if some methods are paid, others are made available free of charge. This also raises the question, since the legality of methods and their conformity with the interests of the child appear to be uneven. The League of Families and the Gezinsbond do not recommend the use of the Hobin method, which would not conform to the legal bases, but which would also lead to results which do not respect the best interests of the child. However, it is this criticized method that is available free of charge on the Courts and Courts website. The League concluded its study by calling for a "single, flexible and compulsory calculation method for calculating food contributions, in order to combat poverty among single-parent families, but also against child poverty and gender inequalities". It recommended that the Federal Food Contributions Commission should increase its capacity to form a working group to develop such a single calculation method. Minister, do you agree that the coexistence of these methods does not lead to sufficiently predictable, objective and equitable results for parents? What further action do you intend to take on the recommendation to develop a single calculation method as advocated by these associations? Could additional funding for this be provided to the Food Contributions Commission? If so, within what time frame? Could you then indicate whether, at present, every legal professional who wishes to use paid software must acquire it personally and at his own expense or whether a form of collectivisation is organized? What could you answer to the concerns of the League of Families regarding the free availability of the Hobin method, knowing that it is neither proposed nor recommended by the Commission on Food Contributions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to answer your two questions, I confirm to you that at present no method of calculating the respective contributions of parents is preferred by law, the latter merely determining in general the nature of the parents' financial faculties and the costs to be taken into account in the calculation. Therefore, each judge is likely to develop his own method of calculation based on the consideration of one or the other source of income which he considers relevant, which makes the determination of the amount of that contribution unforeseeable. There are, of course, paid software such as PCA-VOB which makes it possible to anticipate it somewhat, but its use is not compulsory and must be supported financially by the person who uses it. On the basis of these findings, a Commission on Maintenance Contributions was established under article 1322 of the Judicial Code. The purpose of this commission is to make recommendations concerning the determination of the contribution of each father and mother in accordance with article 203bis of the Civil Code. Article 1322 also provides that the King may determine a method of calculation to facilitate the recommendations of the Food Contributions Commission. The Committee on Food Contributions has just resumed its work and continues to refine its method of calculating contributions on the basis of the methods used by practitioners. Financial resources have been made available to support the Commission in the study of these different methods. I await the committee's recommendations before proposing a possible method of calculation. A single method of calculation could facilitate the work of judges and could lead to the granting of maintenance contributions which would not be too different depending on the place of residence of the citizen. However, I would like to point out that the determination of a single method of calculation should not prevent the judge from exercising his discretion, particularly with regard to the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u57	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answers. I am glad to know that the committee is continuing work to refine a method of calculation and that you are actually considering the outcome of the work. I don't know if you have a scheduled date yet. I see you're saying no. Perhaps it would be interesting to know when or at what point the commission would think it had completed its work in order to know whether you could actually propose a single method. I understand that a certain degree of discretion must be preserved for the judge. I don't think that's what was particularly at issue here. But what the associations want to do is to insist, as you said yourself, on the importance of being able to predict the result at a minimum. In the study of the League of Families there are two case studies which apply each of the methods to the same family with considerably different results. There are variations of several hundred euros. There is even one case where it is one parent for one method and the other for the other method that finds itself having to pay. It's obviously something complicated for parents. You know that I care a lot about the generous dimension of things. These issues are not gender neutral since most single-parent families are families with single mothers. For all these reasons, I am glad to know that the work is under way. I would be very happy to be able to see the conclusions of the committee when they are available.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u58	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 55027067C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u59	Minister, this question had been introduced before our interesting debate yesterday on the attractiveness of magistrates, but it nevertheless retains some usefulness in the urgency given by the arrival of these large trials. Six years after these attacks in Brussels, compensation proceedings were scheduled for 19 April. Victims who are still awaiting the determination of the amounts to be paid by the insurers have, however, seen the hearings postponed because of the absence of the judge in charge of the Chamber. In view of the lack of effective judges, the case was dismissed on 13 June 2023 for pleading. There is clearly a clear lack of judges at the Court of First Instance in Brussels. The shortage is not new. I would remind you that your general policy note developed at the end of 2021 was proactive in terms of the new means, especially human ones, to be made available to the justice system. My first general question was answered yesterday. Is judicial shortages monitored in collaboration with the courts of first instance? As a matter of urgency, what role can you play as Minister of Justice to deal with this shortage, particularly in the urgency of current judicial debates?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u60	Dear colleague, we are constantly reflecting with the College of Courts and Courts to allow the recruitment of magistrates from the seat. The College sent us recruitment cards for the year 2021 for the Brussels Court of First Instance as follows:- the Dutch-speaking court: four vacant places of judges published; - the French-speaking court: twenty-two vacant places for published judges and two more for judges specializing in tax matters. As regards the case concerning the attacks in Zaventem and Maelbeek, four judges are specifically dedicated to this case in the context of the specific recruitment for this extraordinary trial. The necessary actions are therefore undertaken. We publish announcements and new judges are recruited. With regard to your second question, since the beginning of the legislature, we have been committed to strengthening the judiciary by opening many places for magistrates, clerks, jurists and referenda. In total, there are 1,400 additional persons for the judiciary, including 827 magistrates and judicial support staff. This is a tremendous effort by this government! This has led to a very large wave of recruitment and more than half of these people have been working for Justice in the meantime. The College of Courts and Courts and the College of the Public Prosecutor's Office are independent bodies responsible for assessing the staffing needs of the various courts and prosecutors' offices in the country. We open the vacant places based on the recruitment slips provided to us by these two colleges. With regard to the organization specific to each court, it goes without saying that the Minister of Justice has no power to intervene in the operation of the court. This competence is reserved exclusively for the head of the corps. However, I can assure you that the situation is being closely monitored in order to allow for a faster and more efficient functioning of the justice system, particularly in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answers. As far as the attacks are concerned, you tell us that the particular appointment is not within your competence but is the subject of requests made by the colleges of magistrates and courts and tribunals. You also say that four judges will be dedicated to this extraordinary trial, which I welcome. I would also like to point out the need to keep attention to these trials, which are of great importance in the immediate future of our justice system.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u62	Madam President, Minister of Justice, you see that I am not afraid of anything and that despite the difficulties of the judicial organisation, I envisage the creation of a new service through this question. Indeed, France will tackle its cold cases; in our tricolor neighbour, there are no fewer than 173 cases of unsolved crimes that are in the hands of the justice system without the means to resolve them. This has changed since the establishment within the Nanterre court of a national pole dedicated to unsolved crimes and serial crimes. This new entity has three of the most experienced investigating judges, a vice-procureur, clerks, legal assistants, and two judicial police officers to carry out these tasks. The task of this "cold cases" centre is to deal with particularly complex cases of a serial nature whose perpetrators could not have been identified so far, after more than 18 months. Major stakes, technicality and expertise are at the heart of the reactor of this pole of unsolved business. The "cold boxes" pole will be able to resume, from the beginning, sensitive, complex, poor progress investigations or left behind. By virtue of its national jurisdiction, it will have a broader view than the territorial boundaries of each jurisdiction. To this end, the Centre will be assisted by some 30 specialized investigators from the National Gendarmerie, behavioural analysts and serial crime specialists. This initiative has been praised in France by the families of the victims of crimes that are still not clarified today. As far as I am concerned, this is a very interesting initiative. On the issue of cold cases, Belgium, alas, is not left behind. Should we recall the case of Kim and Ken never resolved and which no one remembers or the case of the Brabant killers for which the statute of limitations has become an elastic that we stretch endlessly? How many serial killers could have been neutralized and brought to justice if this pole had existed in us with the widest possible vision and skills? Mr. Minister of Justice, since you took office, you have begun recruiting more judges. You have undertaken to provide our judiciary with modern means. In the context of these reinforcements that you are leading, how do you view this French reform? Can you commit yourself to creating, before the end of this legislature, a centre dedicated to serial and unresolved crimes? Are you able to group the same number of staff as in France for a Belgian "cold boxes" pole? Will you set up a specialised entity within, for example, the Brussels Court? On the other hand, such an entity would have the merit of relieving the front-line investigators from complex cases and would concentrate, within the same team, investigators and specialized magistrates who would move forward without dispersing. Finally, it is a matter of preventing crimes whose horror has already upset our country too much. The search for justice is not a question of time or means but, above all, a question of competence and will.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u63	Mrs Marghem, you are asking me an interesting question. In our country, too, there are many cases of unsolved crimes. In the interests of victims or relatives, it is our duty to continue, as far as possible, to work to find the truth and to clarify as many cases as possible. But in our country, this does not mean that we must or want to do so through a central pool in Brussels. The processing of cold cases by the Federal Judicial Police does not require the creation of ad hoc cells, according to the information provided to me, because in a regular search service there is sufficient expertise to deal with this type of case. The same applies to the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is also clear that forensic investigation techniques or other specialized investigative techniques can be provided or supported by a central body, the National Institute of Forensics and Criminology. Let us take the example of DNA research, which, quite recently, in a well-known case in Flanders, has led to a breakthrough in an investigation into unsolved murders. In other words, the creation of these cold-case cells does not create enough added value. However, this does not prevent the Federal Judicial Police (FJP) from doing so on an exceptional basis, such as with the Nivelles Bande cell.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u64	Minister, thank you for your answer. I do not agree with you that such a structure is useless. In fact, you recognize its usefulness, since at certain times, at the level of the PJF, such initiatives are taken. The idea, when one does not advance in the treatment of a case, is that one cannot elucidate or find the perpetrator of an offence and that one remains behind for months and years, to try to put around the case all the existing technical possibilities, the most modern and the most interesting, to find the perpetrator and to ensure that the victims of these atrocious offences receive help and know the truth. You mention a case in Flanders that I don't know but we can talk about it off the record for my personal guidance. It is obvious that the new techniques allow interesting breakthroughs but I do not know in which cases and with which aggregation of skills they have been used because they are valid everywhere. It is not only because a state-of-the-art technique is used, therefore, that the truth can be found for all cases that have remained behind. It is also due to the fact that investigators have a unique experience and specificities, and remember certain things. For example, investigators specialize in the recognition of vehicles from vehicle debris. These people know all the markings of all the vehicles and are able to identify, with great precision, a vehicle at the start of traces collected in the course of an investigation. They are not necessarily available to all investigators. So this is what, at some point, must be able to be gathered around a case in order to make it evolve. I am convinced that if we were to make the total of all the cases that have not been clarified for a long time in Belgium, we would unfortunately find almost as many cases as in France. Therefore, why not consider placing them within a circumscribed perimeter with investigators who, on an ad hoc basis, would work on these cases to try to solve them? I will, of course, follow these particular dossiers, particularly the one you mentioned and for which the investigators have grouped themselves around a specific situation, to see how they have done and what they expect from this gathering of skills.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u65	Minister, in De Morgen we recently read that two Serbian girls of about 12 years old and also a boy, possibly the brother, about ten years old, were caught trying to break into Flémalle near Liège on Sunday 10 April. There are suspicions of human trafficking and forced crime. After one night in a Liège police cell, the girls were transferred to the closed center in Holsbeek on Monday morning, and the boy to the closed center of Merksplas. Was there any official age doubt expressed at any time? If so, by whom and when? After all, I understood that it was very clear that they were minors. In De Morgen I read that the parquet of Liege states that that night the Voogdij Service was notified. Is that information correct? How is the permanence regulation of the Voogdij Service currently going? Is the phone being answered and by whom? Is there, therefore, an active search for a solution to the problems that arise or is only asked to call back during office hours? Could it be that at that time the police could not be heard and then the children were sent to jail and then to the closed center? You provide additional resources for the Voogdij Service. Will you also be able to ensure a sustainable night and weekend arrangement? When exactly and for what time was a guardian appointed and when exactly was that known at the courthouse? Are the three children staying with the same guardian, or are they staying at least in the same arrondissement? In cases like this, valuable time is often wasted, including with a view to a temporary placement or a claim by the juvenile court, because of the big claws and the search for the competent court. After all, the competent court is that of the guardian's place of residence. What opportunities for improvement do you see with regard to this aspect? The youth parquet ruled that there was no worrying educational situation. I find that remarkable, given the facts. These are very young children who are caught up in an attempted theft, who are far from home and who may be involved in trafficking in human beings and in committing criminal offences. How do you explain that judgment? Is it true that the juvenile judge did not order any social research, which seems very disturbing to me? How did the communication between the youth parquet and the reference magistraat for trafficking in human beings go? Was the latter notified? What's the status? We know from the two girls that they could end up in the newly established Meza, the center for underage victims of trafficking in human beings. Could the boy go somewhere and if so, where? Are they still there? Where are the children now? Is there any way of trying to stay in touch with them? Are there statistics available on the number of criminal trafficking in human beings with particular intent of forced crime that has been opened, dismissed and resulted in a conviction? What are you distracting from that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u66	Mr Segers, I refer in advance to the answer given by Mr Sammy Mahdi to your oral question in committee last week. He already referred to the decision of the Foreign Affairs Office and the transfer of the girls to the closed center of Holsbeek. I will not go back to that. However, I will reply from the point of view of the Voogdij Service. It is a rather comprehensive answer, Madam President, for which I apologise. Mr Segers, according to the Voogdij Service, no doubt was expressed by the police department concerned. The answer to the first part of your second question is as follows. The Voogdij Service did not receive a description sheet on the day of the interception, April 10th. The Voogdij Service was contacted on 11 April during the day about the three children. The local police involved do inform me that the night permanence of the Voogdijk Service was contacted, but no one answered. You know that the operation of the Voogdij Service is currently not optimal for the sake of strike actions. You know what we want to do about it. On 11 April the Voogdij Service received the description sheet of the boy. On this sheet the age of the boy was not mentioned. It also contained no indications of any trafficking in human beings or of any particular vulnerability of the boy. In addition, the boy was already known to the Voogdij Service. The service was informed by the dispatching of Fedasil that the young offered shelter had refused and had finally left. The two girls were transferred to the closed center in Holsbeek on 11 April, where it was found that they were minors. The two girls were spotted after the closed center had contacted the Voogdij Service by telephone. Also on the description sheets of the two girls there was no information on any indications of trafficking in human beings. A supervisor of the Voogdij Service then drove to the center of Holsbeek to pick up the girls and transfer them to a shelter for minors, Meza. The next day a guardian was assigned to the two girls. There was a meeting between the guardian and the girls. However, they disappeared from the center, after which the guardian filed a report of disappearance with the police. I would also like to point out that, in accordance with the 2016 circular on trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings and the 2016 circular on the vademecum concerning the interdisciplinary harassment of unaccompanied minors, the police forces and the Public Prosecutor's Office are competent to assign young people who may be victims of trafficking in human beings to a specialised centre. To answer your questions 2b and 2c: as you know, a trade union action is taking place, which means that the service is not accessible after office hours. During office hours, you are asked to contact us again immediately. It is also indicated that for the reception of very young or very vulnerable minors, contact can be made with the department responsible for youth assistance. For the reception of minors at the border, services can directly contact the observation and orientation centres of Fedasil in Steenokkerzeel and Neder-Over-Heembeek. The talks and negotiations are ongoing, and that is all I can say at the moment. You will understand that this consultation must be open to all. In the meantime, I'm working on a structural reinforcement of the Voogdij Service. Discussions are currently taking place in the government on the basis of a concrete proposal. With the extra staff there will be a sound permanentity scheme again possible. In the meantime, an internal call was also launched through Selor's Special Federal Force programme for a temporary reinforcement of the Voogdij Service. Your third question. The Voogdij Service appointed a guardian for the two young girls on 12 April at 08.46 hours, because, unlike the boy, they could still be located. The two girls were picked up and transferred to the shelter by the Voogdij Department at around 14 hours on 11 April 2022. The boy disappeared on 11 April 2022 immediately after his arrival at the dispatching of Fedasil. Your fourth question. I can inform you that the circular concerning the vademecum indicates that, if the unaccompanied minor does not have a guardian, the competent prosecutor is determined by the place of the facts when the unaccompanied minor is suspected of having committed a crime described as such and in other cases by the place where the unaccompanied minor was found. The parquet can see in MenaWeb, a light version of our database, if a guardian was appointed. The Voogdij then tries to appoint a guardian in the district of the parish that took the measures. For your fifth and sixth questions, I asked for an answer from the Liège parish, which tells me that, since this is an individual dossier, no further details can be given at the present stage of the procedure. On your seventh question, I can inform you that the boy was taken to the dispatching of Fedasil by the Flémalle police. He refused shelter and left immediately. To your eighth question, I can answer that the two girls were placed at the Meza shelter. However, they disappeared the next day. They were found again the following days and transferred to the shelter Meza. Because they again indicated that they would run away, the center decided to guide them to a family. However, they disappeared again, despite an earlier meeting with the appointed guardian. The boy disappeared immediately after his arrival at the dispatching of Fedasil. The three young people can no longer be located at the moment. For the answer to your ninth question, I have a lot of figures with me. However, I will deliver them to you in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u67	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. The reason why I often deal with specific cases is to highlight the bigger problem. In the Committee on Trafficking in Human Rights, we have already gone a little further into the observation that, for example, forced crime hardly seems to be on the radar. It also appears here that the various services involved have not really had the reflex to see the potential larger network. That also manifests itself in the figures you will give me. In the figures I already know, forced crime hardly appears. That is the case in the Netherlands. There is an urgent need to do something about this. Secondly, during the Human Trafficking Committee, the Interdepartmental Cell indicated that communication between the youth parquet and the reference magistraat should be improved. I can imagine that this is also the case here. I'm not sure, but I do have suspicions in that direction. Thirdly, I hope that the situation of permanence will be resolved quickly, but I understand that you will achieve this effectively. I continue to find it very strange that it is sufficiently serious to transfer those young people to prison and then to a closed centre, but because it is not a worrying education situation at that time it is not worth following those young people up, so we now do not know where they are. A social research and a collaboration with an organization like the Foyer at that time could keep those young people on the radar. We could take a leaning approach through Meza. It may indeed be that the young people leave there a few times, but at the third time it may still work. I am sorry that everything that has gone wrong has led to a lack of continuity. That permanence at the FPS Justice or at the Voogdij Service will certainly bring great added value.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u68	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Boukili's 55027201C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u69	Minister, you indicated that 6.6 million more would be invested in the Voogdij Service. This would give you 60 additional employee guardians in the first place. In addition, you would recruit 23 extra staff at the Voogdij Service, on top of the 27 who are already working there. The budget would also be allocated to additional interpreters and voluntary and self-employed guardians. At first I understood that they would be partly financed from the funds for Ukraine, but later it turned out that this was not the case. In the meantime, perhaps that would be the case again, so you should tell me what the exact plans are. Are these funds also used for an improved permanence scheme? How did the situation evolve since 30 March, when 307 unaccompanied minors from Ukraine were reported. How many unaccompanied Ukrainian refugees have been registered in the meantime? Where did those reports come from? Was that from registration center or from cities or municipalities? At what rate do these daily registrations take place? Earlier, you said that 34 unaccompanied Ukrainian minors were assigned a guardian. How often did that happen in the meantime? What does that mean for the total backlog today? You said last time that for 735 unaccompanied minors a guardian should be appointed. How many are that today? How often have in-depth identification investigations been launched in recent weeks with Ukrainian unaccompanied minors? What was the result of that? Were there any suspicions about human trafficking and could they be confirmed? When registering through the Heysel of a minor who is accompanied by a non-parent and who would not be in need of care, could the Voogdij (Saudi Service) ensure that this is a lasting solution in the interest of the minor? That is also the legal mission of the Voogdij Service. How are contact details kept and checked for accuracy in this situation without any alleged need for reception, as there is no allocation here and there will still be a need to report through the municipality? How do the guardians respond to the demand for more custody?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u70	The Council of Ministers approved a commission of EUR 800 million on 1 April. Part of that budget is intended to strengthen staffing at the Voogdij Office and to involve additional employee guardians. Since the Celeval report of 25 April has adjusted the forecast of 200,000 possible displaced persons to 78,000, I have logically adjusted my demand for additional resources. The demand for additional resources for IDP Ukraine as a result of the Ukraine crisis was sent to the Treasury Inspectorate and is currently under discussion in the government for approval. I hope to be able to provide you with more information quickly and take into account future fluctuations in Celeval reporting due to changing circumstances. Secondly, the additional staff should also be included in the permanence scheme. Thirdly, until 1 May 709 unaccompanied minors were reported from Ukraine. The children evacuated from Ukraine on 21 April 63 have not yet been added to this list. The actual number is therefore higher. The vast majority of descriptions come from the registration centre. However, the Voogdij Service cannot give specific figures on the origin of the descriptions. Over the last few days, the Voogdij Service has received about ten descriptions of unaccompanied minors from Ukraine every day. The Voogdij Service appointed a guardian for 89 unaccompanied minors from Ukraine until 1 May. Currently, for 1,039 unaccompanied minors, 660 Ukrainian minors are appointed guardians. Around 200 young people have recently arrived and are currently staying in an observation and orientation centre in Fedasil. For them, a more sustainable residence is sought in the first phase. In a second phase, a guardian can be sought and appointed in the local environment. Currently, it takes about five months before the Voogdij Department can appoint a guardian. With my demand for additional resources for the government, I want to systematically eliminate this delay. Seventhly, at the moment there are ten cases in progress, in which there are doubts about parental relationship or custody. No specific files have yet been reported to the Voogdij Office, in which there is a suspicion of trafficking in human beings. Eighth, the registration centre on the Heysel provides for a separate desk for minors, which is staffed by the DVZ. Those staff shall have a first interview with the minor, including questions about their place of residence and the circumstances in which they reside. In addition, they send a description sheet to the Voogdij Service. The indicated address of the unaccompanied minor shall be indicated on the description sheet upon registration. After a positive residential check by the district agent, the address of the unaccompanied minor will also be mentioned in the national register. Ninth, a number of guardians responded positively to the call for more custody. It concerns about 50 guardians, who recorded one to five additional guardians. Some fifteen former guardians, who have ceased to be guardians in the last two years, decided after the call to temporarily retake custody.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u71	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You have, of course, made a number of commitments, including in this matter. I'll keep following that up. I understand that this has been adjusted, as fewer refugees are arriving than originally expected. However, I am counting on you to provide sufficient resources, not only from the Ukrainian pot, but also, in order to be able to solve the problem that existed before, sustainably. I'll keep following up the file closely. I've also asked a lot of numbers because I'm really worried. I understand from your reply that, for the best, many Ukrainian unaccompanied minors have not yet been appointed guardians. For them, however, there is an extra urgency. For the sake of clarity, I would like to see a guardian appointed for all unaccompanied minors, including for the Afghan youth in the observation centre, where at least there is government control as opposed to home environments. I have already been informed through OCMW's that the reception of an unaccompanied minor registered in the Heysel, for which no match was sought on the basis of the assessment that there is no need for shelter, and who was given with the person accompanying him or her, even if that is not a parent, is not going well. This is about optimal situations, because then the demand for help has already reached an OCMW where they have had the right reflex to contact other services at the Heizel. That will not happen in many other situations. The only way to ensure close follow-up is to systematically appoint a guardian for all unaccompanied minors in a home situation. I realise that it may be a while before all those guardians are trained, but I think you will have to think about an interim solution to ensure the safety of unaccompanied Ukrainian young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u72	Minister, the last few weeks have again been very rich in rebounds with regard to the ongoing investigations of financial crime against certain senior Lebanese officials. The Governor of the Central Bank of Lebanon, Mr. Riad Salamé, is concerned primarily and often at the centre of attention. In Lebanon, he was charged on 21 March with illicit enrichment and his brother was also arrested and imprisoned. Abroad, Eurojust announced on 28 March that France, Germany and Luxembourg had seized the equivalent of €120 million worth of assets in an investigation into five individuals suspected of embezzling public funds in Lebanon. The European Union Agency for Judicial Co-operation does not reveal the identity of these five people, but several press releases have done so. It appears that this is indeed the Governor of the Central Bank and some of his relatives. As far as Belgium is concerned, Eurojust reports that a Brussels building worth EUR 7 million is one of the confiscated property. Free Belgium revealed this weekend that an investigation conducted by the Judicial Information Processing Unit had found "serious evidence of money laundering from corruption and/or embezzlement by a public official". These new elements lead me to ask you the following questions. Could you confirm to me that Belgium has taken a specific part in the judicial cooperation that led to these results? Could you also tell me what follow-up has been given to us, particularly with regard to this property in Brussels? Finally, was an investigation opened?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u73	Madam President, dear colleague, Belgium has received a request for mutual legal assistance from the judicial authorities of Paris in the context of the case which gave rise to the communiqué of Eurojust of 28 March 2022. This request is currently being processed by the Belgian judicial authorities. For the surplus, I can refer you to the Eurojust press release that I have at your disposal for information. I would add that Lebanon has also made a request for mutual legal assistance in connection with an investigation conducted by the head of embezzlement of public funds, aggravated money-laundering, forgery and the use of forgeries, illicit enrichment and tax evasion within the Bank of Lebanon. This request for the freezing of assets held by these persons in Belgium is also being dealt with by the Belgian judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u74	Minister, thank you for that answer. I do not know whether the treatment by the Belgian judicial authorities to which you refer in your reply means the opening of a formal investigation or not. I don't know. What I can tell you as a reply is, first of all, that I have been calling the government for a long time on this issue, which is essential because we are touching the heart of the system of corruption that is causing before our eyes the collapse of a country and the ruin of the Lebanese people. Secondly, the courageous magistrates in Lebanon who are fighting this system are now under threat. They're intimidated, under pressure. Finally, requests for international judicial cooperation are often blocked, killed in the egg. They are being sabotaged at the very heart of the Lebanese judicial pillar by those who are the accomplices of this system of corruption that has brought the Lebanese people to their knees. Within the Lebanese judicial system, there are people who have an interest in the fact that these requests for judicial cooperation do not advance. From this point of view, I believe that Belgium has a major role to play. Indeed, at least a poorly acquired property is located a few kilometers from here, in the heart of the beautiful Brussels neighborhoods. While respecting the principles of separation of powers, I really hope that the Belgian judicial services will do everything they can and will mobilise the necessary resources to obstruct and put an end to this system of corruption which is ruining a country and threatening to collapse a whole region.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic775x.u75	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 55, by Mrs Zanchetta lapses and Question No 5, by Mrs Zanchetta Mr Van Hecke's 55027437C is converted into a written question.
