ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic684x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament 55024950C and 55024961C by Mrs Hanus will be converted into written questions, as will Question No 4 by Mrs Hanus. 55023594C by Mrs Depoorter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic684x.u2	Mr President, Minister, as you mentioned in the press in January 2022, Belgian revenues from auctioning allowances under the EU Emissions Trading System have been blocked in an account since 2021. This is because there is no agreement on the intra-Belgian distribution of auction revenues for the period after 2020. As a result, the amount, which has now reached EUR 530 million, cannot yet be used, even now that the money could be used properly, to help citizens bridge the energy crisis and the climate transition. You know that the PVDA would rather lose the EU ETS than be rich, as climate policy is completely ineffective. The revenue from the past, however, is there. We better use them to reduce the citizens' energy bill, in addition to the much-needed permanent VAT reduction on energy and gas to 6%. In the meantime, the energy bill crisis has allowed the spirits to mature. Negotiations have finally been re-launched recently to reach an agreement on the allocation of ETS revenues. In that context, I have a number of questions for you. How come the negotiations hadn't started long ago? Have they started and stopped in the past? If that is the case, what was the reason for the discontinuation? Maybe the negotiations just never started? If so, how come? Why is there a need for a political agreement at all in our country to distribute auction revenues? In your opinion, are there not more efficient methods conceivable? You propose that, pending a new agreement, the old key for the period up to 2020 should be applied to the revenue from 2021. Do you think that old key is fair? How would you like to see the key change? What is your assessment of Flemish Minister Demir's proposal to distribute the ETS revenues on the basis of gross domestic product? Finally, how would you like to use auction revenues after liberalisation to reduce citizens' energy bills? Would you use the integral federal part for this, or would you use the money for other purposes? If you opt for the latter, what purposes would you like to use the money for? How much money would you like to make proportional to what purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic684x.u3	Mr President, Minister, I would like to endorse Mrs Daems' question on the internal Belgian negotiations on the distribution of ETS revenues. You have already regularly called for speedy negotiations. They would be a welcome contribution of more than EUR 500 million, which we could use to reduce, for example, the energy bill of families. It now seems that Flemish Minister Demir, who is chairing the National Climate Committee this year, is following your call to finally speed up and restart negotiations. When will the first consultation take place? Or has it already happened? What will the timeline look like after that? Will discussions on Burden Sharing and International Climate Finance also be linked to this discussion? With what wishes and expectations do you draw to these negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic684x.u4	Madam Minister, on 1 February the press announced that the Flemish Region, which will hold the rotating presidency this year through Flemish Minister Demir, would have started the preparatory talks within the National Climate Commission on Burden Sharing and the distribution of revenues from auctioning allowances for the years 2022-2030. A month ago, you once again proposed that, in the absence of a new cooperation agreement, the amount of EUR 530 million arising from the auctioning of allowances on the European ETS market should be distributed once on the basis of the old distribution key of the previous cooperation agreement, in order to allow structural investments for the regions in order to reduce the energy bill also through the Regions. Can you confirm that these discussions within the National Climate Commission on a new cooperation agreement have actually started? What's the timeline? What subjects are on the table? Is the blocked amount of EUR 530 million also being negotiated? Can you give me a mid-term review?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic684x.u5	Mr President, Minister, in addition to the negotiations on the distribution of ETS revenues, there are other distribution issues. The National Climate Commission urgently needs to consider this. Think of the increased Belgian climate targets for 2030 under the Efficiency Sharing Regulation. This is important for the revision of the NEKP 2021-2030. There must be a first new proposal by 2023, which is not far away. Also for the Belgian contribution to international climate finance, it is high time an agreement was concluded for the period after 2020. The challenges facing the South in terms of mitigation and adaptation are growing day by day. It is therefore crucial to bring the Belgian contribution in line with the needs. In Limburg's interest it can be read that Minister Demir wants to link this discussion with the discussion about the distribution of ETS revenues. Has there been a timetable for the different negotiating processes? With what proposals and expectations does the federal government leave for the negotiating table? And where does the federal government want to land? Will the Belgian position determination around Fit for 55 also be included in these discussions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic684x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can confirm that the next meeting of the National Climate Commission is scheduled for Thursday 24 February, under the Flemish Presidency. In the meantime, negotiations on a new cooperation agreement have been restarted. The Flemish President is working on the proposals of the Walloon President, although the opening proposal here and there weakens passages. At this stage, the constructive attitude around each entity's negotiating table counts. It is a fragile balance, but the first talks give me the impression that the Flemish President wants to work on an agreement before the summer, as soon as possible. That's the right attitude. I myself invest fully in support. I notice that's appreciated by all the parties around the table. It is no secret that I, along with you, regret the fact that more than EUR 530 million is currently blocked in a national account. Unfortunately, this amount can only be released after an agreement on its distribution between the federal and regional authorities, in accordance with the special Act of 6 January 1989 on the financing of the Communities and the Regions and the consequent cooperation agreement on burden-sharing. Even if we want to change this method of allocating auction revenues, a political agreement is essential and we must do so together with the Regions. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that the negotiations to reach an agreement have been going on for a long time within the National Climate Committee and that I have, from the start of this legislature, been driving for an acceleration of work, after a period of inactivity at the end of the previous legislature. When I joined as a minister in October 2020, the federal government was the chairman of the NKC and I myself took the initiative immediately to provide the NKC with a note of all the elements that had to come into the agreement, but also with the entire European context in which that agreement sets out, namely the strengthening of the ambition and the necessary revision of the EU legislation accompanying it. My intention was to find a working method that would allow us to work in serene and efficient ways towards an agreement. In addition, at the end of the federal NKC presidency, all parties committed themselves to reaching a political agreement by COP26, i.e. in Glasgow in November 2021. Under the Walloon Presidency of the NKC in 2021, bilateral meetings were held with each of the parties to examine how to proceed. In this, each of the parties remained prepared to engage in an intensive dialogue to return to the NKC with proposals for a political agreement. With the presentation of the European Commission's Fit for 55 package in July last year, there are a lot of new elements that still need to be adopted at European level and on which there is no consensus within Belgium either. This, of course, complicates the process of drawing up a new agreement. In view of these elements, with a mandate from the federal government, I have proposed a one-off allocation of the amount for 2021 on the basis of the key from the previous cooperation agreement to release the blocked amount once, with the aim of using the amount already for climate policy itself and to reduce the energy bill of families and businesses. Most of the funds go to the regions that can use them for structural climate policy. Lighting the energy bill therefore means energy renovations, social housing, support for efficient appliances, support for green heat and so on. In my view, structural climate policy is the best protection against rising energy prices, which are artificially maintained by a production cartel such as OPEC. In addition, I recently encouraged the Flemish Minister of Climate As new Chairman of the National Climate Commission for the year 2022 to restart negotiations, with the result that a new date was set. In my proposal for a one-off unblocking of the amount of auction revenues, I proposed applying the old distribution key, which is the only one on which, I believe, we can now base, pending a new agreement. However, in determining a new revenue distribution key for the period 2021-2030, I, together with the federal fellow officers, advocate a larger share for the federal government, as the full inclusion of air and shipping in the EU ETS will allow us to use resources for innovation in both sectors, and as we wish to use the Belgian revenues from the possible new ETS for buildings and road transport that do not go to the social fund in full for a return to families and SMEs in the form of a climate bonus, also in order to achieve a progressive income effect. In addition to the distribution of benefits arising from the European climate and energy package, there is also a need to regulate the burden. In its memo to the Consultation Committee, which sets out the state of play of the negotiations in the NKC, the following statement states: "An optimal political agreement would be to clarify the objectives of each entity on greenhouse gas emissions in the non-ETS sector, on the distribution of revenues from auctioning allowances and on renewable energy, energy efficiency and international climate financing."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic684x.u7	Madam Minister, thank you for the clarification. The file on the distribution of ETS revenues needs to be resolved urgently. We can really use the revenues from ETS to reduce the energy bill. Now the money is blocked by fighting federalism. With Mrs Demir's view that parts of a country with higher GDP are entitled to more ETS revenues, we do not, of course, agree. This would only increase disparities between regions. It would be much more efficient and just if no political division agreement was needed. Now things are getting politically jammed all the time. Community games do not help any Belgians. Almost all Belgian climate records are at an impasse today. Belgium really needs a coherent and integrated NEKP. Of course, it is also high time that Belgium contributed to this international climate financing. We believe that the federal level should draw the referee's role. That is also the view of civil society. That was already the case before the corona crisis, and that must also be possible for the climate crisis. We're gonna hold you to that task.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic684x.u8	Madam Minister, we were not very happy or satisfied with the outcome of COP26, because it was so difficult to reach an agreement at international level. It appears that we are having a very difficult time in our country to reach an ambitious agreement. This is, of course, difficult when one region with lead in its shoes pursues climate policy and believes that the only way to implement climate policy is by making it feasible, affordable and delaying. I am therefore pleased to hear that you have proposed a one-off distribution based on the old distribution key, so that the EUR 500 million can indeed be used for a structural climate policy. You have set the right tone and want to cooperate constructively, but you are putting on the table what is important to us. I also hope that a political agreement can be reached quickly on a new distribution key, because our country deserves better when it comes to climate policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic684x.u9	Madam Secretary, you confirm that the talks have begun, but of course you are also very careful. On 24 February there will be a follow-up, which will allow us to question you again in a few weeks' time. It is essential that we, Members of Parliament, follow the matter as closely as possible. Of course, you have also outlined the background, Fit for 55, which of course does not facilitate the matter if I read the reaction of the dominant party in the Flemish government. We'll see about this in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic684x.u10	Debates of the European Parliament 55024180C by Mrs Jadin will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic684x.u11	Madam Minister, from 20 to 22 January, the Ministers for the Environment and Energy of the Member States of the European Union met for an informal meeting in Amiens, on the initiative of the French Presidency of the Council of the EU. The purpose of that meeting was to take stock of the different positions and fault lines on some of the tricky themes in the Green Deal. These included the fight against imported deforestation, agro-ecology and chemicals policy, the introduction of a carbon border levy and how to reconcile the proposal for a new ETS for transport and buildings with a fair transition. There is no doubt that the European Commission's decision to include fossil gas and nuclear energy in European green taxonomy will also have been very frequent. Can you explain which camp Belgium is in in terms of politically sensitive matters? What views did our country and the government defend at that informal meeting of the EU Council?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic684x.u12	Madam Minister, it has come back to us that an informal meeting of European Environment and Energy Ministers was held at the end of January in Amiens. At this meeting, a series of topics related to environmental protection were discussed: the European strategy for reducing the use of plant protection products, the framework for chemicals management, environmental protection, public health and the proposal for a European Commission regulation adopted on 17 November 2021 to avoid the entry into the European market of products associated with supply chains linked to deforestation and forest degradation. Minister, did you attend this meeting? If so, can we get your return? Have any agreed points been found? Can we receive more information on the progress of the negotiations on the initiatives mentioned? Can you tell us the timetable for future negotiations? More specifically, with regard to the proposed regulation referred to, you indicated on 11 January that "the proposal presented is being analysed in all the Member States of the European Union" and that "no Member State has yet taken an official position". Have any progress been made in this regard? In addition, you indicated to us that a broad dialogue between stakeholders on this proposal was to be held on 28 January 2022 at the initiative of the Committee for the Coordination of International Environmental Policy. Can we get your feedback on this event? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no...................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic684x.u13	On 21 January there was the joint session of the European Energy and Environment Ministers on the EU's forest strategy. An informal meeting of the Environment Council took place on 20 and 21 January. That is where the Commission's proposal on deforestation-free products and possibly the revision of the LULUCF Regulation would have been discussed. EU Member States may still have to decide on the common definition of primary forests and primary forests, which should be covered by the strict protection regime. At the last meeting of the Environment Council in Brussels in December, the progress report on the Battery Regulation was presented and a second policy debate was held on a number of proposals from the Fit for 55 package. There was also a first exchange of views on the EU Soil Strategy. Can you report to Parliament on the discussions at the European Environment Council on 20 and 21 January? What was the Belgian attitude? Were the points raised by the previous Environment Council discussed further? If so, what was the Belgian attitude?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic684x.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, all your questions relate to the informal Council held in January, which I did not attend. It was Mrs. Tellier who represented us. To the extent that a number of important issues have been addressed, I would like to provide you with a detailed answer. At the informal meeting of Environment and Energy Ministers in January 2022, Environment Ministers discussed three issues, namely European coherence in the field of plant protection products in the context of the agro-ecological transition, the sustainable chemical product strategy and the legislative proposal on imported deforestation. With regard to the dossier of agro-ecological transition and harmonisation and coherence in plant protection policy, it is essential for Belgium to support research in the search for alternatives. Belgium informed the Council of an action in the NAPAN draft, which is currently in the process of public consultation, aimed at reducing charges for low-risk plant protection products and increasing charges for other plant protection products. With regard to urgent actions for a more uniform framework at European level, Belgium proposes that a common objective be set for reducing quantities and risks with regard to the use of pesticides, that a model register be developed for the professional use of plant protection products and that a common instrument be developed to support the online registration of use data; that the general principles of integrated crop protection be examined and applied; that basic substances with low risks and which could be an attractive alternative for synthetic plant protection products be facilitated on the market; that a European definition of low-risk plant protection products be harmonized; and that financial compensation be introduced for agricultural losses suffered as a result of the use of alternatives. An important condition for the success of the farmer-to-forth strategy is that the same restrictions and conditions can be imposed on agricultural production outside the European Union. Belgium therefore supports the European Commission's efforts to restrict the import of food products treated with prohibited plant protection products, including for health and/or environmental reasons that go beyond consumer protection. A second dossier discussed at the informal Council was the strategy on sustainable chemicals. Belgium supports the need for safe and sustainable criteria in the design of chemicals, materials and products. This is essential to ensure the transition to a circular economy and non-toxic material cycles. REACH and CLP regulations are essential instruments of chemicals policy. Belgium supports any measure to strengthen both the authorisation procedure and the restriction procedure and to ensure greater synergy between the two Regulations. Belgium stresses the importance of the principle of 'no data, no market', providing information to each part of the chain, including consumers. In the context of the review of REACH, Belgium supports the adoption of the generic approach to the risk management of chemicals, a life-cycle approach to the substance and the inclusion of the concept of "essential use." We recommend joint efforts in the area of regulation of PFAS as an example for the application of these concepts. Furthermore, Belgium supports measures at European level to prohibit the export of banned dangerous substances within the EU and to harmonise product and chemical policies with a view to a more coherent approach. We also support the inclusion of mirror clauses to ensure a level playing field for our European producers. With regard to the legislative proposal on imported deforestation, Belgium welcomed the proposal and assured that it would contribute constructively to its consideration. In particular, we have provided the following answers to the questions put by the French Presidency. To the extent that the proposal addresses a global issue, the European Union should be active in all appropriate cooperation levers and synergies, both bilaterally and multilaterally. In this regard, we also referred to the important initiatives undertaken by Belgium at the recent COP26, such as the Glasgow Leaders Declaration on Forests and Land Use, the Global Forest Finance Pledge and the Congo Basin Joint Donor Statement. We also mentioned Belgium's partnership for Beyond Chocolate and Amsterdam Declaration. Belgium also wished to stress to the informal Council the importance of transparency and traceability in this dossier. It also asked the Council to consider the effects on other ecosystems. Finally, Belgium requested clarification on the concept of "forest degradation". Two working sessions were on the agenda of the joint meeting of Environment and Energy Ministers: a working session on the just transition and a working session on the role of forests and timber in environmental, energy and climate policy. The Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism was not addressed. The work session on the fair transition was not limited to the new ETS for buildings and road transport, but dealt with the impact of climate policy in general and the proposals to strengthen European regulation, including non-price measures. Belgium indicated that the transition must be socially just and inclusive and no one should leave behind. The Presidency also stressed the important aspect of jobs, reskilling and upskilling in its questionnaire. Belgium indicated that the construction sector has an important growth potential and that we need to take leadership in innovative energy technologies to create high-quality green jobs in the European Union. During the work session on the role of forests and wood, it was about how to optimise the use of wood products in the context of a bio-economy. Belgium stressed the importance of sustainable forest management, strong sustainability criteria for biomass and supporting a local forest sector and short chains. Belgium endorses the importance of the cascade principle, which states that natural resources must be used and recycled for as long as possible and should be destined for the most valuable use in each step. However, it seems clear to me that the policy must not interfere with the cascade principle. The European Commission therefore proposes, in the revision of the Renewable Energy Directive, to phase out subsidies for biomass-based electricity generation by 2026. Finally, Belgium referred to the multifunctional role of forests, which exist not only to produce biomass but are also very valuable for the conservation and protection of biodiversity and have a positive impact on citizens' health. With regard to gas and nuclear energy in the taxonomy, the Belgian experts asked additional questions within the framework of the Member States Expert Group on Sustainable Finance. We were awaiting the final version of the delegated act which has been published in the meantime. For my part, I am opposed to the inclusion of gas and nuclear energy as sustainable economic activities. The government has not yet decided on its position. Discussions are under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic684x.u15	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. For us, it is clear that we need strict regulation with binding standards for the major polluters in order to resolve climate and environmental issues. This is too important to leave to market mechanisms, where everything can go wrong and perverse effects can occur. We are therefore opposed to the extension of the ETS and want the system to be replaced by binding standards. Only in this way will we have the certainty that companies will also effectively reduce their emissions, in line with the reduction of global global warming to 1.5 °C. I am glad that non-price regulation is also being looked at. For chemicals, too, we are counting on a serious tightening of EU legislation. Recently, the planetary limit for chemicals was crossed. It is therefore extremely important to ensure that there are no more harmful chemicals on the market and in our environment. I am glad that Belgium is advocating this. Therefore, the EU should ban the production of these substances in the new REACH legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic684x.u16	Madam Minister, thank you for the clarity of the information you were able to provide us with following this meeting. My line will stop here. Good afternoon, everyone!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic684x.u17	Madam Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. I think it is important that we regularly ask you questions about the meetings of the European Councils. It is useful for Parliament to be kept informed of the discussions there. Deforestation, sustainable chemicals, plant protection products and price formation in the light of a fair transition, more than ever needed in the current energy crisis, all of which was addressed. The devil, however, was proverbial in the tail when you spoke of taxonomy. The final editing, to put it that way, takes place on the Van Peteghem cabinet. We will also question him about this and then it will be clear immediately whether the government's answer is as clear as yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic684x.u18	Minister, a study by the Stockholm Resilience Centre published on 18 January in a scientific journal announced that we have just crossed a fifth "global boundary" (five out of nine), specifically that of chemical pollution. This fifth limit targets the number of new chemical-derived entities in our environment: plastics, pesticides, antibiotics, nuclear waste, etc. Scientists show that the rate of production of these chemicals is too high in relation to our ability to measure and evaluate their potential impacts on terrestrial systems and that we are unable to estimate the impact of their production on our environment. This tipping point represents the previously respected equilibrium break, a point of no return after which it will be impossible to return to the initial state. With this fifth limit, we have exceeded a majority of the limits set by this collective of international scientists, and some of the remaining limits are at a critical level. You have recently transposed the SUP directive by adding ultralight plastic bags, you have validated a federal circular economy plan, launched a consultation on NAPAN... These are of course necessary steps, but probably not yet enough to meet the challenges we face. Minister, how do you respond to this new alert, and how does this new alert affect your priorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic684x.u19	Mr President, exceeding a global limit is very bad news for humanity, for the economy, for employment and for the well-being of the greatest number. This means, in economic terms, that the ability to meet human needs is diminished. If we don't take this problem at arm-to-body right away, the number of options available will decrease further. This aspect therefore remains a priority for me and I will work to encourage the government as a whole to revise our ambitions upwards. You're quoting recent projects that I care about, but my work on chemicals is much broader. My ambition is to ensure that these products are analysed globally in order to take into account their entire life cycle and that they respect the limits of our land. I am working on these challenges at the international level through the conventions on international trade in hazardous chemicals, on persistent organic pollutants, on mercury, but also through the resolutions of the United Nations Environment Assembly or the strategic approach to international chemicals management, which includes nanomaterials, endocrine disruptors, perfluorinated chemicals and highly hazardous pesticides. I am committed, together with my European colleagues, to the success of the European Commission's Green Deal, particularly in its chemicals sustainability aspects and the zero pollution action plan. At Belgian level, I am currently finalising with the Regions and the Communities the NAPED - a national plan on endocrine disruptors - which is expected to come into being this year. I also commissioned a study on the feasibility of a ban on exports of banned chemicals to our territory. As part of the Belgian Builds Back Circular Recovery Plan, I am committed to funding circular projects with my colleagues in charge of the Economy. The projects funded must help unlock opportunities for circular investment to meet two key federal public priorities: promoting the substitution of hazardous chemicals and contributing to Eco-design. I also see an urgent need to invest in all phases of substitution of chemicals of concern (either by better substances or by alternative technologies, products, methods or business models). With project funding, priority will be given to the most important substances, sectors and products in order to spend resources efficiently and effectively to ensure maximum positive impact on our chemical industry, downstream users, public health and the environment. These investments are part of a broader substitution strategy prepared by Belgium, which aims to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the "Chemicals Strategy for Sustainable Development". I am therefore endeavouring to respond to this finding with a comprehensive approach because only Belgium and the European Union will be able to meet these challenges of exceeding the global limit of chemicals, as is the case with the other already exceeded limits (climate change or biodiversity).
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic684x.u20	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I have absolutely no doubt of your determination at any time to preserve both our health and that of our planet. Through your different approaches, we see the cross-cutting policy that you are leading in relation to these issues. Nevertheless, I would like to stress the urgency of the situation in which we find ourselves. For when we talk about the nine planetary limits, five of which are already exceeded (this is also the case with climate and biodiversity, in the general sense as well as with the nitrogen cycle), it is clear that the time for consultation in the major international bodies, the United Nations or even the European level, sometimes prevents us from being up to date both in terms of ambition and speed in our decision-making. Minister, I can only encourage you to continue in your determination and to draw on all the vital forces of our society, at the level of civil society, at the parliamentary level and with your government colleagues, to put all possible pressure, at all levels of power, to meet these challenges that are ours. We can't afford to wait any longer. Thank you for your determination and your response.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic684x.u21	Minister, on December 14, 2021, Test Achats published the results of a survey of the Belgian population's report on environmental claims and ecolabels. The survey of 18-74-year-olds revealed that 85 per cent of respondents felt that environmental product information was useful, but that about 68 per cent of respondents indicated that they had little knowledge of ecolabel requirements. It should also be noted that 57% of consumers are perplexed and often assume that these sustainable labels are just a marketing strategy to boost sales and that 43% of consumers reported little or no confidence in public authorities to control products. Minister, can we get your feedback on the results of this investigation? Can measures be considered at national and European level in the field of product policy, given the knowledge of labels available to citizens, as well as the trust given to labels? Are there any contacts with your competent colleagues in this regard? Finally, we know that the Sustainable Products Initiative, which constitutes a revision of the current Eco-design Directive, should be adopted by the European Commission in the first quarter of this year. In this regard, you indicate in your general policy note your willingness to "ensure that Belgium defends an integrated product policy approach, integrating in a coherent way the different tools of product policy (product standards, labels, public procurement, extended producer responsibility, etc.).)". Is it possible, Madam Minister, to obtain information on our country's requirements for transparency and accessibility of information provided to consumers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic684x.u22	Mr Senesael, in order to respond to the proliferation of eco-labels, which could be confusing to consumers, in 1992 the European Commission set up an eco-labelling system – the EU Ecolabel – to promote products with a lower impact on the environment throughout their life cycle, and to provide consumers with accurate, accurate and scientifically established information on the impact of products on the environment, in order to guide them in their choice of products that are more respectful of the environment. The EU Ecolabel is a type 1 label according to ISO 14024. In other words, it is controlled by an independent third party. It is therefore not an ISO type 2 self-declaration label, which is the sole responsibility of its designers. Unlike other Member States – such as Germany, France and the Netherlands – Belgium has so far chosen not to set up its own eco-labelling system, although this is provided for in the Product Standards Act. The results of a survey of the SPF in 2016 indicated, among other things, that the EU Ecolabel was "well known"; 49% of those surveyed knew the label if they were reminded of the logo, making the EU Ecolabel a recognised brand, but in a rather passive way, therefore not well known. The Test Purchases survey reveals a 57% perplexity and a 43% lack of confidence in all eco-labels. It is clear that the profusion of self-proclaimed labels contributes to this perplexity. According to the study of my services in 2016, the European Ecolabel enjoyed, on the other hand, great confidence. More than 80% said they trusted this label. Only the energy label had higher scores, but the energy label is a mandatory label, unlike the European Ecolabel which is a voluntary label. This reinforces me in the idea that we must push the European Ecolabel to put order in all self-proclaimed labels and restore confidence to the consumer. The European Ecolabel shall apply in all the Member States of the European Union, as well as in Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein, each country having to designate the competent bodies responsible for carrying out the tasks laid down in the regulations. In Belgium, this is the Committee for the award of the European Ecolabel, established by the Royal Decree of 29 August 1997. The Committee is composed of representatives of federal environmental and economic authorities, regional authorities, environmental protection organisations, consumer protection organisations, industry and workers' protection organisations. The Belgian Committee carried out a broad promotional campaign in 2017 as part of the 25th anniversary of L的EU Ecolabel and one more recently, in 2019. These communication actions have led to positive developments, both in terms of EU Ecolabel licensing in Belgium and in the number of ecolabelled products. In 2021, Belgium recorded 57 EU Ecolabel licenses. This represents 10 more licences than the previous year, the highest number of EU Ecolabel licences ever registered. The number of EU Ecolabel products is 5,431. Compared to 5 years ago, the number of products was multiplied by 4. Within the European Union, Belgium ranks ninth in EU Ecolabel licensing and fifth in EU Ecolabel products. The European Commission has developed various strategic actions to empower market players to consume, produce and live in a more sustainable way and to involve them in the transition to a circular economy. These actions will make it possible to integrate and further develop the European Ecolabel as a relevant tool in policies and initiatives promoting sustainable consumption and production, the circular economy, sustainable lifestyles, sustainable finance and climate action, in synergy with other tools such as EMAS, Ecodesign, GPP, and to strengthen the presence of the European Ecolabel on the market by stimulating both industry adoption and consumer awareness.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic684x.u23	Minister, thank you for your comprehensive, accurate, clear and structured responses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic684x.u24	Madam Minister, last week, the Sustainable Development Task Force of the Federal Planning Bureau presented the most recent evaluation of Belgium's performance on the additional indicators on sustainable development in the Chamber's Economics Committee. The results were pretty staggering. Apparently, a prosperous country like Belgium is only on track for 16 out of 51 defined sub-objectives of the United Nations' sustainable development goals. For most of the sub-objectives, we are even evolving in the wrong direction. Belgium will therefore not be able to reach the SDGs without a policy adjustment. As Minister for Sustainable Development, you have undoubtedly taken note of the evaluation report. How will you adjust Belgium's performance in terms of sustainable development so that we can achieve the SDGs? Will you discuss this with the federal advisory councils and civil society? In what way will you coordinate the work within the federal government but also inter-federally to ensure that Belgium still achieves the SDGs? Will the Federal Sustainable Development Plan be updated as a result of the evaluation? Will you do that? Finally, how come the Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate was not invited to the presentation of the evaluation report in the Committee on Economic Affairs?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic684x.u25	Mrs Daems, I, like you, have noted with concern the new report of the Federal Planning Office on the indicators on sustainable development. The report is in line with what the Federal Planning Bureau previously published, such as for example the balance sheet of 15 July 2021, which also stated that a trend break is necessary to reach all SDGs by 2030. However, it is also in line with previous trends. Since the beginning of the current legislature, the use of SDGs as a compass and the deployment of this trend break has been one of the spearheads of my policy. For example, a much-needed Federal Plan for Sustainable Development was adopted on 1 October 2021 for the first time in more than ten years. The plan is fully based on the SDGs and should therefore not be amended in this respect. In addition, I initiated the first steps for a full SDG governance through the integration of the SDGs into the policy paper on debt securities and the alignment of the relance plan with the SDGs. The aim of the SDG governance is therefore that each member of the government should contribute to achieving the SDGs, because the current situation, inherited from the past, does not make the outlook too bright. It goes without saying that, also in line with the 2030 Agenda, the involvement of civil society and the federal councils is extremely important for our policies. For example, the preliminary draft Federal Sustainable Development Plan was the subject of a broad public consultation and I regularly appeal to the federal councils for advice. Of course, I intend to continue to do so. As far as interfederal cooperation is concerned, I have noted that Flanders has recently adopted its fourth sustainable development strategy, which calls for the re-launch of the Interministerial Conference on Sustainable Development (IMCDO) to launch the process of the Voluntary National Review (VNR). I am therefore very looking forward to the invitation of the President of the IMCDO to start that process and to work together on a thorough and inclusive and participatory process as far as the VNR is concerned. I therefore see the report of the Federal Planning Bureau as confirming the need for our SDG governance and strengthening it through various initiatives, including the implementation of the Federal Sustainable Development Plan, the integration of the SDGs into the regulatory impact analysis and the further strengthening of the SDG integration into the policy statement. With regard to your question concerning the invitation to the Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate, you will no doubt know that Parliament is organising its work autonomously and that nothing will prevent the committee from inviting the Federal Planning Office to a similar session.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic684x.u26	This report has taught us both that it is serious about the sustainable development of Belgium. Especially in the social field, almost everything is going backwards instead of ahead. Surely that is vengeful in a country where corporate profits have never been so high. We must also be vigilant about the environmental objectives. We cannot afford a standstill in sustainable development policy. You must now take action to adjust the policy and effectively achieve the trend break. Together with you, we look forward to restarting the IMC Sustainable Development.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic684x.u27	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Cogolati's 55024206C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic684x.u28	Madam Minister, I have rather recently become aware of a rather worrying new mode. She's worried about me, at least, being a mother of two teenagers. It seemed to me to be something really important. I am obviously talking about the new fashion, mainly among very young adults, even teenagers, of the puff, a disposable electronic cigarette that is gaining greatly in popularity among young people because of its fashion or hype aspect, its relatively cheap price. They obviously have a very attractive merchandising for young people; they are fruity tastes, colorful packaging. It actually looks kind of like candy. The concept came to us from California, where it was born in 2019. This has happened a little more recently on the European continent. Information from France indicates that this new practice poses a serious problem for young people in a fairly general way in what they call colleges and high schools there. We have to expect the same kind of trend in Belgium. This phenomenon is worrying first of all for health issues. A puff can contain up to 2% nicotine and therefore have an important toxic and addictive effect for our young and old. It is also established that the concept of electronic cigarettes has a normalizing effect and may be a step towards the consumption of ordinary cigarettes. We think we start with something a little playful and, in fact, it's already a first foot to the stirrup of addiction. There is also a significant negative impact on our environment. It is also a disposable product that contains a large amount of single-use plastic and a small lithium battery is also integrated into these devices. In the absence of adequate collection after use, this is therefore an important pollution factor. Minister, are you aware of this problem, which is diametrically contrary to your policy on single-use plastics, circular economy and environmental pollution? Will you take action to protect both the environment and public health from these electronic disposable cigarettes that are also gaining in popularity in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic684x.u29	Mr President, Mrs de Laveleye, your question highlights this new mode and the problem it is, and I thank you for that. Like you, I'm very worried. We know that cigarette butts are one of the main fractions of waste in nature. In the light of current practices, disposable e-cigarettes should also be expected to end up in ordinary waste or, worse still, to worsen the problem of waste in nature. Even if electronic cigarettes, and therefore also these puffs, are covered by existing regional legislation on the recovery of batteries and electronic devices, this will never entirely solve the problem. That is why I intend to tackle this problem preventively and I have asked my Environment Administration to examine what options are available to us to ban these disposable electronic cigarettes in Belgium. To the extent that they include single-use plastic and a small lithium battery, as you correctly indicate, these disposable electronic cigarettes have a very high pollutant factor. They also have no social added value. That's the opposite! They have an adverse effect on public health and encourage smoking. Where electronic cigarettes were intended to accompany smokers towards the end of their addiction. In line with our work on banning single-use plastics, a targeted approach is also needed to address the problem of puffs. On the basis of the law on product standards, we will draw up a proposal to ban disposable electronic cigarettes on the Belgian market. This work will obviously be carried out in coordination with my colleague minister responsible for public health, at least for those that contain nicotine and directly harm health. These disposable electronic cigarettes are an example of more than one indissociable link between environmental health and human health. Finally, I also intend to bring this issue to the international agenda. For the time being, we have not heard from other EU states that would consider the way to a ban. The subject must be discussed jointly with my colleagues in the European Union, in order to raise their awareness and agree on the legislative approaches to be taken at European level. If so, I would be happy to take on a pioneering role on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic684x.u30	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. You will not be the only one happy to be a pioneer in this field. We will also be very pleased to see you moving forward on this matter. As you are saying, this is really an example par excellence of some form of absurdity of a consumption system, which directly endangers both the health, here of the youngest, and the health of our environment. Of course, as environmentalists, we do not have a general prohibitionist approach to health products. However, we are convinced that it is imperative that we limit the placing on the market of products that specifically target young people in the field of public health and that have such a strong impact on our environment. Thank you very much for these answers, and especially for the prospects you offer us for a ban at Belgian level, but also for the prospect of bringing this debate to the international level for wider directives. I hope that we will soon hear from you about your work. We will be pleased to see how these initiatives will succeed.
