ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u1	Mr President, Minister, there are airlines at risk of losing their slots. This is due to European legislation. Europe has an arrangement in which 80% of the slots are to be used. In 2021 that changed to 50 %, if I understand correctly. And what do we see now? These regulations have put in place a perverse system, which allows flights, for example from Brussels to Barcelona, to leave without passengers. From an ecological point of view, it appears that such a flight to Barcelona emits 60 tonnes of CO2. If you do that times 3,000, you'll get a useless CO2 emissions of 180,000 tons. That's not negative. This debate is, of course, about the need to continue to operate non-profitable flights in order to preserve the slots. That's the whole point. If the airlines knew they could keep their slots, there would be no problem. We now see that people like Michael O'Leary of Ryanair, who was the first to criticize it and wanted to release the slots for everyone, now mostly want to continue to organise the competition themselves. He also complains that airlines are getting too much money from the governments, while they are also getting money themselves. So the whole situation is rather absurd. What is the federal government's position on this European regulation? Is the 50% rule too high, or what do you think of it? According to sector organisation ACI Europe there is no need to retain slots via ghost flights. Even if this 50 % is not feasible, an exception is possible. This derogation can be applied for if flights are not profitable due to travel bans and restrictions, both mandatory quarantines and isolations. Is this thesis of the ACI correct? Does Brussels Airlines invoke that exception? Why is there a flight tax opposite if one can fly around with planes without people in it? Isn't that a little absurd?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u2	Mr. President, Minister, to keep her slots, Lufthansa announced that she would have to fly 18,000 flights without passengers. At Brussels Airlines, there were 3,000 almost empty flights this season. This situation is due to European regulations which provide that slots may only be kept by airlines year by year provided that they are used at least 80%. With the pandemic, this proportion has been reduced to 50%. You have positioned yourself in this regard, and we have read your position in the press. In addition, you have recently called on the European Commission – responsible for the matter – to rethink the rules on these slots, in particular in the context of environmental logic, since one can wonder about the meaning of flying unladen aircraft, which have a significant impact on greenhouse gas emissions. What solution do you recommend beyond the letter addressed to the European Commission? Have you ever received an official response? If so, can you communicate it to us? Can you confirm what we were able to say in the press about this? In case of resistance on the part of the European Commission, do you intend to raise your European counterparts' awareness of the subject, to go against positions which, so far, were rather conservative in relation to the existing system, and against its introduction which, as you have already said in the press, constitutes an environmental aberration? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u3	Mr Minister, as my colleagues have said, we learned a few days ago that Lufthansa's airline was planning to operate around 18,000 passenger-free flights this winter, of which 3,000 would be covered by Brussels Airlines, while the airline sector is responsible for 3.5% of the EU's greenhouse gas emissions and several initiatives have been launched in recent months to reduce these emissions. Several elements were mentioned to explain this situation. First, European regulations would require airlines to provide 50% of their landing and take-off slots in order not to lose them the following year – a 30% lower rate in February 2021 due to the covid crisis. Second, due to a drop in bookings due to the spread of the Omicron variant and the measures to combat the spread of the virus, Lufthansa plans to cancel 33,000 flights by the end of March 2022. Minister, can we have you back on this? We know that you sent a letter to the European Commissioner for Transport and relayed Brussels Airlines' request to revise European regulations. Has a response from the European Commission been received to the government? If so, can we get information on this? In addition, this situation can be explained in particular by the financial impact of the covid-19 crisis on part of the air sector. We know that the European Commission is working to speed up the revision of the system of free allocation of greenhouse gas emissions for this sector, which we can of course welcome. Can we be informed of the state of play of the negotiations on the Commission's proposals on this subject? Does the impact of the health crisis on some airlines affect the achievement of the stated ambitions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u4	Minister, we are in the midst of an enormous climate crisis. It is unbelievable that obsolete European regulations are forcing airlines to fly around empty aircraft. Colleagues have already given the figures. I am very pleased that you very quickly raised the alarm and wrote to the European Commissioner for Mobility. At the beginning of the corona pandemic we also knew this problem. I asked your predecessor a question about this. At that time, the European Commission withdrew the final rules and eventually updated them. Now, however, the phenomenon is reappearing. Have you already received a reply from the European Commissioner? If so, what was her reaction? What policy do Belgian airports apply with regard to justified non-use or slots? Will you remind them that it is appropriate to allow a smooth use of these measures during the corona pandemic?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u5	Mr President, Minister, first of all, allow me to express my best wishes to you. Like my colleagues, I want to bounce back on this news. In fact, European regulations set the 80% rule for an airline to retain so-called slots, i.e. slots that determine the right of an airline to take off or land an aircraft at an airport. This regulation is based on the principle of free competition, but it clearly raises questions at the time of the pandemic and, in particular, of climate change. We will all agree that flying empty planes is, today, a complete absurdity. Kerosene is consumed and at the same time CO2 is produced without carrying passengers. It will be recalled that, during the first wave of the coronavirus epidemic, European airlines had faced a significant reduction in the number of passengers and their activities. On this occasion, the European Commission lowered the threshold for a company to keep its slots to 50% of the flights. The rate was 64% this summer. It is up to me, Mr Minister, that you have addressed the European Commission in order to allow this rule to be relaxed for a specified period of time. However, barely four days ago, she indicated that she was simply refusing this debate, considering that "the rules in force are flexible enough and that the derogations to avoid the flight of unladen aircraft are sufficient". Minister, what do you intend to answer to the European Commission? Is there any consultation with your European counterparts, in particular with the German Minister for Mobility, in view of Lufthansa's complaint, with a view to making proposals to the European Commission with a view to obtaining some relaxation of this European rules on slots? Do you intend to make passenger transport by train more competitive with regard to lowcost flights, which make up a significant share of greenhouse gases? If so, how?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u6	Mr President, in my turn, I wish the members of this committee my best. I hope that we will have exciting and constructive discussions in this year of 2022. The questions that have just been asked are quite interesting. Thank you for the questions on this subject, which is very important to me, namely the economic, environmental and social consequences of aviation. As you have explained very well, the current European rules require airlines to carry out a certain percentage of flights in order to keep their take-off and landing slots, which are called their slots, at least at the airports that are coordinated because not all are coordinated. These are the main European airports. Due to the pandemic and declining demand, it is particularly difficult for airlines to meet these conditions, except for unnecessary, empty or more often imperfectly filled flights, which would be an economic and environmental nonsense. I think you share my point of view. That is why I wrote to the Commission on 20 July with my Maltese and Greek colleagues asking for an adaptation to the fall in these rules. The Commission then responded positively to this first step. As a result, the minimum use rate for slots has been reduced to 50%, compared to 80% in normal times. However, on the basis of very optimistic forecasts of the resumption of air activity, the Commission proposed in November to increase this rate of flights to 65% from next summer in order to retain slots at coordinated airports. This is a very legitimate concern for several airlines who want more flexibility to be able to react to epidemic waves that result in a sharp drop in flight bookings, depending on the different variants, or the rules of application in the take-off or landing states. Several airlines have therefore announced that they would operate empty, or almost empty, flights in order to maintain their slot. For Lufthansa, this would mean no less than 8,000 empty or almost empty flights and no less than 3,000 empty or almost empty flights for Brussels Airlines, according to the spokesperson of the two airlines. In addition to the environmental aberration that this creates, this situation also generates a form of unfair competition between airlines using coordinated airports and those using smaller airport platforms for which there is no requirement for a minimum percentage of use. There is therefore a threefold problem: an environmental nonsense with high CO2 emissions for nothing, an economic nonsense with a waste of money for the companies that are already suffering heavily and a social problem with this unfair competition compared to the so-called low cost companies that use airports that are not subject to the legislation. The European Commission has the power to set an appropriate threshold for use through "delegated acts". That is why, on 3 January 2022, I rewritten to the European Commissioner for Transport, Mrs Valean, to ask her to review these rules and, more specifically, to ask her that the threshold for compulsory use of slots be further reduced and that new possibilities for derogation be introduced, at least for the winter season until the summer of 2022 and until a crisis related to coronavirus can be confirmed or new rules are applied in accordance with the new normality. The European Commission responded fairly quickly on 12 January 2022. The Commissioner fully shares my view, and yours too, that any massive operation of empty flights would represent an environmental absurdity in clear contradiction with our climate objectives, with the European and Belgian climate objectives. However, according to the Commission, there is sufficient flexibility and derogations in these rules to avoid empty flights. While it can be recognised that the Commission has shown flexibility in reducing the minimum rate of use of slots and that European companies are already using the derogations, the reality is still a little different. Today there are indeed large differences between destinations depending on the epidemiological situation in each country. Therefore, in some countries, including Belgium, airlines fly on board with very few passengers instead of optimizing their slots. That always happens with the intention of not losing their slots. It results in very high carbon costs per passenger, which is incompatible with our environmental objectives. That is why, as Minister for Mobility, I will continue the contacts so that the European Commission can put in place a structural solution that leaves room for more flexibility. This solution could be, for example, to maintain a common base of slots to be used in a normal health situation but to be able to react quickly to a new epidemic episode or other exceptional circumstances. In addition, a moratorium must be put in place quickly during these waves in order to neutralize the condemnation mentioned. In parallel, a monitoring system should allow a re-evaluation of the situation, with the aim of lifting the moratorium, if applicable. Several countries have expressed interest in our request. I sent my colleagues the letter I sent to the Commission. It elicited reactions and support. Consultations between my cabinet and the European Commission are planned in the next few days, this Friday specifically, to continue the dialogue. We must not lock aviation in rigid rules of the past. As Minister for Mobility, I want to work towards a forward-looking aviation that is more respectful of the environment and workers' rights, and I also want, as you know, Mrs Rohonyi, to develop alternatives, including international trains and night trains. With regard to the environment and workers' rights, Mrs Hanus, with regard to greenhouse gas emission allowances, the so-called ETS system, there is no information to conclude at this stage that the health crisis has any impact on this project, whether in terms of its ambitions or its date of application. I am fully aware of the role of the ETS in the climate architecture and the need to strengthen it. I welcome the provisions on the aviation sector and the inclusion of the maritime sector in the ETS. According to indications from the French Presidency, which started on 1 January, work on this subject will resume in the framework of the Environment Working Group within the Council on 27 January. Various points will be addressed in the discussions on the aviation emissions trading scheme, including the ceiling and linear reduction factor, the phasing out of free allowances, or the use of agrofuels and synthetic fuels. You must not doubt that I will continue to carry this type of issue on the agenda of the European Councils in which I take part every six months, as I have done since I took office, in order to advance practice in this area. Your almost unanimous reactions encourage me to continue in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is true that this figure will be the figure for me at the beginning of the year: 3,000 empty flights are coming. This is at least an aberrant number, given our ambitions in terms of environmental transition! I think we need to take action. You have given us some answers that allow us to have a framework and a return to your discussions with the European Commission. Regardless of the legal theory, the administration must be able to check whether empty flights will take place or may have already taken place and inform us of them. In the future, without a doubt, we will have to give the impetus to review the logic of European regulation, which ultimately encourages more and more aircraft in the sky. As you mentioned in your answer, the question of international rail transport, like the night train that makes its great return to our country and internationally, is of course a solution that the PS group is advancing. If we could then have a look back on the answers we have received about empty flights and their numbers, I think that would be of great interest to the members of this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u8	Minister, you have given a very comprehensive answer. I understand, of course, that time has been relatively short. There was a letter dated 3 January 2022 and a reply on 12 January 2022. We're not much later. Nevertheless, you have outlined a number of issues relating to the three-fold problem: the environment, the economy and also the threat of competition. All this is quite right and the dialogue is being conducted. Quite rightly there are also a number of elements, such as quick response and moratoria monitoring. At present, however, they do not have anything to do with this. I really want to press for the dialogue to be stepped up in order to arrive at rapid, concrete measures. What the aviation sector needs now are not lengthy dialogues and analyses, but concrete, effective, flexible measures. That is what is needed for a sector that is already struggling enough. I'd like to call on you to do everything in your power to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u9	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we must act quickly. It is true that a large part of the problem will have to be solved at European level. In the other case, competition will be organised between the different countries. I started at the airport in the '80s. Then the problem of slots wasn't there because then much more was regulated. The whole wave of liberalisation in the sector is making things much more difficult now, with a great danger that you yourself indicate, namely that the Ryanairs of this world want to take over the market, that they have to pay less and have more money. Just that is not the evolution we want to follow. Firstly, the working and wage conditions are very poor. Secondly, they provide a downward spiral for workers, but also for the ecological aspect. We believe that the alternative, namely the night train, international trains and trains to the airport, should be continued. However, there should be a regulation at European level around the slots so that there is no unfair competition between the different airlines.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answers. They allow us to see that Belgium has taken the lead in challenging the rules for several months. We can see you're proactive in this case. We are in a battle of views with the Commission. It is interesting to note that after the European Year of Rail, we are moving towards the European Year of CO2, without any drastic revision adapted to the management of the health situation. I fully support you in your initiatives vis-à-vis your European colleagues. We also continue to argue for a change of model from the aircraft to the train. That's indispensable. There is talk of competition in the air sector, but there is also competition between the aircraft and the train. In this regard, it is important to put an end to the unfair competitive advantages of the aviation sector vis-à-vis the train, which the government has committed itself to.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u11	Minister, I am pleased to hear that you have immediately sought partners, and also found, in order to convey the message that empty or almost empty flights fly across Europe, just to comply with absurd rules, is short-sighted and nonsensical. In the climate crisis, Europe is an important partner to play briefly on the ball. It is good that the Commissioner responded quickly, although her answer is somewhat disappointing. I am pleased that you will continue to press for a structural solution so that we can stop these so-called ghost flights. I also agree with colleagues who point out that alternatives such as international trains should be addressed at European level, in addition to adapting the rules and removing ghost flights. This is the best way to blur Europe's borders and ensure that there are valid alternatives within Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u12	Mr Minister, I thank you for your detailed response and for your willingness to change this European regulation. While it is clear at the outset that slots with a minimum flight rate are of interest for reasons of financial profitability at airports, it cannot be accepted that this is now more important than common sense and ecology. This is the case at present when aircraft are flying unladen. You have come back to the European Commission's argument that derogations may be granted in the event of restrictions imposed by a State on travel due to a health situation, except that this argument does not stand at all. Not only because these derogations are only possibilities and are not automatic, but also because, if the demand for flights has decreased in recent months, it is not because of the health context and the related measures but also because of the will of the passengers for economic reasons (which is why the price of trains has fallen) and for ecological reasons or because the health situation is still considered too unstable to travel calmly. In fact, you recalled earlier, saying that things could change as flight requests could increase in the coming months, especially by the summer. I can only encourage you to relax this system, as it was at the height of the health crisis. With regard to unfair competition between coordinated airports and others, I believe that it is appropriate to call for uniform rules for all airports. We already hear Ryanair's boss pull his pin from the game in this file and that is not acceptable. I hope you will be heard, Minister, during your consultations. You have every interest in working, as you did last summer, with your European counterparts since you were heard. I hope you will be back next summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u13	Mr Minister, SNCB has a great heritage, including a lot of property that is empty. I have asked many questions about this in the past. It concerns hundreds of properties: unused stations, sheds, houses, land, land and so on. Regulatedly, SNCB puts real estate for sale on its website. However, the limited supply that can be found there, compared to the fairly large vacant list, suggests that it may take a few decades before everything goes on sale, if the current pace is maintained. I would therefore like to have an overview of the goods sold by SNCB in recent years. Do you think that SNCB should make a greater effort to sell its real estate that has become unusable more quickly? Will you, for example, register in the new management contract that you are currently negotiating with SNCB? What is the purpose of the proceeds from the sale of SNCB's real estate? Do they end up in general operation or do they have a specific destination? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u14	Mr Roggeman, an overview of the criteria you are asking for is not available. Moreover, as SNCB must comply with a transparent and equal procedure in the valorisation of its real estate, it is not possible to disclose the confidential data relating to each sale of real estate. What SNCB can give is an evolution in the number of land and buildings it sells and its annual revenues. In that connection, I would refer you to the answer I gave to written question No. 559. The annual statement of revenue from the sale of real estate is as follows: €17,5 million in 2018, €34.2 million in 2019, €35.6 million in 2020. The amounts of non-recurrent sales are as follows: 8 million euros in 2018, 25.7 million euros in 2019 and 1.2 million euros in 2020. Indeed, these revenues serve part of the purpose of reducing the debt. The capital gains realised on sales are part of the gross revenue of SNCB. In 2018 and 2019, part of it was used to finance investments in assets for public service contracts. For this part of the sales, the debt is not reduced. SNCB should use the unwritten capital subsidies relating to the assets sold to finance investments in public service assets without additional capital subsidies. It amounts to about €19 million for 2017 to 2020. SNCB's debt will not be reduced for this part either.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u15	Mr Minister, I am surprised that the data on the sale of real estate cannot be made public. You attach this to the transparency of the sales procedure. It is quite ironic, however, that this transparency gives rise to the refusal of an answer and therefore, in fact, less transparency. I also do not see in what interest for SNCB could be compromised. It seems like a general trend. If we ask questions that go beyond what SNCB itself communicates on its website, for example about the number of passengers by train, it is considered confidential. The proceeds from the commercial offer, the cost recovery rate and now the sales of real estate are confidential. Every year, the railways present to taxpayers a large invoice of EUR 3 billion. It is therefore fair to communicate what is being done with this money. Unfortunately, that is not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u16	Mr Arens, it is important not to confuse two things: on the one hand, the purchase of a Senior Ticket which can be made directly at the ticket counter, at an automatic, on the SNCB app and on the SNCB website, and, on the other hand, the presentation of the Senior Ticket on board the train which, as you just mentioned, can be made via a smartphone, via the identity card or via paper format. On the SNCB website, the distinction between the purchase of a Senior Ticket (at the bottom of the page on the ad hoc page) and its presentation on board the train (at the top of the page) seems quite clear to me. If that is not the case, I hope I have been able to clarify the situation with my answer. I also hope that you will be able to contact the people who have asked you about this. With regard to the current seven-hour limit for the use of the Senior Ticket round-trip on the same day, it is necessary to take into account, according to the logic of this regulation, the peak hours of the rail fare. The morning and evening peaks are very important on the Belgian network, especially during the week, and even though this could have been nuanced during this period of covid. This is why a limit has been introduced into the rules for the use and access of Senior Tickets. I think you know that. Your question about the surcharge on board in the event of a breakdown has already been answered in committee several times. But I'm happy to remind you of these answers. If an automaton had to fail in an adventure, everywhere in the country, this automaton transmits a signal that is relayed to the attendant who can carry out a check and allow travellers to purchase their ticket without any extra cost. If no technical failure is reported to the attendant, but it is not possible to use the automaton for another reason, such as degradation, for example, the surcharge on board is theoretically applicable, but the traveller may request a refund from the latter. I can also reassure you about the reliability of sales machines, the average availability of which, according to information provided by SNCB, is almost 99%.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u17	Minister, thank you for these answers. I'd like to go back to the automatons right now. I make it clear that some people encounter real difficulties with the use of these automatons. At that time, they arrive on the train, and the supplement is due, which I find completely unacceptable. These people are sometimes young people, but they are often older people, who used to meet agents in the train station lobby, and were advised by them. Today, I'm really sad that there's nothing human about what's happening in our stations. This is unacceptable! With regard to the use of the Senior ticket, I would remind you, Minister, that the former Minister of Mobility – at the time, of Public Enterprises – Isabelle Durant, had agreed and had put in place the possibility of using the Go Pass for students before that time. Often, it happens to travellers who board the Arlon train station not to be able to enjoy their Senior Pass. Now, 15 kilometres further, people can enjoy it. There is a real discrimination that I do not understand about people who are far from the major centres. I insist, Minister: review this rule and make every effort to solve this problem!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u18	Unfortunately, Minister, it seems as if the time for the station of Herentals, the historic capital of the Kempen, has stopped. Although it is a very important station for the spacious region, it does not reflect either in the state of the building or in the surrounding area. There is work to be done to fix the station and make it accessible. The master plan has been in place for some time, but implementation has been postponed, because the previous governments did not invest the necessary resources to make train traffic more attractive and performant. Recently, the city and SNCB have been talking to each other again to update the master plan. What's the status of the master plan? What changes are made to the previous master plan? What is the timetable for the various work? The SNCB also contacted the city of Herentals to discuss the payment of the station parking. The local government is clearly not a asking party for this. Has SNCB listened to the objections raised by the local government and is it coming back to its steps?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u19	Mrs Buyst, the SNCB and the city of Herentals work closely together for all projects planned for the station of Herentals. Negotiations are currently under way between SNCB, Infrabel and the Federal Government on the new management contract and its investment plans. In this context, Infrabel and SNCB have jointly proposed a plan to significantly increase the number of autonomously accessible stations over the next ten years. The priorities will be determined on the basis of the potential of a station, the state of infrastructure and the opportunities arising from railway renewal work. If we take into account the priorities and possibilities for decommissioning, the work in Herentals could be carried out in 2026-2028. Since 2009, SNCB has gained experience in the management of parking areas and established that pricing works. This stimulates the modal shift towards sustainable and green mobility modes. As always with such a decision, SNCB contacts the local administration in question autonomously. The same applies to the city of Herentals. SNCB confirms that the station parking will have to be paid for, according to a timetable to be determined with the municipality in order to take the necessary mobility measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u20	Vibrant stations, which our group strongly supports, start with a lively station environment. Refurbishing buildings and platforms is indeed important, but certainly in and around the station of Herentals there is also some work on the shelf as regards the surroundings of the station. Since the negotiations on the investment plan, among other things, are still ongoing, it may be a good time to make some suggestions. A first suggestion I would like to give is to integrate housing units on the site. These can lead to a reconversion of the site. At the moment it is mainly a huge concrete plain with a car, bus and bicycle parking, while I think the location has more potential. A second suggestion is to think about the undertunnel of the Powder Leeseweg. As a result, the railway will immediately become conflict-free. Finally, with regard to the charging of parking, I would like to stress that SNCB must take into account criteria that determine whether or not a car park should be tarifed. This concerns in particular the number of possibilities for combi mobility at a particular station. I still believe that it is better for passengers to travel part of their journey by train instead of taking the car.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u21	Minister, my questions date back some time ago. Thank you for answering them here. The Flemish government wants to make it impossible from 2029 onwards to register new cars on diesel, petrol or with a hybrid engine. The ban is part of the climate plan on which the Flemish Government reached an agreement yesterday. However, it is the federal government which ultimately decides on the policy regarding the registration of cars. Are you prepared to support the Flemish Government's recommendation to speed up the introduction of the electric car in our country and to take the necessary steps to enable it to be implemented? If that is not the case, what is stopping you? What are the other regions' views on the Flemish recommendation? Are they willing to go along with those plans? Is there any discussion on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u22	Mr Raskin, as Minister for Mobility, I am determined to act today to reduce the environmental costs of our movements tomorrow. My three priorities in that perspective are to avoid unnecessary movements, avoid organising the modal shift to the least polluting modes of transport, shift, and improve existing means of transport from the point of view of pollution and CO2 emissions, improv. The Flemish Government's idea of not allowing the sale of new vehicles with an internal combustion engine from 2029 applies to the third category and is therefore worth considering, but all Mobility Ministers must of course approve the Flemish proposal on electric cars. That is why I placed the item for consultation on the agenda of the Inter-Ministerial Conference of Mobility Ministers on 13 December. However, legal analyses show that, within the current European legal framework, a gradual ban through the federal level is not possible. In order to achieve this objective, Belgium must therefore reach a European agreement for a faster phasing-out from 1 January 2029. Therefore, Minister Peeters will submit a proposal for a joint letter to the European Commission to the members of the IMC and each member will then have to submit the proposal to his respective government. So this is being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u23	Minister, I understand that action has been taken on the basis of the Flemish plans. You called the IMC together on 13 December and concluded that a European agreement is needed. Minister Peeters is at work and on that basis there will be further work. We'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u24	Mr Minister, I would just like to refer to the Council of State, which, a while ago, raised my question in November 2021, published an opinion stating that the Brussels-Capital Region has the power to introduce a mileage tax. However, the Council of State urged that the measure should not be introduced unilaterally. The Council recommended that a cooperation agreement be concluded with the other regions in order to avoid or limit as far as possible possible discriminatory situations. The Brussels Minister for Finance, Mr Gatz, had already indicated that consultation with the other regions and with the federal government in the Consultation Committee should be restarted. As the question dates from 8 November 2021, I assume that the consultations have already taken place. Firstly, can you give some explanation of the timing, of what is happening and what might follow? Secondly, what position will the federal government take when discussing the opinion of the Council of State to conclude a cooperation agreement in order to avoid possible discrimination? Thirdly, how can the latter objective best be achieved?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u25	Mr President, Mr Raskin, the SmartMove project was the subject of in-depth consultations within the Consultation Committee in 2021. The consultation provided a better view of the Brussels project. However, it has also highlighted a number of differences, including those of a legal nature, with regard to legislative adjustments. It was therefore agreed that the Brussels-Capital Region would refer the matter to the Council of State. According to my information, the advice was received recently. The ball is now in the camp of the Brussels-Capital Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u26	That is a very short answer. The Minister of Ecolo explained just how he wanted to eliminate the costs of mobility or the negative effects of environmental costs. When it comes to the sensitive dossier of the Brussels city toll, he prefers to remain silent. After all, his PS boss in Brussels is on a completely different line. I understand the Minister's difficult situation and I will try to investigate it further through other channels. In due course, I will ask you a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u27	Mr Minister, according to the website of B-Parking, 569 parking spaces are available at the Vilvoorde station, of which zero were intended for disabled persons at the time of submitting this question. That is the word used there, although I prefer to use the word wheelchair users. The same applies to the parking in Genk, where when submitting my question there were zero parking spaces for disabled persons for what is a large station of a large Flemish city centre. When I again consulted the SNCB website in preparation for this session, these figures were updated. I have never seen such a rapid policy response to a parliamentary question. Apart from those incorrect, now corrected data, there appear to be other larger stations offering only a very limited number of parking spaces for wheelchair users. The station of Wetteren only counts 3 out of a total of 337 and that of Denderleeuw 9 out of a total of 1,074. How do you explain that some parking spaces at larger stations have such a limited number of places for wheelchair users? Do you agree that an adjustment is appropriate here? In this context, I would also refer to Minister Lalieux's Federal Disability Action Plan, which emphasizes the need for more parking places for disabled people. What steps will you take to respond to her call? What is the target? Do you have a certain percentage in mind as a reference, to what purpose should SNCB target? Which stations will receive additional parking spaces for wheelchair users? On what time do you want to see this done?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u28	Mr President, Mr Roggeman, SNCB had already picked up your tweets and thank you for your attention. The website has been modified in the meantime. Of course, I endorse the plan of my good colleague, Mrs Lalieux. Mobility by train can only be genuine freedom if all rail passengers have easy access to the stations and parking facilities. Therefore, together with SNCB and local authorities, I am working to ensure optimal accessibility, especially for people with disabilities or other mobility, as you said. We invest in that goal, as you know. SNCB respects the legal obligations and always provides the necessary parking spaces for persons with disabilities. The standards for the establishment and the number of places for persons with disabilities differ from Region to Region. The number of parking spaces for people with disabilities is determined by the regional authorities. The number of reserved places for persons with reduced mobility thus differs from Region to Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I believe that everyone agrees with the objective that our stations should be more accessible to everyone, including wheelchair users. The above examples show that there is still some work to be done in some places. In my view, the low level of availability of facilities at some of the station parkings managed by SNCB is no longer present, especially in the light of the fact that the parking lots are being paid for. After all, B-parking is fully engaged in the introduction of paying parking. In practice, we see little improvement in facilities, not only in terms of accessibility, but also in terms of security, for example. So there's still some work to be done. I am pleased to hear that you support this objective. I will contact colleagues in the Länder to look again at the standards for parking.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u30	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 55022626C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u31	Mr President, Minister, in recent months there have been a number of incidents in and around the Ronse station: nuisance to the neighbourhood, unrest, some destruction in the bicycle sheds and so on. We have discussed security problems before in committee, but there seems to be too many incidents in a short space of time. We all strive to ensure that passengers are able to take the train safely. Is SNCB aware of the problems that have arisen in and around Ronse's station over the last few weeks and months? There are no surveillance cameras in the bike shed at that station today. Is that provided for? Are there any other measures planned for the permanent protection of that bicycle storage or the environment? What permanent measures will SNCB take to increase safety at its station? Has there been any consultation with local government on the measures to be taken? For example, is Securail planning additional patrols in that area to prevent or discourage the nuisance?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u32	Mr President, Mr Roggeman, I would like to refer you to the topical debate in the Mobility Committee on 5 October 2021, which also covered your questions. For me, the safety and safety experience of the travellers is paramount. For several years, SNCB has had a policy based on three pillars: integrated working, reducing customer risk behaviour and an approach for bicycle thieves. These three pillars are developed through 9 strategic action points: the drawing up of an action plan on safety in bicycle sheds, the development of an overall cycling strategy, the optimal use of local opportunities, imaging, the identification of an optimal level of safety, the development of a strategy for camera equipment, the optimal use of the existing CCTV network, customer awareness and monitoring and social control. In addition, SNCB ensures safety in the bicycle sheds and has established contacts with the police prevention service to discuss the problems and examine possible additional measures. Securail cannot be permanently present in any station. When Securail patrols the station of Ronse, the bicycle storage is also taken. Since mid-October, SNCB has also installed a mobile camera that has a view of the bicycle storage. The police can retrieve the footage in the usual way. The municipality of Ronse has already expressed its appreciation of SNCB's efforts. Of course, I also express my support and appreciation for these efforts by SNCB in cooperation with the police forces. Safe stations and trains are a prerequisite for making travel by train a real freedom.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u33	Minister, you refer to the general principles and the general debate on security. However, the general principles must also be applied locally, independently of the local situation. I would have liked you to look a little more closely at the measures taken to suit the situation in Ronse. You refer to a temporary mobile camera placed there and a conversation that took place with the local police prevention service. Hopefully we will continue to pay attention not only to one-off measures, but also to permanent and permanent measures to protect bicycle storage and to ensure prevention and safety in and around the station. Hopefully it will not be limited to a one-off conversation with the local police prevention service, but it will be possible to take permanent and structural measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u34	Mr President, Mr Arens, the one-year limitation period to which you refer in your written question comes from the Code of Economic Law, article X.49 of which provides: "Actions arising from the contract of carriage of persons, except those resulting from an act qualified by criminal law, shall be prescribed by one year." It is true that the periods of limitation vary considerably in Europe and that Belgium, along with a few other Member States, has one of the shortest periods of limitation. Given that passengers are required to file a complaint with the airline first and that it often takes some time to receive a response, I am open, although not directly competent, to a discussion on the extension of the limitation period. One idea that I will submit to my colleagues might be to align this time frame with the limitation period for claims under the two-year package holiday, related travel and travel services sales law. I will relay this proposal which seems to me to be of common sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answer and I count on you to move this issue forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u36	Mr Raskin, road managers can already place watch softeners if they deem that appropriate. It concerns additional information for pedestrians, just like the green and red decoys that have already been placed at certain pedestrian crossing points. There is therefore no need for consultation with regional colleagues on this issue. The real question that arises with regard to the start-up orange is whether this will help road safety. As the driver will leave faster, the number of potential conflicts with pedestrians crossing seems to increase, especially when drivers leave when the light is still orange or just on the transition between orange and green. Therefore, the few seconds that such a light can generate does not seem to outweigh its potential danger. Road safety is a top priority for me and my regional colleagues. Together we have the ambitious goal All for Zero. That is why, on 23 November, we presented the first interfederal road safety plan at the State-General for Road Safety. After all, no road deaths have been avoided. That is why we now want to work even better together to ensure that policies are coordinated at different levels and that we protect citizens even better. Mobility is a freedom and we can only enjoy it if we feel safe in traffic.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u37	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u38	Mr Roggeman, to your first and third questions, SNCB answers the following. As part of the structural reform at the end of December 2004, which divided the integrated SNCB into three companies, Infrabel as an infrastructure manager, SNCB as a railway operator and SNCB-Holding........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The objective of that framework agreement was to facilitate and monitor the identification of the risk grounds involved in that restructuring in order to carry out policy research on soil and the identification of priorities for soil restoration within the budgetary capabilities of the then SNCB Group. The present SNCB is the successor to the railway operator SNCB and SNCB-Holding. That agreement included a number of Milestones, including the preparation of soil remodelling projects of the risk land priority list established on the basis of that agreement by 31 January 2023. However, that date is not a strict period of implementation of soil restoration, so that the ongoing projects can continue beyond that date. Over a period of 20 years, starting in 2006, a budget of EUR 66 million is foreseen. Now I come to the answer to your second question. SNCB submits all compulsory documents and studies in the context of its sales. SNCB does not have a specific inventory of contaminated land that has been sold over the past five years.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u39	Minister, I am sorry to hear that two of my three questions were not to be answered. According to your answer, SNCB cannot tell us what contaminated property has been sold in recent years. You say that SNCB does not have a specific inventory. SNCB does, of course, have a general inventory of all contaminated land, because it handed it over to the OVAM in 2008. That inventory is somewhere in the drawer; at least I could have been provided with that data. By the way, I also requested it. I also asked for a state of affairs regarding the clean-up of the land which SNCB still owns. I did not get an answer to that either. The only question you have answered concerns the timing of the project. The planned deadline in 2023 will not be reached or not all sites selected by the OVAM will be re-established by then. I'm getting a little worried about that. The Flemish government and local authorities are making great efforts to achieve a clean-up of land. Current files, such as PFOS in Zwijndrecht, also confirm their importance. As an ecological minister, do you agree with me that SNCB has a responsibility there? It is a pity that, for the umpteenth time in a row, Parliamentary questions are not enough to obtain essential information from SNCB. That's not a good trend. The same question for Infrabel, for example, was answered in full, but SNCB is providing more and more information. That's not a good thing. Given the weight of the file, I will look into what other slopes are available to obtain that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u40	Mr Minister, at the end of November 2021 a break-in took place in the Bilzen station building, a building that has been empty for a long time. The burglars forced the door of the technical space, after which a report was sent to the signal house in Hasselt. The building and the counters have not been used for several years. What is the state of play with regard to the re-destination of the building? Has this been discussed with the city council recently? If yes, when and with what result? Are there any discussions with third parties about the future of the building at the moment? If so, can you explain this further? The burglars broke into the tech room. Could this have posed a risk to rail traffic? How is the building protected and in particular the technical space? Have any additional measures been taken after the break-in? If so, which one? Finally, which other station buildings in Limburg are currently empty? Could you also indicate for each of these buildings the prospects for re-destination? Given the digital nature of this meeting, please give me the answer to my last question in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u41	Mr Raskin, there have recently been several consultations between the city of Bilzen and SNCB and Infrabel. The last consultations took place in mid-December 2021. The back office of the counters cannot be placed on the market for the time being as the relay room in the station building is still active. This part of the building is owned by Infrabel. There have been some conversations, but most of the candidates weren't interested in the area of the waiting room, which is twenty meters out of twenty. There was no technical damage to Infrabel's installation and rail traffic was not compromised. The premises with Infrabel's technical installations have a break-in detection system. That also worked, which led Infrabel's staff to go on site. There are still vacant spaces in a number of station buildings. Most station buildings still have a waiting room function and some buildings still have technical installations, such as in Bilzen. As part of the project Life in the station, there will need to be further cooperation with the cities and municipalities in order to be able to fill the empty spaces in the stations. That's a priority for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your specific answers. In my fifth question I asked about the other empty stations. Can you send me a list of these by e-mail?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u43	I suggest that you put a written question to that effect. You will receive the answer as soon as I receive that information from SNCB or Infrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u44	I certainly want to do that, but I'm afraid we'll have to wait months again. Isn't this prepared? Isn't that ready?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u45	I need SNCB's answers to answer the question. We always answer the written questions as soon as possible. However, there are dozens of them a week.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u46	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u47	Mrs Vindevoghel, if aviation is to have a future, it is essential that it reduces its impact on the environment, both in terms of noise and CO2 emissions. That is what I was able to say to my European colleagues at the Transport Council on 9 December. During this Council session, I gave a satisfactory opinion on the European Commission's ReFuel EU Aviation initiative, which is part of the Fit for 55 package aimed at the introduction of sustainable fuels in aviation. I consider it a good step forward towards a carbon-free aviation. However, we must be particularly careful what we mean by sustainable fuels. Biofuels or better agrofuels based on food or fodder are rightly excluded from the European initiative. The way in which advanced agrofuels and synthetic fuels are produced must be given special attention throughout their lives. In addition to the level of CO2 emissions, attention should be paid to socio-economic impacts, biodiversity and respect for human rights. That is what I said to my colleagues, the Ministers for Mobility in Europe and the Commission. To answer your specific questions, the use of hydrogen is applied within Stargate in the framework of projects, both at Brussels Airport and at Toulouse Airport. The focus will be on the use of hydrogen as a fuel for ground handling and for land-based vehicles. In addition, BAC will work with SNCB in the Stargate framework to encourage passenger use but also by staff. In doing so, BAC will work together with SNCB, but also with the airlines concerned, on a clear strategy and on a number of targeted initiatives to improve the air-rail link. Examples include increasing the capacity of the train station, searching for optimization of the offer and increasing the comfort of passengers. Although technology can play a role, it cannot achieve everything. We need to make a real modal shift from aviation to more environmentally friendly modes of transport, such as rail. We need to develop credible and efficient alternatives for short and medium-range flights. This is something I've been working on every day for over a year now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u48	Minister, I looked on the BAC website for information on the project, for which Brussels Airport still receives substantial subsidies. I call for Brussels Airport to be invited to this committee to discuss this in greater depth. Of course, it is not just about aircraft but also about everything related to it. Brussels Airport, for example, wants to electrify more, which is a good thing. I would like to follow that up more closely, and I am in favour of having Brussels Airport explain in our committee what the plans are for the Stargate project grants.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u49	Minister, you want to double the number of freight trains, but it is reported that Lineas, which has a monopoly on 70% of freight traffic, is not so good. The company has a lot of debts and lost 57 million euros in the previous financial year. The previous year was EUR 10 million. Meanwhile, the company is torturing a debt of 270 million. This makes the company worse than the former SNCB Logistics. To dampen the debt well, one wants to sell the trace material to rent it afterwards. For example, 109 out of 250 locomotives and 4,000 out of 7,000 wagons are sold. The majority of the material is sold. The FPIM owns 10% of Lineas' shares. Was she consulted on the decision? Did the FPIM ask for your advice? Were you aware of the operation, given the good contacts with the employer? Do you think there's an effective chance that Lineas will go bankrupt? Do you have a plan ready if necessary? Lineas took over SNCB's material in 2015. That material will now be partly sold. Part of it will never be used on the Belgian railways again. So we risk a shortage of locomotives and wagons, once rail transport attracts. How do you view the situation? Isn't the sale your goal of doubling freight transport by rail not in the way? Isn't the sale really proof of the failure of liberalisation, which is not a good solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u50	Mrs Vindevoghel, we discussed the dossier and my ambition for freight transport at the committee meeting of 7 December 2021, following the discussion of the draft law on the reform of the rail freight support mechanism. As regards the role of the FPIM in the Lineas dossier, I would refer you to the Minister who has the FPIM in his portfolio, namely my good colleague Vincent Van Peteghem, the Minister for Finance. I have no comment on the financial situation of a private operator or its operational management. As far as the impact on the Belgian freight market is concerned, I can assure you that there is no shortage of locomotives and/or coaches and that my ambitions for freight transport are not affected. With regard to the overall economic situation of rail transport, we should not underestimate the effects of the crises and cyclical cycles in the rail sector, as the sector is heavily dependent on them. The COOVID-19 crisis has shown this once again during the lockdown periods. The latest data from the Railway Regulatory Service show that the tonnage transported increased by 3,65 % between 2012 and 2017, following a decrease due to the 2008 financial crisis. As regards the number of companies in the Belgian rail freight market, the Regulatory Service estimates the market share of those companies competing with Lineas at 30%, with a growth of 33% over five years. That evolution is my objective to double rail freight transport by 2030, so it is not in the way. For me, the economic players and the partners in the rail sector are an ally to make the modal shift to rail, with all the benefits that this will bring for the climate, road safety and the economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u51	I will put the question about the FPIM and Lineas to Mr Van Peteghem. You did not really answer the question about Lineas' financial situation, which would not be very good. We are concerned that enlargement and growth may be affected by the financial situation. We do not think that you will achieve your objective in this way, but we will continue to follow up on the dossier in any case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u52	Mr President, Mr Vandenbroucke, firstly, the organisation of the Hackathon was an initiative of the SNCB innovation team, which I fully support. Its realization is a transversal cooperation between different departments. For example, employees of marketing and sales, transport and human resources were involved. We collaborated with the company Leap Forward, part of the Cronos Group, for a number of practical realizations, the website, the surfing and part of the content. Secondly, with this Hackathon, SNCB wanted mainly to attract Bachelor's students from higher education from the creative directions design, marketing, ID and innovation. Students from higher education from other countries could also enrol. Participants had the opportunity to register through the website. After the cape of 95 participants was reached, registrations were discontinued because the maximum capacity had been reached. It called for registration through social media and through universities and colleges of applied sciences. Thirdly, there were internal speakers of the innovation team, as well as the coach of Leap Forward. This fits in with the continuous efforts of SNCB to expand its workforce with various profiles, in order to meet the train traveller's expectations optimally.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I welcome the fact that SNCB is using such innovative ways to attract new profiles. I hope it works, too. I will look into that on another occasion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u54	Mr Minister, a pilot project was launched on 1 December 2021 in the Netherlands by the Dutch Railways (NS). On the platform are signs showing the length and composition of an upcoming train, and also in which direction it will depart. On the platform board you can also see a counter, so that travellers can see how much time they have left to board. In Germany there is a similar system, but only for ICE trains, which cover longer distances. There the composition of these trains is indicated on the platform, so that passengers know where to wait, where to find which class and where to board. The composition can also be consulted via Deutsche Bahn's mobile application. These are two interesting methods, which we do not yet know. In Belgium only the place of the first class carriages is called. The experienced train user knows immediately where the bicycle car is located, because it is usually just before or just behind the first class. At the same time, the scheduled train user is also likely to be able to confirm that the reported information about where the first class is located is very often simply incorrect. It is also often mentioned that certain wagons are not accessible on the platform in some stations, while as soon as the train enters it appears to consist of only a limited number of carriages. I would just like to point out that there is still a great deal of room for improvement in the provision of information. Could such a procedure, with such a provision of information, not also be of interest to the train traveller in our country? What do you think of the Dutch pilot project? Have you talked to SNCB about such an improvement in passenger information? Does SNCB have plans in this direction? Is a pilot project being set up? Meanwhile, the SNCB app has been renewed, but there are still complaints. Will SNCB consider providing additional information in the app, such as the location of the first class carriages and bicycle seats by train, the composition and length of the train?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u55	Mr van den Bergh, you know that both I and SNCB attach great importance to the provision of information to travellers. This is one of the elements needed to make the train even more attractive. SNCB knows that its customers are asking for information about the composition of the trains. There is also the European regulation that will impose certain obligations in this respect. Like neighbouring networks, SNCB invests in systems to meet these information needs. SNCB already has a good idea of what this information should look like for travellers. SNCB is also well aware of the size of such a project. It runs 3,800 trains daily in a normal period. Today there is still a margin of error between the picture of the composition of the planned trains and the trains as they are used effectively. A precise picture of the composition of the trains on departure is necessary, so that it is clear to everyone where customers with disabilities or passengers with bicycles or a first-class ticket can go. SNCB's objective is to achieve in that information a correct percentage of more than 99% at the time of arrival of a train at a station, and more than 95% on the forecasts more than 6 hours before the arrival of a train at a station. That is why SNCB is working on solutions to improve the reliability of information on the train composition recorded in the IT systems. From mid-year onwards, train drivers and drivers will be able to update the train composition more easily after a new release of mobile applications at the start of their work. This first measure should make it possible to improve significantly the quality and reliability of information on train composition, but still without achieving the intended percentage of 99 % of correct information when a train arrives at a platform. Therefore, SNCB is also working on 2 projects to provide accurate and detailed information on train composition by 2024-2025, independently of any manual intervention. The first project aims to introduce a new tool for the planning of equipment enabling the computer system to adapt in real time to changes in equipment resulting from operational incidents. This is supplemented by a second project, which will equip each vehicle with a GPS system which will automatically confirm the exact composition of the convoy and the order of the carriages in it. The combination of these two projects should provide passengers with accurate and reliable information on the order of carriages and their specific characteristics, e.g. class, space for persons with reduced mobility, cycling, etc. This would also give an extra boost to my ambition to strengthen the combination of bike trains. It is therefore the intention of SNCB to communicate information on the train composition to the customers, both via the app, auditory and via the platform screens.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u56	These are high ambitions, Minister, with relatively short-term measures, and a little longer-term ones. That's a positive evolution. We look forward to the result. If the theoretically foreseen composition also appears effectively on the platform, then it would be to everyone's satisfaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u57	Mr Minister, I read recently that the United States wants to require the installation of the technology that prevents driving under the influence of alcohol by 2026. It is a measure of the approved infrastructure package of the Biden Government. Intoxicated drivers shouldn't get behind the wheel after all. What exact technology will be used is not yet fully clear. There has also been an initiative in the European Union. It will be put into practice effectively from next summer, so summer 2022. From then on, each new vehicle will have to be equipped with a standardised connection for alcohol locks. This will make it much easier for an alcohol lock to be built into new cars. Operators of auto-rafts, such as commercial cars or sub-cars, will also be able to choose to install such alcohol locks from that moment on. Those are good evolutions, and that's good news. In the United States, it is estimated that one third of road deaths are due to alcohol-driving. In the European Union, this is estimated to be a fourth. A mandatory alcohol lock for all cars would greatly reduce the number of fatalities and also the need for controls. In itself these are interesting slopes. Minister, how do you view, for example, the introduction of a compulsory alcohol lock for all drivers, whether at European level or not? Is that a possible slope by 2026, as the United States is putting forward? How, in your capacity as Minister of Transport, do you intend to encourage the preventive installation of an alcohol lock? That is also possible today. We do not really have a view of the extent to which this is happening, but it could possibly be further supported or encouraged by the government. Finally, Minister, what position will you take on this issue at European level? Are you more of a voluntarist in order to achieve such a general obligation or rather a supporter of a voluntary installation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u58	Mr Van den Bergh, as you know, road safety is one of my top priorities. Driving under the influence of alcohol is still worrying in our country and remains socially too much accepted. We must fight this phenomenon. To this end, together with my federal and regional colleagues, I have developed road safety plans. For ten years, Belgian judges have been able to allow drinkers only to drive with an alcohol lock. When it comes to sturdy drinkers, who have run into the lamp several times, judges even have an obligation to impose an alcohol lock. In addition, a convicted person who has an alcohol lock installed in his or her vehicle shall be monitored and supervised in a framework programme with a view to providing insight into his or her behaviour and the risks associated with it. Our country thus has one of the most developed systems in Europe when it comes to alcohol locks for convicted persons. Although Sweden and Finland have a longer tradition in the application of alcohol locks, following the American and Canadian example, the majority of European Member States do not yet apply an alcohol lock. However, there is a European harmonised driving licence code which states on the licence that the licence holder must drive an alcohol lock, which Member States must recognise from each other. When asked about their position in a recent European Commission analysis, most Member States indicated that they were not in favour of a mandatory alcohol lock in new vehicles. The consensus that has been achieved is reflected in a European regulation that provides for a standardised connection for alcohol locks, so that they can easily be installed afterwards, starting this summer. I remain in favour of an alcohol lock for sturdy drinkers who pose a danger to other road users. I hope that more and more business fleets and, who knows, public transport will also be equipped with alcohol locks so that the public support for an alcohol lock continues to increase and people, businesses and governments will see the benefits of staying mobile and driving safely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u59	Minister, your answer does not, in itself, contain any new elements, which is somewhat understandable. Sometimes it is worth noting the number of victims still affected by alcohol driving and how much effort all governments are making with police forces to put a stop to that and organise enforcement actions. There's a huge amount of investment in that. If we look at these investments together and the suffering caused by driving under the influence of alcohol, then I think it would be sensible to ask whether a general obligation of an alcohol lock in a car would not make sense. Wouldn't that be a good idea to de facto avoid someone getting behind the wheel under the influence of alcohol? That piste should not be pushed aside for me and can be considered further. At present, we have a policy whereby the alcohol lock is mainly used as a kind of penal measure. It is not merely a punishment, but also a form of guidance, which is important. Maybe we can go a little further and see it as some sort of safety measure, allowing people themselves to put an alcohol lock in their vehicle preventively. We could stimulate that a little bit more. For example, your predecessor was also in favour of equiping buses with alcohol locks, especially when it would carry school children. It was introduced in France. These are slopes that are still worth considering.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u60	Mr van den Bergh, I fully agree with you that we need to step up the fight against drug-driving, as this problem seems to explode on our roads. Too many Belgians still think it is acceptable to drive under the influence of alcohol or drugs. We are dangling below the European average. Together with Minister for the Interior Verlinden, I want to focus even more strongly on more effective and targeted controls, for example at problematic places and times. Think about the nightlife neighborhoods. In accordance with the coalition agreement, I also envisage a greater chance of getting one out of three drivers checked every year in the federal road safety plan. That is a responsibility of the Minister of the Interior. Furthermore, in the case of road accidents, I provide for a standard drug control system. The police are today sufficiently skilled to quickly detect drug use through the drug checklist. If the driver shows signs of drug use, a saliva test and, where appropriate, a saliva analysis will follow. Contacts with other countries teach me that all the European Member States are suffering from more drug use in traffic. However, the approach differs considerably. Good practices are being exchanged, but I am seeking a uniform European approach. Moreover, Belgian testing policy has become more and more performant over the years. The training and knowledge of the police in this area has also increased considerably. These factors can partly help explain the high number of infringements detected. Currently driving under the influence of drugs always implies a subpoena before the court, both for Belgians and foreigners. This type of violation cannot be dealt with by the police or the public prosecutor. As part of the federal road safety plan, I agreed with the Ministers for the Interior and Justice that for foreign drivers who test positive for drug use behind the wheel there will be a designation. This means that they will have to pay a sum in anticipation of their trial, so that they will no longer escape the dance if they default in court and do not pay their fine. More generally, the use of a sum to be given in consignment pending a trial will be examined by the court for other cases where an immediate recovery is currently excluded. Our aim is to strengthen the social standard and prevent the feeling of impunity. Finally, you asked me about technology to extend the principle of alcohol locks to drug use, but that technology is not yet available to me. The identification of drug use is therefore more complex than the determination of alcohol consumption. If that technology is developed one day, I am, of course, prepared to look at it with a view to improving road safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u62	Mr President, Minister, this issue is part of the debate "How can we make our roads safer?" In France, since 1 November 2021, it has been possible, via the administrative authority, to prohibit any operator of an electronic driving aid service, such as GPS, or navigation by geolocation, from disseminating information which would avoid police control which would concern not speed but alcohol, narcotics or persons suspected of terrorist acts or kidnapping. This provision targets well-known applications such as Waze and Coyote. In doing so, France joins a series of European countries already aligned on the subject of radar detectors and how to regulate their visibility by motorists. The government agreement provides for the strengthening of roadside controls and a study on the use of radar detectors. Vias was also mandated to do so. Minister, what's the status of the radar detector study? What are the benefits of this type of prohibition? Do you have any contacts with neighbouring countries, particularly the Netherlands? I am thinking of the size of our country and the interest of this mechanism in certain police operations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u63	Mr Parent, as you know, road safety is a very important priority in my work plan. That is why, together with my federal and regional colleagues, last November, we set up various road safety plans with the same objective "All for zero". I think you were present at the general states that we organized. These plans contain dozens of concrete measures aimed at achieving zero deaths. This is an ambitious goal, which some say utopian, but we must live from utopias by 2050 at the latest. Since then, every day, these measures have been gradually implemented. The possibility of indicating the presence of the police for checks on alcohol, drugs or roadblocks via shared applications does not seem to me to be compatible with the government's desire to increase the chances, or rather the risks, for drivers, of being checked. To be quite precise, the Traffic Police Act already prohibits the use of any system that prevents the detection of traffic offences or of cameras. Communication of the location of speed controls or other roadside checks via social or other networks does not fall under this provision. It is precisely this last point which is the subject of the study that I commissioned from Vias. The Vias study produced an international benchmark, a comparison of practices in different countries, on the possession and use of speed control warning devices and a review of national and international literature on the subject. In addition, a survey of 2,000 Belgian drivers will be carried out on the use and possession of navigation systems, including systems that warn of speed controls. This survey of 2,000 Belgians will consist of a big data study and an experimental study in order to obtain a more detailed picture of the behaviour of drivers in the vicinity of radars, both among those who have an alert system and those who do not. As the results of this study are expected by the end of 2022, I cannot give you the results. I prefer to wait for the results before deciding on the potential benefits of a ban – even if I have a feeling about it – and to consult with neighbouring countries in the context of possible cross-border operations. I have no doubt that we will have an opportunity to discuss it again and I know that I can count on the cooperation of this committee to advance road safety in our beautiful country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u64	Mr Minister, thank you for your answers, particularly with regard to the agenda. I believe that the deployment of these provisions in France can shed some light on Vias' work. This seems to me to be an important step forward in relation to the use of Waze-type applications today. It is a question of responding to a reality: thanks to these applications, controls can be avoided, which is not the aim when one is, for example, under the influence of alcohol. The purpose of the measure is to know how to combat this phenomenon. I will re-examine you in due course to know the progress of the Vias study.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u65	Mr Minister, I would point out that there is no fault in the title of the question: we are talking about more than 300 km/h. This may seem surprising, but that's what happened recently in Bassenge, where a vehicle was reported at 306 km/h. However, our radars are approved for vehicles which do not exceed 300 km/h, so that there has been no physical proof of the offence or identification of the driver. This case raises the question of the royal decree but also of the physical possibilities of radars. This ability to break the law is quite challenging, as we travel at hypersonic speeds. Mr Minister, do you have any answers to be given, not only legally but also technically, in relation to the sanctioning of this type of behaviour, of which I should not recall the danger.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u66	My colleague, you are talking about dangerousness, but there is also the unacceptable nature of the situation. I was as shocked as you were to learn that a driver had been registered at more than 300 km/h. Of course, I strongly condemn this kind of irresponsible attitude which seriously endangers the lives of others, beyond the life of the driver and his possible passengers. Apart from this individual action, of course, the question arises of the relevance of cars that are increasingly heavier, more powerful, faster and more dangerous for road safety. What is the use of producing cars that can drive up to 300 km/h while the maximum speed on roads is limited to 120 km/h in our country? This is a more fundamental question which must be asked and which I ask, whenever I have the opportunity, to carmakers. As regards the legal basis for punishing such behaviour, the Royal Decree of 12 October 2010 on the approval, verification and installation of measuring instruments used to monitor the implementation of the Law on the Road Traffic Police and the decrees issued pursuant to it should instead be considered. In Annex 2 to this Royal Order, it is stipulated that beyond the manufacturer's maximum speed of 300 km/h for Class D radars such as the radar in question, which bears the sweet name of NK7, the aircraft must indicate, possibly by code, that the observed speed is greater than the maximum measuring range. For example, current legislation does not preclude a car being flashed at a speed greater than 300 km/h. A report indicating that the measured speed is greater than the approved maximum speed range of the apparatus may be established. This report may allow the judge to pronounce a possible sentence. There is therefore no impunity in principle for a driver driving at a speed exceeding 300 km/h. However, the problem is that the NK7 radar does not take a photo when the speed is above 300 km/h. This gap could be filled by software modification. To obtain information on this subject, I would refer you to the Minister of Economy, who is responsible for the certification of cameras on motorways, to the regional ministers responsible for road certification and to my colleague, the Minister of the Interior, who is responsible for the police and therefore for public procurement for the purchase of this type of radar. In any case, solutions exist. There is really a way to limit this type of symbol that is totally detrimental to our commitment to greater road safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u67	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the clarifications you have made. I understand that the task of inquiry must continue by addressing different levels of authority and your colleagues, which I will certainly do. You recalled the physical limitations of the vehicles and questioned the appropriateness of driving vehicles that could exceed the legal speeds. In this respect, action on speed limiters in vehicles should be taken at European level. I have no doubt about your ability to question your European counterparts and the Commission on this issue of road safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u68	Minister, the difficulties in DGLV are not new. In 2016 there was an audit of KPMG that revealed a lot of issues and five years later the situation doesn't seem much better. For example, since 1 July 2021, DGLV should no longer take pilot examinations following a negative audit by the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA). Due to the high workload there is also a high staff turnover. The high number of DGs and Interim DGs in recent years is exemplary. Also the head of the Drones cell has recently left. That's not the first time. Within the category of the drones, the process of validating a Specific Operations Risk Assessment (SORA) is very problematic according to the information I get. For some pilots it takes more than nine months to get an SORA validated. The process would be so time-consuming due to a lack of digitisation and process follow-up. There are also many complaints about the difficult accessibility of DGLV throughout the aviation community. Because so much is going wrong, everyone wants to speak to DGLV, whatever goes through the processes, and this threatens to get into a downward vicious circle. I therefore have the following important questions, Minister, in view of the signs that continue to come about about the difficult functioning of the service. How do you intend to address the problems of DGLV in the relatively short term? A possible solution that could be introduced easily, quickly and at no extra cost is the use of independent inspection companies or Qualifying Entities, which would take over a limited number of specific tasks. This solution is already being used by several European countries today. Just as the government does not do the car inspection itself, but which delegates to the private market, this could also be a solution to certain tasks that are still being carried out by DGLV itself today. What are your views on such a solution? Are you willing to investigate this slope? Finally, how will the accessibility of DGLV be increased and the time limits for applying for permits shortened?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u69	Mr Van den Bergh, as you said, the problems in DGLV are well known and not new. I have inherited a particularly difficult situation, which became even more acute after the EASA audit. In my policy paper you can read on page 31 that there is a plan for a reorganisation of DGLV and that I want to provide a strong response to this unacceptable situation. Following this negative audit, I immediately took all the necessary measures to strengthen the DGLV services. The Council of Ministers approved my proposal to employ 25 additional full-time equivalents so that DGLV can carry out its tasks in full. The selection of these new employees is now underway. However, the difficulties encountered in managing applications are not the sole responsibility of DGLV. As regards SORA applications, DGLV informs me that the delay is mainly due to the applicants themselves. Figures show that less than 15% of applications are correctly completed and meet the requirements of the European Regulation. DGLV therefore devotes a great deal of time to informing potential joint venture operators about the difficulties of carrying out certain operations safely. DGLV will intensify its actions to inform and respond to drone operators, for example through explanatory videos. As far as DGLV and EASA are aware, no Member State currently uses independent inspection companies, known as qualified entities. If such an activity were to be awarded to the private sector, this should be done in accordance with rules that allow for a transparent and competitive procedure, such as a public contract or a concession contract, but also an assessment of the candidates' ability. Setting up these processes takes some time, making sure that this option is not a short-term solution. The treatment time of a mandatory licence application depends not only on DGLV, but also on the complexity of the operation, its maturity and the quality of the file submitted. The DGLV informs me that it is now intended to inform the applicant much more quickly if the quality of the file submitted does not allow the authorisation requested to be granted. Moreover, the additional recruitments decided upon by the government in my proposal will strengthen the expertise of DGLV and its services to citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u70	Thank you for your answer, which recognises the problems and states that efforts are being made to improve them. That's a good thing. It is a bit problematic that the ball is played back on the SORAs if the application would not happen in a good way. It's good to sit around the table with each other. There is an interest organisation of drone operators. With a good conversation, maybe a lot could be solved there. The same applies to the Qualifying Entities. A good dialogue between the sector and DGLV could help to achieve a good service. Hopefully, we will be able to count on that in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u71	Mr. Chair, Minister, this is an issue that could have been related to Mr. Arens', as it affects accessibility and the digital divide, particularly for older people. On 1 December 2021, SNCB implemented its decision of early 2021 to close many railway stations. In the province of Luxembourg, the largest Belgian province, there are only three more accessible outlets (Arlon, Libramont and Marloie), and again, not necessarily full-time! The province is more than greatly affected by this decision of the Board of Directors. Here, as elsewhere, travellers only have the option of using an online purchase or from an automated terminal. The Marloie station counter, one of the few not destined to disappear in the province, has recently caught fire, perhaps as a sign of protest. Since then, the counter employee, in order to make himself/herself useful, has performed his/her function by staying close to the machine. And the point is clear: his assistance is welcome! In December, I was also questioned by the Luxembourg socio-professional integration centres, which deplore the lack of accessibility of automata for anyone who has difficulty reading or interacting with digital tools. In particular, they reported the example of people in precarious situations, who found themselves systematically taking a train ticket much more expensive than what they were entitled to, only because of a lack of understanding of the machine. So it is not the machine that works badly, it is the understanding of it that is not simple. These two observations lead to the same conclusion: the solution of automatons is only suitable for a part of the population, that which is not the victim of the digital divide. A solution could be, at each station whose ticket office has been closed (in whole or in part), by means of a videoconference call button, which would enable the passenger to reach a point of call at a distance, able to advise and assist the traveller in the purchase of his ticket. Minister, can you confirm that all stations in the province of Luxembourg are equipped with an automatic? I'm not absolutely sure. Do you agree that closing windows creates a digital divide among the population using (or wanting to use) public transportation? Are accompanying measures in preparation? Are there ways to improve the automation systems, to make them more accessible and comprehensible, under consideration? Would it be possible to affix a help button, which would put the user in contact with a SNCB employee, by video conferencing? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u72	Minister, in order to remedy the problems caused by the closure of the Saint-Ghislain station counter, SNCB has been offering travellers since December 1, 2021 to go to the local post office counter to obtain an application form or a discount card. This is an aid which the some 2300 commuters passing through the Saint-Ghislain train station daily could previously benefit directly at the railway station's counter before the station finally closed, to the great dismay of staff and travellers. Although this partnership between SNCB and bpost is an alternative solution for commuters, it must be recognised that this pilot project is far from convincing the local authorities concerned. In Saint-Ghislain, the mayor deplores in particular the weakness of the offer of the services that are offered and adds that this pilot project "will not compensate for the closure of the window and will leave aside all people, especially the older ones, who are not turned to digital." Minister, why are the services offered by this pilot project aimed only at discount cards and help complete a subscription application form? What accompanying measures are being taken by the SNCB to facilitate the transition within the municipalities which are victims of the abolition of their windows? In Saint-Ghislain, what is the result of the consultation between SNCB and the municipal authorities in order to guarantee the accessibility, safety and reception of travellers and to preserve the specific social role which was previously fulfilled by the presence of the ticket office?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u73	Thank you to the four colleagues for their questions, and congratulations to Mr Vajda for his patience, since he has been with us since the beginning of the session. As you know, the accessibility of all, young and old, to our stations and trains is one of my top priorities. The fight against the digital divide is also one of my concerns and is widely discussed with SNCB in the context of the ongoing negotiations on the future public service contract. I inherit a situation that I change every day. Faced with the SNCB's decision last February to close a series of windows, I was keen to make the transition as smooth as possible for travellers, to take into account the digital divide and to ensure that the stations concerned continue to play a role in the social fabric. I am referring here to the stations concerned, but also to the stations whose windows were previously closed. This will has been realized and realized in two ways. Firstly, in the short term, I asked for and obtained a series of measures to accompany this closure, such as maintaining assistance for people with reduced mobility at the proposed stations, maintaining open and heated waiting rooms, extending their opening hours or maintaining the spaces three to five times a week. Information sessions were also held for travellers who would not normally use SNCB's sales machines and other sales channels such as apps and the website. Stewards informed the travellers and explained how these automatons work, on the understanding that we were also in a particular situation related to the Covid-19. Secondly, in the medium and long term, I have asked SNCB to make systematic contact with all the municipalities concerned, in order to find solutions for the conversion of closed windows and to make the stations as lively as possible. Calls for projects adapted to the local context have been launched, and SNCB provides me with a regular report on its contacts with the municipalities concerned. As part of this project, many local and various activities were presented. These are activities of general interest of a social nature, as is the case in Jette or Leuze, or services to the population as in Gouvy, or commercial initiatives, with the particular feature that railway station buildings can be made available free of charge to non-profit organisations or public authorities. Mr Thiébaut, Mrs Rohonyi, I have also asked SNCB to enter into a dialogue with bpost in order to envisage a collaboration between these two public undertakings, in consultation and with the support of my colleague, Mrs De Sutter. It is in this context that since 1 December, a pilot project has been carried out in Saint-Ghislain and another in Liedekerke to allow SNCB travellers to travel to the post office for assistance in more complex operations such as completing a subscription application form or obtaining discount cards. Bpost will send different requests to SNCB customer service who will contact the traveller concerned to follow up on his request. This pilot project led by SNCB and bpost concerns, for the moment, four discount cards that specifically target an audience for which it is more difficult to move to another station. This is the case, for example, with the Priority card for seating for persons with reduced mobility or the Free Attendant card for persons with visual impairment. I would like to highlight positively this pilot project led by bpost and SNCB, which has the potential to improve service to travellers, especially for the elderly and disadvantaged. Like any pilot project, it will have to be evaluated, adjusted and, perhaps – I hope, at least – generalized. With regard to the occupation of the Saint-Ghislain station, a consultation between SNCB and the city of Saint-Ghislain has been under way since last December in order to mention, Mr. Thiébaut, the tracks of occupation of the premises available in the station. I would also like to point out that a concession has recently been renewed at Saint-Ghislain station. It allows the maintenance of a train station buffet that meets certain needs of the passengers and energizes the building. The ongoing discussions aim to result in additional occupation for other spaces available within the railway station building. Mr Vajda, to answer your specific and relevant questions about the use of automatons, I would like to reiterate once again that it is essential for me that these automatons be easily accessible and easy to use, and that they automatically guarantee the cheapest price. In this regard, SNCB constantly strives to improve the value of the optimal price on the various channels. A message also informs the customer when another ticket is cheaper for the same trip. I confirm that sales machines are available at all stations in the beautiful province of Luxembourg, as is the case in the rest of the country. This is also reflected in SNCB's current management contract. Today, it is already possible for people with difficulties to contact SNCB's Customer Service in order to obtain direct assistance from an automaton, through a simple call. The operator can then take control of the operations remotely and provide all necessary assistance to the traveller, in the selection of his journey and his fare. It is a faculty that may be too little known, but the publicity given to our work may allow it to be used more. For the future, SNCB is in the process of studying the new generation of automation machines which must offer an even more modern and intuitive interface for travellers, with the possibility, which is not yet a commitment, for the customer, to contact a SNCB operator via video link and visual contact. This possibility is being explored. The implementation of these new automatons is expected to take place at the earliest in 2023. We are at the stage of the study and initial contacts for a public procurement. In addition, the current management contract for SNCB, which dates back to 2008, contains too few provisions for the reception of passengers at the station, which I would like to amend and which is on the agenda of discussions with SNCB. One of my objectives is precisely to conclude this new public service contract with SNCB. Its signature is expected in the course of the year. A chapter will specifically address reception and station services with particular attention to the digital divide.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u74	Minister, thank you for these specific answers. I am obviously pleased that you confirm to me the priority of your concerns regarding the fight against the digital divide, which exists, but not only, within SNCB. Don't worry, I never considered you to be responsible for either this digital divide or SNCB's previous decisions. You arrive with an existing situation and you have to deal with it well. You briefly referred to the strengthening of assistance for people with reduced mobility. This was not the subject of my question, but since you are tending to me the pole, there is still a lot of work to be done in this regard, especially in my home province, for example, to cross the stairs that pass under the track and I take only this example. On the main question I asked you, I thank you for the answer you gave me and I thank you for telling me that the system already exists but that it is still too little known. I'm a little surprised because I had never seen or noticed myself, but I don't think I'm a victim of the digital divide. Even if it exists and it is a very good point, it still needs to be strengthened – you are aware of it – and above all, to strengthen its publicity and its effectiveness so that as many people as possible can benefit from it. Thanks to this, we may be able to maintain not only a little humanity in our stations but above all an effective service for the rail user.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u75	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply, which I will certainly report to the local authorities of Saint-Ghislain. Combining bpost services with SNCB services is not a bad idea. However, it seems to me appropriate to establish a post office in a station. Moving commuters from the station to a post office that is not necessarily close to the railway tracks is not particularly rational. It is also essential that, for the future development of small and medium-sized stations, consultation with local authorities be considered. This is fundamental because they can then propose plans to occupy the premises. There is nothing worse than leaving a railway building abandoned: it degrades and in the end gives a bad image of the rail.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u76	Minister, thank you for your answer, although I am a little disappointed. You have mainly referred to the accompanying measures that you had already announced in the debate on this measure leading to the closure of 44 railway stations. You recalled the positive measures – maintaining heated waiting rooms or organizing information sessions for people who are not used to automatons – but which result in a contrast between your laudable objectives (combating the digital divide, assisting and better supporting people with reduced mobility) and the measures that are being observed on the ground, in this case this pilot project with bpost in Saint-Ghislain. You state that this project is reserved for those audiences for whom it is particularly difficult to travel. If you went there, you would realize that this post office is more than 400 metres from the station. It's not nothing when you're a person with reduced mobility, not to mention the risk for other people to miss their train because they had to travel back and forth to that office. I expected more from this pilot project. How long would it last? When would he be evaluated? Could we imagine that in the long run, this pilot project could be extended to stations where a very short distance between the station and a post office is observed? All of this to tell you, minister, that your answer does not appease my fears that this station in Saint-Ghislain will in particular empty itself even though it has just been renovated, with all the consequences that this can entail in terms of safety and feeling of insecurity. Like my colleague, I invite you to continue your consultation with the municipalities. That is what you promised in our debate on the closure of railway stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u77	Minister, thank you. Today, there are 91 stations with counters. This is not a development in recent months. It's been going on for about ten years. Although last year's decision has been largely commented on, there is a substantive blade at the SNCB level. Management contracts must allow for an inflection with this question of reception at railway stations. Thank you for repeating the subject. There are 680 post offices in the territory. It's in the bpost management contract. In this context, bpost seeks to diversify its activities in order to make digital inclusion, digital accompaniment of the inhabitants. This may relate to SNCB train tickets, but it may also relate to banking services. How to evolve these bpost offices to help citizens in situations of digital vulnerability. These are cross stakes that can join. In this context, the pilot project seems to me interesting, but above all interesting to expand in order to offer more access not only to train tickets but also to other services, all over Belgium. In this sense, I invite you to continue this collaboration and I will closely follow the results of this pilot project with bpost.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u78	Question No 55023226 by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u79	Minister, the Eeklo-Ronse line is the busiest diesel line and the most polluting railway in the country in terms of passenger transport. The railway line runs from Eeklo to Ronse and must be electrified as soon as possible, as has also been shown by previous studies, if we are to support and take our climate policy seriously. Electric trains have the advantage that they are more environmentally friendly, quieter for local residents and comfort for travellers. The MW41 sets, which operate the line today, also emit too much according to current European standards. They may continue to drive Europe, but they must be replaced as a matter of urgency. A major overhaul of engines would no longer be allowed under European rules. In other words, in the event of a serious breakdown of the locomotives, either new diesel locomotives must be ordered or electrified. How old are the MW41 diesel trains operating the Eeklo-Ronse route? How many such locomotives does SNCB still have in service? How will SNCB react when there is a serious breakdown or an accident? Will it order or buy new diesel trains or will it immediately electrify them? Are there any concrete plans to electrify the line? If so, when would the works take place? Has the necessary budget been allocated for this? Over the summer, works were carried out in the tunnel of Louise-Marie between Ronse and Oudenaarde. In doing so, no future electrification has been taken into account. Why didn't that happen? Was it a budget issue? Is there a scenario in which the trajectory would be electrified from Eeklo to Oudenaarde but not between Oudenaarde and Ronse, given last summer's tunnel works? The trail between Ronse and Oudenaarde is a single track. A double track is therefore needed to increase rail traffic between the two cities. Are there any plans in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u80	I have visited the famous tunnel in question and there is no room for two tracks. There is indeed still work to be done on electrification. Nevertheless, I would like to stress once again that the Belgian network is leading and 90% has already been electrified. As I said in my reply to the oral questions at the committee meeting of 13 July 2021, SNCB has 94 dual motor cars of the type diesel train MW41 built by Alstom between 2000 and 2002. They are not that old and are the only diesel engines still in service. They are currently used in Charleroi, Hasselt, Hamont and around Ghent on the Eeklo-Ronse line. A general midliferevision is underway in the central workshop of Salzinnes in the province of Namur. Since 2015, 42 motor cars have undergone a general overhaul. SNCB is not currently planning any specific new investments in this traction. I also refer to the FPS Mobility study on alternatives to passenger transport on the non-electricised lines in our country. Both SNCB and Infrabel consider the different options to reduce the remaining share of diesel traction as quickly as possible. Indeed, last summer maintenance work was carried out. They were needed. The length profile of the line is constructed in such a way that electrification is possible. A possible electrification has therefore been taken into account, which is not yet planned in the short term. However, that is only for one track. The tunnel is not wide enough to build a double track that meets current standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u81	The railway line between Mol and Hamont was electrified; but diesel trains are still running today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u82	That's not a good thing. Colleagues van Groen have taken action for electrification. In the light of the government plans, I have already argued for more budget, we want to achieve full electrification faster, which can help to achieve the climate targets. The fact that no budget is allocated for this purpose and that projects of this kind are again being postponed is a pity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u83	Minister, on 14 December the European Commission proposed its new action plan which should provide a real boost for international rail traffic. Many thresholds for international trains have been known for a long time. According to this announcement, we can expect a lot of legislative initiatives from the European level to tackle them. This concerns, for example, complicated ticket sales, the lack of accessible information on services and the operational thresholds at the borders of the different Member States. The Commission would also recast the TEN-T Directive in order to move more towards high-speed lines and intermodality and the European Investment Bank would take the initiative to invest in rail infrastructure. Moreover, the Commission highlights the possibility of setting up public service obligations (PSOs), which it used to be more sceptical about. That all seems very promising. I am therefore very curious to see what impact this could have on our policy in Belgium. I have a few questions about this. How do you receive the European Commission's new action plan? Will Belgium, in the negotiations on this legislation, draw a full picture of the interests of travellers and thus encourage carriers to show greater transparency and flexibility? What projects could be eligible for investment by the European Investment Bank? What impact could the recast of the TEN-T Directive have on projects in our country? How do you feel about setting up a PSO for international train traffic? Which train connections could require this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u84	Mrs Buyst, you will not be surprised that I welcomed the European Action Plan with enthusiasm. The action plan is very much in line with the ambition of me and the government in the field of international night train transport. I am glad that we can join forces in the interests of the train traveller. This shows the Commission's commitment to achieving these ambitious objectives, and it also comes with a concrete roadmap that provides for actions to be undertaken mainly over the next two years. With regard to the interests of travellers, we can say that they are covered in detail in the Commission's action plan. I am thinking, for example, of better timetables and simplifying the purchase of a digital international ticket. I fully agree with you that flexibility and transparency should be at the heart of the offer. We will of course give the best possible support to the initiatives contained in the action plan. It is essential that the traveller has a central place, because the success of the modal shift towards the railway depends on the passengers. Belgium should be as proactive as possible, including for the interests of the traveller. With regard to projects eligible for the European Investment Bank, we are thinking primarily of the purchase of new M7 vehicles by SNCB. This ongoing project can serve as a model for the future. On the TEN-T regulation, published on 14 December, we can only communicate at this stage that we have started to assess it. It is therefore too early to be able to give further answers. With regard to the issue of a PSO, a public service obligation, for international rail traffic, it is important to take into account current European legislation to establish a PSO connection. The relevance of the existing rules will be considered at European level. For me, the result is a more robust offer of international night trains in Europe. With this action plan, it gets an extra boost, as with the two million in the budget to support international connections, especially night trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u85	Minister, the train must indeed become the most logical choice for travel within Europe. Europe is aware of this, and this is also proof of this approval. Europe will also look at a great deal of legislation in this regard. As you said, the road map is needed because we are still missing a great deal of opportunities in the way we can shape our rail traffic. I am also pleased that you realise that joining forces is the best way to achieve good results. The proactivity you mentioned also fully supports our group. In this way, Brussels can become the European hub for international rail transport. I have another suggestion. Train companies need to think much more travellers-oriented and dare to reduce thresholds, so that it is easier to book tickets from here to the boot of Italy or to the north of Sweden. I am convinced that the potential of international rail traffic will only increase.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u86	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, SNCB informs me that the three escalators for platforms 1, 2-3 and 4-5 were installed at the end of last year. During the re-examination the temporary handrails were approved, but a small problem has been identified that Schindler has to solve. This will happen soon, after which the escalators can be put into service.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u87	That is good news, Minister. It was actually planned for three months ago, so I hope that the escalators can be put into operation quickly. This is a necessity for rail passengers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u88	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Rigot's 55023524C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u89	Mr Thiébaut, on 9 December 2021, France and Belgium signed a declaration of intent on the reopening of the Mons-Valenciennes freight rail line. I'm sure you're as happy as I am. This signature follows my meeting last May with my French counterpart Jean-Baptiste Djebari. During this meeting, Minister Djebari and I confirmed our common will on this issue, which enabled us to relaunch a dialogue that was at a standstill and allowed our services to talk to each other. It is necessary to move forward on this issue in order to double by 2030 the volume of goods transported by rail. This objective is more broadly part of our federal government's ambitious climate policy. With this letter of intent, we ask Infrabel and SNCF Réseau to study the technical feasibility of reopening the cross-border section of the line, each in its respective territory. As you know, there is only 750 metres of rail missing on the Belgian side and about 2 km on the French side. In practical terms, these technical feasibility studies are intended to identify the work to be carried out in order to put the section back into service, to draw up the budget necessary to carry out them and to fix the planning for them. Capacity studies on the potential for traffic absorption of the two networks should also be carried out. The monitoring of these studies and of the good progress of the project will be carried out by a steering body involving all the local actors concerned. These various stages will begin very soon and will allow us to have the most accurate view possible of the means to return to service the border point of Quiévrain. As far as the Belgian budget is concerned, resources are already provided for in Infrabel's investment budgets and simply need to be updated. On the French side, as you mentioned, following my meeting with the French minister, the living forces are working to find the necessary means. On the reopening of this Mons-Valenciennes line as on other files, you can count on my will and determination. I welcome the good contacts with the French colleagues on this issue. We now need to make concrete progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u90	Thank you very much, Minister. You know this is a case that I care about. Since I was a Member of Parliament, in other words, since 2007, I have been working on the reopening of this line, and my predecessors in the region were already doing so before me. It is therefore a dossier that is dated and which I would like to see finally realized, and it is not you, as an environmental minister, that I must convince you of the usefulness of the transport of freight by rail. That being said, I think that many studies have already been carried out and that, on the part of Infrabel, we are ready. You even said that the budgets were planned. I think that it is rather on the French side that we still have to find the means and that there has been more reluctance, but on the Belgian side, I think that we are already ready and that we would no longer need much study to be able to make the Belgian part of this dossier a reality. In any case, I welcome your voluntarism in this matter, and I really count on you to maintain the pressure until it is realized.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u91	Mr Thiébaut, the SNCB informs me that the preparation of the sales file for the site of the Quiévrain station is now in its final phase. In accordance with the principle of transparency and equality, SNCB will call for tenders. The sale will be made in accordance with these principles, of course. SNCB plans to publish this year's call for tenders for the upgrading of the station building and adjacent land.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u92	Mr Minister, thank you very much, it is good news, but your predecessors had already given me the same speech. I am therefore a little worried, because it has now been almost 30 years since this station was completely abandoned. I know, it's not your fault. The building is deteriorating more and more. The old windows are walled by concrete blocks. There's graffiti. This really becomes infected for commuters and it does not commit to taking the train. It would be high time we finally finalized one of the many projects that have been launched to restore a life to this building that has a certain character. I'm telling you, it's really way too long. In my view, it is not acceptable that this should take years or even decades to implement a project to renovate a building such as this one. But I thank you for paying attention to the follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u93	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, the SNCB informs me that work at the Mons station is continuing and that the metal structure is now up. The painting and some finishings will continue in the first quarter of 2022. The closure of the envelope including the cover and the façade elements is being completed. Only the covers of the awnings at the north and south ends of the station will continue until June 2022. Interior design work will begin in early 2022 and is expected to be completed in June 2023. In the case of the wharfs, the large work and the mounting of the metal frames are completed. The second stage of construction involving the work of covering, paving and renewal of the wharf equipment began in December 2021 with Pier No. 1. This work is carried out under the guise of decommissioning of long-term tracks. The general principle of planning for this phase is to complete all the work of a wharf before starting the next wharf. This work will take place throughout 2022. The assembly of the elevators and escalators began in September 2021 with the installation of the fixed metal frames of the elevators and will continue at the same time with the completion of the wharfs by the installation of the glazings and the lift cabins. The escalators will be routed and laid from March 2022. At the parking lot level, the big work is over. Technical equipment including lighting, ventilation, access control and fire and intrusion security is being installed. The completion work on screeds, markings, carpentry and finishing began in September 2021. The construction of the access road to the North car park on the Grands Prés side is in the process of completion. The aim is to be able to put this car park into service by the end of the first quarter of 2022. The South car park can only be put into service at the end of the project, i.e. at the end of 2023, since the realization of one of its accesses requires the dismantling of the temporary reception facilities. With regard to the development of the approaches, the first tranche of the joint market with the city of Mons relating to the development of the Place des Congrès was allocated in June 2021. Work is under way and will continue until August 2022. The order for the second tranche of the market for the development of Leopold Square was approved by the municipal college on 29 December 2021 and will be notified in the course of January 2022 (if this has not already been done), with a view to beginning work in March of that year. According to the current schedule, work is expected to take place until June 2023. SNCB confirms to me that the general objective remains the commissioning of the new station – the old one continues to be in service – in the second half of 2023. Although I have not been at the origin of this work and investment, I will nevertheless be happy to celebrate the end of it. Mr Thiébaut, I would like to conclude by repeating what I have already said in the past. The waste of public money at pharaonic stations is over! We need to manage public money properly. The station of the future must be functional, multimodal and accessible to all. We will complete the work of the Mons station. We will not proceed with such projects in this Parliament, and I hope that we will not do so either in the context of the following.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u94	Minister, thank you very much. By the way, if you could make a little gesture for the station of Quieurrain which is much less pharaonic, it would be good too! Indeed, this has been going on for thirty years. I think this time, we can be optimistic. I must admit that for ten years now, every time I questioned your predecessors, the successively announced dates were postponed as I asked my questions in committee. The last time I was told it would be for 2021, then 2022. You're telling me it'll be for 2023. This time, I believe you. I'm a commuter. I take the train very regularly to Mons, several times a week to go to Parliament, and I do see that companies are active and that the construction site really seems to be moving forward. One thing is certain, we must now finish this project. Nevertheless, it will still be up to you to cut the ribbon!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u95	As you said, Mr President, it is important that we are on the ground and that we know what is happening. The same applies to Brussels Airlines. On 20 December, I was on the staff's action, which has been negotiating with the management for six months to improve working conditions. However, no progress has yet been made. I think this is an important file. Brussels Airlines received public money through the FPIM. Then it must also respect the agreements, I think, and respect the collective agreements. Brussels Airlines has fired over 1,000 people in the restructuring process. And what do we see now? That there are actually too few people, that working conditions are very precarious, and that people do not get enough rest periods. Those are all things that are not going well at the moment, and the consultation is in the middle of something. My questions to you, Minister, are as follows. Firstly, is it true that Brussels Airlines wants to employ other airlines' personnel on its own flights through the wet lease agreement? If so, how do you feel about that? What is the government's position in this matter? I recall that we said in the debate on funding that there should be conditions attached to it. Isn't it important that our own staff keep their jobs? Secondly, now that Brussels Airlines is making a profit again, and the expectation is that everything will go smoothly again by the summer, will you ensure that working conditions are respected, which is not the case now?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u96	Mrs Vindevoghel, Brussels Airlines is a private company over which the Belgian State has no control. As regards FPIM's support for Brussels Airlines, I would refer you to my colleague, Vincent Van Peteghem, the Minister of Finance, who is responsible for monitoring FPIM aid. Furthermore, I always respect the social dialogue. In reply to your questions, DGLV informed me that a wet lease agreement is the leasing of an aircraft and its crew members, the latter being inextricably linked to the aircraft. These practices are regulated by European regulations and are very expensive for airlines. Only technical and administrative approval by DGLV is required. The data provided by DGLV show that Brussels Airlines has rarely used this type of rental in the past and, moreover, only occasionally, mainly in the event of technical problems or exceptionally busy destinations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u97	Minister, if a company borrows money from a government, it must be transparent and ensure that employment is guaranteed. You say it is a private company, but we were just talking about the DGLV and the fact that there is understaffing. Because there are often too few staff now, rest periods are not even respected. Then it's about a security problem. Yesterday I got a phone call from people in the company who told me that the employer doesn't even want to meet the unions about the performance anymore. That's punishment, isn't it? Performance is crucial both for the working conditions of staff and for the safety of passengers. So I hold my heart that there are no matters that pose risks to safety. You must be concerned about that. Indirectly, because there is no consultation between employer and workers on rest periods, there is a danger to safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u98	Excuse me, Mrs. Vindevoghel, but that was not your question. DGLV is doing its work on Brussels Airlines and on security issues. I'm not a shareholder of Brussels Airlines.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u99	It's a consequence, though.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u100	You must ask my colleague, the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u101	Tomorrow then, anyway. The security problem is a consequence of what I asked in my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u102	Mr Minister, we have often talked about flight tax. The fee is entered in the 2022 budget for an amount of EUR 30 million and from 2023 for an amount of EUR 40 million. We now hear that the flight tax will be between EUR 2 and EUR 10. That is a flat tax, as I have already indicated. It's an antisocial measure. There is also no alternative to the tax. Anyone who comes by train to the airport today will even be financially punished. The Diabolo surcharge of 5.7 euros single ride will be higher than the flight tax for the long distance. I can't explain that to people anymore. I have three questions. First of all, is the flight tax real? Would you mind explaining the tax? Secondly, will the flight tax also apply to cargo flights? Thirdly, will the flight tax also apply to the private jets?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u103	Minister, the matter has already been slightly outlined by Mrs Vindevoghel. There have already been a lot of questions and interplays about the flight tax because of me. To date, only the amounts of the tax are known. Nothing substantive could ever be said about the modalities. We must now read in the press that there would be a final plan. My questions to you are therefore the following. Is it true there's a plan on the table? Is it also true that the plan targets passengers not only for short-haul flights but also for long-distance flights? Are the amounts of EUR 10 in the press available for a flight of less than 500 kilometres, EUR 2 for a flight of more than 500 kilometres with a final destination within the European Economic Area and EUR 4 for destinations outside Europe? Do those amounts make sense? Minister, are you or are your services involved in the plan? What is the logic behind the price structure? Have any evaluations or studies been made that led to the plan? I have two small questions. Mr President-in-Office, how do you explain the sudden turnaround in which not only short-haul flights are targeted? What alternative modes do you see to replace long-distance flights?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u104	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, Mr Toventors, during the last budgetary conclave, the federal government decided on a boarding fee for those taking the plane. As is sometimes the case with a budgetary conclave, the modalities of this contribution have not yet been fully defined and are still being worked out by the Minister for Finance, who is responsible for taxation. So I don't have any new information I can share with you, but you can always ask him a question. The principle of this boarding fee is fully in line with the government's ambition to combat short-haul flights. After all, they are an ecological and economic aberration. With this contribution, Belgium, like its neighbours, is finally implementing a tax system in those more environmentally friendly modes of transport, such as the train. Indeed, aviation enjoys significant tax exemptions and subsidies which constitute unfair competition for other modes of transport, such as the train. As Minister for Mobility, I would like to support alternatives to flying to make rail the backbone of mobility in Belgium and in Europe. That is what I am doing by reinvigorating trains in our country, including cross-border rail links, by supporting night trains and by adapting European regulations by calling at European level for the revision of the current tax exemption on kerosene.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u105	Minister, you did not answer the question as to whether this flight tax applies to cargo and private jets.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u106	I cannot answer this question because the work is still under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u107	In the meantime, we have already asked you a written question concerning the private jets. We are surprised at the high number of flight movements. You gave those figures to us. In 2019 these were 71,000 flight movements in Belgium, in 2021 that of course failed because of corona. That's about one civilian flight out of eight in the last year. We would therefore like to propose that the flight tax should not be introduced for ordinary workers, but for the people with a lot of money. That would be a jettak making the super rich pay, not the ordinary workers, as long as there is no alternative. The problem is, of course, that there is no alternative at the moment. If someone takes the train from Brussels to the airport, they have to pay 5 euros on top of it. This does not even encourage people to take the train to the airport. In that respect, there are a lot of other things to settle before we move to a flat tax for ordinary people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u108	Mrs. Vindevoghel, you're quite a hunter for something that isn't necessary. The Minister simply can't help it. The questions will all have to be asked to Minister Van Peteghem. In the beginning there was nothing known about the modalities at all, while we now hear that it is not yet fully known. We're evolving from nothing to nothing at all. Other than that, there's no new intel. For the rest, we must go to Minister Van Peteghem. Our Minister of Mobility is there and looking at it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u109	Nor will Minister Van Peteghem be able to reply until a decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u110	"Mr President, Minister, on December 17, the Board of Directors of SNCB was to endorse the absorption of the Eurogare subsidiary. This is the outcome of an integration process. The activities of Eurogare, including the monitoring of the Namur and Mons railway stations, will be taken over by SNCB and the "Stations" Directorate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u111	Will the timing of construction sites (Namur, Mons) be affected by this integration? Can you remind us of the prospects for these two projects?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u112	Mr President, Minister, I also happen to have received the answer to my written questions on this draft this afternoon. The Société Régionale d'Investissement de Wallonia sold its shares of Eurogare to SNCB. Eurogare will thus be included in SNCB. Minister, what will happen to Eurogare's staff? What amounts were involved in the acquisition of the shares? What does Mr Bourlard's future look like? Is he staying on board? Under what statute? For what fee? Which job content or task package will he be assigned and until when? If he does not remain on board, how will the agreement with Mr Bourlard be put to an end? By what end date? What are the financial implications of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u113	Mr President, I would like to briefly outline the context of this dossier. In the early 1990s SNCB set up two subsidiaries, Eurostation and Eurogare, to carry out and follow the studies for the Brussels-South TGV stations and Liège-Guillemins. Over time, the scope of activity has been considerably extended and other station projects and buildings of SNCB have also been addressed. However, from 2014, the two subsidiaries were faced with a decrease in the number of projects analysed. Following this development, it was decided to integrate Eurostation and Eurogare into the SNCB. The integration of Eurostation was carried out in November 2018. At my express request, the Board of Directors of SNCB on 17 December also endorsed the integration of Eurogare into the structures of SNCB. This integration has been effective since 1 January this year. As you know, good governance is an essential thing for me and therefore also applies to this integration, to which I am very attentive. To answer your questions, following the merger, almost all of Eurogare's staff have been transferred to SNCB and integrated into the Gares direction. These are thirteen collaborators. With regard to Mr Bourlard's contract, SNCB informs me of the following. Mr Bourlard had a contract of employment with Eurogare and, like the other staff of Eurogare, was integrated into SNCB. This also means that the part-time working regime that Mr Bourlard had in Eurogare since October 2021 will continue to apply after the merger. The sole objective is to carry out the transfer of ongoing projects, both from an operational and contractual point of view, in a short period of six months. As has already been said, Mr Bourlard's employment contract does not provide for a specific departure allowance. Mr Parent, in doing so, I made sure that the integration of Eurogare will not have an impact on the planning of the Mons and Namur construction sites. For more details on the work schedule for the Mons station, I think I was quite precise a few minutes ago with Mr Thiébaut. As far as Namur station is concerned, SNCB informs me that the aim is to finalize the project of a bus station on the roof of Namur station by mid-2022. This remains relevant. I am indeed pleased with this news which will improve mobility in the country. Finally, in reply to Mr Roggeman's question, the price for the purchase of the shares was determined in accordance with the formula laid down in the shareholders' agreement between SNCB and the Société Régionale d'Investissement de Wallonie. This relates to the book value of the shares on the basis of the last annual accounts approved by the general meeting of Eurogare, but this price may not be less than 85 % and more than 115 % of the price for which the SRIW itself acquired the shares.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u114	Mr Minister, thank you for your clarification of the work site in Namur and Mr Bourlard's situation. I think that the dilution of Eurogare is rather good news, in the sense that we are aiming at an approach centred on the needs of commuters and on the overall strengthening of the mobility project throughout the territory. We come out of a sequence that lasted a few years with projects that perhaps did not correspond, given their size, to the needs of the network. Integration therefore seems to me to be good news, particularly as regards Parliament's follow-up of these construction projects. With regard to the resumption of staff, I would like to share two thoughts. On the one hand, there is a need for field staff at the level of SNCB and Infrabel. I therefore welcome the fact that the agreement with the outgoing director of Eurogare is strictly limited in time because we already have a director "Gares" at SNCB. Any duplication is also a sign of bad governance. I am pleased that it is strictly within the framework of the recovery and that this activity is fixed in time, and not beyond six months.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u115	Thank you, Minister, for your answers, which were still rather vague. It is, of course, a good thing that we are finally getting rid of Eurogare, an institution that symbolises maladministration and spillover. I would also like to add incompetence, which is certainly a symbol of Mr Bourlard in my view. I therefore regret that this man is kept on board within SNCB. I did not receive an answer to my question until when. I understand his contract ran until sometime in 2023. I hope that we will then be rid of that man, who cashed almost EUR 240,000 in 2020, and that projects will then be dealt with in a more efficient and competent way within SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u116	Mr Minister, it is with great disappointment that we have learned of the closure of the 287 Ath-Ghislenghien line by Infrabel, apparently because of the budgetary costs in relation to freight traffic. It is, of course, a narrowly economic vision that runs counter to your statement that "there will be no closure of lines under this legislature". This decision is also in contradiction with the government's goal of doubling rail freight by 2030. However, the closure of line 287 I have just mentioned is in addition to the closure of lines 132 Charleroi-Mariembourg and 134 Mariembourg-Couvin. For the city of Ath – and you will understand that I have been questioned by its representatives, including its mayor – this is obviously an ecological impact because the industrial line will be replaced by truck transport, but it is necessary to add to this the removal of the service of troubleshooting of type 55 diesel TGV, which engaged between six and eight people. In this context, it is easy to understand that the city of Ath is doubly affected by Infrabel's decisions, and that is why I would like to question you today. Minister, do you confirm the removal of line 287 Ath-Ghislenghien under this legislature? If so, do you not find this to be contrary to the objectives of the government agreement? How does Infrabel justify its choice(s)? Are the new aid recently decided for rail transport not sufficient in this context? Do you confirm the removal of the TGV troubleshooting service I just mentioned? Finally, is a solution envisaged for employees? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u117	Mr President, Mr Prévot, you have made me accustomed to seeing you better informed than today. There is no question of closing lines between Charleroi and Mariembourg, between Mariembourg and Couvin, or between Ath and Ghislenghien. As you point out, this would be contrary to the government's objectives with respect to rail and freight transportation. On the contrary, since the beginning of the legislature, I have been looking for ways to address the lack of investment in past years in maintaining the capacity of the railway network, its strengthening and its development, and I find it. It is indeed 615 million euros that will be invested in our railway infrastructure in the coming years and the work is already underway. With this government, we have launched a reinvestment dynamic in the rail sector, notably through our Boost and Transition Plans, in order to reduce this delay and to anticipate the means that will also enable it to avoid closures by 2024. The provision of funding will contribute to the success of our policy, but this is not the only necessary factor. We also need customers. As far as the 287 Ath-Ghislenghien line is concerned, my current concern is mainly the weakness or absence of freight traffic on this line. To have rail traffic, it takes both infrastructure in condition, which I make sure with Infrabel, and customers. In addition to the planned investments, it is important, especially with regard to line 287, to know how to relaunch and strengthen the activity on this line and, in general, to think with all the actors concerned about solutions so that a revival of activity is possible. We are working on this as part of the freight masterplan, which will help us double the volume of goods transported by rail by 2030. The future performance contract between the State and the infrastructure manager will necessarily have to address this type of situation and favour rail freight. With regard to your last question regarding the type 55 diesel TGV troubleshooting service, SNCB informs me of the following: "With internal movements between depots, the removal of this plant station by Infrabel does not cause an overstaffing at the Ath depot, nor does it cause personal problems among the agents concerned."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u118	Minister, you've used me to not closing the railway lines. That's why I called you. Indeed, these closures were mentioned in the local press and had visibly echoed enough for the mayor of the city of Ath to be arrested. I am obviously pleased to hear that there is no question of closing the above-mentioned line or lines 132 and 134. If that had been the case, it would have been, as you said, contrary to the government agreement and in contradiction to the means you are trying to find to maintain the lines. So I'm glad I heard you about these railway lines. With regard to the issue of personnel, I am obviously always happy to learn that a solution has been found in-house and that there will be no concern for the staff concerned with the abolition of this plant position.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u119	Mr President, Minister, I am pleased with my colleague that you have answered Mr Prévot's question, since my question is on the same subject. The development of freight transport is a major issue for the success of the modal shift. This is also a goal you are aiming for, among other things, an increase in rail freight traffic by 50% by 2030 and a doubling by 2050. You will correct me if these figures are incorrect. The difficulties encountered on the ground stem from the development of this rail traffic. I was questioned by a company in the province of Luxembourg about the lack of coordination between railway operators on both sides of the border, leading regularly to numerous obstacles for the transport of goods. It is not uncommon for them to miss deadlines as a result of poorly announced work. They were also unable to transport their goods as a result of simultaneous work by Infrabel, SNCF in France, and CFL in Luxembourg, blocking the borders around their depot. You will understand that the question of freight I am asking you relates to South Luxembourg. These constraints, coupled with freight costs, threaten to undermine the ambitious and necessary objective for freight, with companies risking once again turning to road traffic, if we are not sufficiently attentive to it. Mr. Minister, is your administration responsible for international coordination and national communication of operations by railway operators and their subcontractors? What solution do you propose, in consultation with your counterparts, for better cooperation for the transport of goods? What measures have you put in place to facilitate and enhance access to the freight network for businesses? In general, what actions are you taking to support the modal shift and the use of rail traffic?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u120	Mr President, Mr Vajda, as you know, my objective and that of the government is to double the volume of goods transported by rail by 2030. Given Belgium's strategic position, this objective can only be achieved by working with our neighbours. We are a small country from which we leave quickly. That is why last December I signed a declaration of intent with my French colleague Djebari in order to relaunch the rail freight line between Mons and Valenciennes. This ambition also requires close cooperation between the infrastructure managers of our different countries. Indeed, the international coordination of railway infrastructure works is a prerogative of infrastructure managers, Infrabel in this case with regard to Belgium. It is up to them to communicate to the railway undertakings the timetables during which the line is interrupted and to provide them with alternative routes as far as possible. It is also their responsibility to ensure consultation when setting the schedule of service. In this respect, the European legal framework is rather strict. There is always the difficulty of having to invest in, strengthen, modernize and maintain the network and, at the same time, the need to pass trains, which is not always possible and compatible. Infrabel wishes to place the customer at the heart of all its actions. I will ensure that this is always the case in the context of his future performance contract. This is obviously valid for freight transport in view of our ambitions in this area. For the transport of goods, this means, first of all, the provision of even more efficient and stable furrows. It is also a question of digitalization in network management, but not only. In order to facilitate and enhance access to the freight network for businesses, Infrabel has in particular set up accounting and relationship officers teams, which are responsible, inter alia, for organising a permanent dialogue with customers and stakeholders for the transport of goods in order to identify their needs. The identification of current and potential future flows should allow the most relevant choices to be made more quickly for companies and freight transport partners such as ports. Promoting rail transport as a quality alternative to road or water transport is only possible with a good understanding of the logistics chains of users. These inputs are then used to determine the evolution of infrastructure and investment choices. Moreover, on the basis of the roadmap - the memorandum drawn up last September by the freight sector - we are working together with my regional counterparts on a concrete action plan for freight which will be completed in the first half of 2022. It is in fact the regions which have control over aid to enterprises. For example, some regions already provide support for the connection of industrialists to the Infrabel network. Access to the Infrabel network is one of the elements of reflection that we are obviously integrating into this action plan. Finally, in order to double the volume of goods, as I said earlier, we have introduced, with the government and with the support of Parliament, a linear reduction of the freight charge from this year until 2025. It is a strong demand for the sector and it allows us to align with neighbouring countries, thus avoiding counter-productive competition. This mechanism was voted in this committee on 7 December and was adopted in the programme law of 27 December. We are currently preparing the notification to the European Commission. Its agreement is indeed a prerequisite for the implementation of this measure. I could indeed have told you about the investments of the Boost plan, the yard in Antwerp, the creation of 740-metre garage tracks for freight convoys, work in the various ports (wet ports and dry ports), especially the port of Athus that you know well, in your beautiful province. We are working hard to realize the government's ambitions for freight transportation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u121	Mr Minister, I welcome the ambitions shown and the forthcoming achievements that you are announcing with regard to railroad map in consultation with the Walloon Region, since you are announcing this for the first half of 2022. I'm so excited about digitalization. I was wary of that earlier about the digital divide. There is no mention of this in the head of professionals. Digitalization can be a very useful tool for achieving your ambitions. There is a question and attention that must be maintained: what about the monitoring by your ministry of the communication rules that are put in place? What is effective monitoring? For it is good to have good rules, but it is still necessary, since we observe that problems have arisen, that they be properly applied. I have no doubt of the spirit in which you will accomplish this work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u122	Mr Vajda, your point is very correct. One of the challenges of the performance contract being negotiated with Infrabel is to set customer relations objectives, including linking a bonus-malus to it that reflects how Infrabel can manage them. There is indeed a demand from companies for more fluidity in the reservation of furrows and in information on specific problems, such as work on a line. Being warned more upstream of these choices helps industrialists to adapt, especially when working with tight flows. It's obviously important and we're working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u123	Mr President, Mr Vandenbroucke, as you know, road safety is one of my top priorities, including the transport of goods on the railways and night trains. That is why, in November 2021, I drew up road safety plans together with my federal and regional colleagues. These plans contain dozens of concrete measures to increase safety on our roads. I have just received the final version of the VIAS study with external and internal reviews. The study should now be translated and published on the website of VIAS. My cabinet is currently analysing the conclusion of that study, but I can already tell you the following. VIAS has questioned 31 countries and based on the answers obtained it has analysed 6 countries in more detail: Finland, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, Norway, Portugal and Slovenia. I can already inform you of certain findings of VIAS. The different systems vary widely from one country to another. Sometimes points are deducted, sometimes points or violations are added up, sometimes all traffic offences fall into the system and sometimes only a limited list of them, about 20. Even minor offences, such as minor speeding offences, alcohol levels just above the limit, or failure to wear the seat belt, can often be repeated in a short period of time and lead to an increased risk of road accidents. A driving licence with points would have a deterrent effect, especially when the driver is about to lose his or her driving licence in the event of the next offence. Alternative training has a significant impact for some target groups, with up to 40% less recurrent. VIAS recommends a mixed system that aims to combine the benefits of automated management of backgrounds, transparency and effectiveness with the personalisation that is possible through recourse to the courts. In any case, the conclusions of the VIAS study leave the door open for different solutions. Their operational feasibility and application to the Belgian context will be further examined together with the partners. Together with my fellow ministers of the Interior and the Justice Department, we are increasing the chance of recidivism through our first federal road safety plan All For Zero. We have also had initial discussions on the driving licence with points. We will continue our discussions in the first half of this year. Then we'll submit our proposals to the federal government. Finally, and depending on the federal government's position on the driving licence with points, the federal government will include this issue with the states, because as you know road safety is a shared competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u124	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. With the completion of that final study an important cape has been completed. I am very much looking forward to that study and also to its discussion in our committee. I am also counting on us to draw conclusions from this in good time, so that we can put into practice what we agreed in the government agreement, namely that we will introduce the driving licence with points, or some form thereof, in our country too, in order to improve road safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u125	I tabled this question because my written question on the same subject remained unanswered. This morning I received the answer, but that does not solve the problem immediately. The station of Lier dates back to 1861 and is still owned by Mr Payen, one of the great designers of a whole series of stations. It is one of three stations that have retained their original function. Your predecessor planned the renovation and restoration in the period 2022-2024, after which it remained silent. Those who are watching the station today only see decay, neglect and, above all, a government that does not fulfil its obligations. The rules on heritage include the obligation to do conservation work in good time. Today we see a building where gutters and occupation fall down, where the paint leaves and where cracks are in the walls and the joinery is already partly rotten. The inside is, if possible, in even worse condition. On the floor is a partially dismantled floor and you can see through the holes in the ceilings the underside of the roof. This is unworthy of a government. You replied to me this morning that you will not do anything about it until 2025. That building won't last that long. In what way do you want to deal with heritage? What are your short-term plans with Lier's station? When do you plan the restoration and renovation works? Will this really be for your successor and will you do nothing about it? What emergency measures will you take? You cannot, of course, leave the situation as it is. In the meantime, the latest paintings date back to a number of ministers. If the situation of the station deteriorates even further, a number of things will of course be lost. Has an approach been agreed with the Flemish agency Onroerend Erfgoed to meet conservation obligations as soon as possible? Of course, it remains a protected monument and you have the necessary obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u126	Mr Wollants, I have listened to you very carefully and I share your concern about the preservation of this monument. I will discuss this further with SNCB, but I will now give you the official answer of SNCB. In order for the entire building to be fully realised, SNCB is examining the possibilities for valorisation of the classified station building, where SNCB will be responsible for the restoration of the facades, roofs and exteriors. SNCB is currently planning this work at the earliest from 2025. The full accessibility of the stations is one of my policy priorities and so is SNCB. This means the construction of a new underpass, equipped with lifts, increasing the platforms and renewing the entire platform equipment. This work is a joint responsibility of Infrabel and SNCB. The project is included in the proposal of the multi-annual investment plan for the implementation period 2027-2030. That was the official answer, but this needs to be studied further.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u127	Minister, it is a good thing that you look at this very carefully, because it is literally the answer I received in my mailbox this morning. Some things are problematic after all. I will have no choice but to contact the Real Estate Agency, because there is negligent maintenance. That's gonna affect heritage value. By failing to carry out certain repairs, there will be little valorisation in 2025-2026. As far as accessibility is concerned, I can only insist that it should go in the right direction. This station environment was in the field of accessibility on the PBN '93 programme of former Minister Vervotte. So you can estimate about what decade that took place and when that was urgently needed. If you find the time to visit Lier, I will gladly tell you the pleasures of our station, or the lack thereof, and explain why it is necessary. I'll be happy to meet you at the station.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u128	Mr Arens, the SNCB informs me that the redevelopment of the Athus site is part of the ongoing multi-year investment plan, fiscal year 2022-2032. During the period 2022 to 2024, SNCB planned the maintenance and development of the 250-seat parking lot and the installation of an access control. For the coming year, Infrabel has planned the creation of the lane corridor and access ramps for people with reduced mobility. Work to upgrade the wharfs and approaches is expected to begin mainly in 2023. As for the question of the availability of means – for which I have been fighting daily for a year, in this and in other cases – you can count on my determination. Of the 250 million that were decided on investment in the last budget conclave, a large part was allocated to accessibility works, which therefore concern the Athus station and are scheduled for this year and next year. This is good news for readers of L'Avenir-Luxembourg!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u129	Good news to finish, Mr. Arens!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic659x.u130	Minister, thank you for your answer and I really count on you for the speedy completion of this work.
