ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u1	Madam President, Madam Minister, in recent years, many international reports such as those of the International Energy Agency (IEA) and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) point to the lack of common objectives, coherence and governance of Belgian climate policy. Last November, at COP26, Belgium was unable to present an internal agreement on the allocation of effort in the face of climate challenges. Six months now separate us from the next COP and no short- or medium-term agreement has come to us. Minister, the government agreement states that "coordination between the federal state and federated entities must be improved, with the aim of strengthening policy at different levels". Can we be informed of the initiatives undertaken and envisaged in this context? In 2018, a synthesis report on climate governance was published, which contains a series of proposals for improvement, including the possibility of setting common objectives for federal and federated entities. Since then, the targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions to 55% by 2030 and climate neutrality by 2050 have been set in European legislation. Would this, in your opinion, encourage the establishment of an intra-Belgian framework with similar objectives? More generally, are you considering making your own proposals for improvement that I have just mentioned? Today, many countries have an independent climate committee or council. The Brussels-Capital Region has set up its own committee of experts. Can we hope that such a body can be created to facilitate intra-Belgian coordination? On 23 March, you recalled your "will to revise the PNEC and burden sharing to strengthen our ambitions, collaboration and coherence of climate policy". Can you provide us with more information about your ambitions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u2	Madam President, Mrs Hanus, indeed, the lack of coherence and effectiveness of the governance of Belgian climate policy have been repeatedly pointed out by international and European bodies but also by various Belgian consultative bodies. You are aware that I broadly agree with these observations. I am convinced that not only better coordination between the federal and federated entities, but also a cross-cutting approach within our own government will make the fight against climate change more effective, effective and readable for the citizen as well. Mrs Hanus, to integrate our climate policies, we must be four entities that want to do so. Belgium is to submit the draft update of its National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan (PNEC 2021-2030) by 30 June 2023. I have proposed several ways to the National Climate Commission (NCC) to respond to the recommendations of the European Commission and the opinions of the advisory bodies on the last NCP, but they have so far not been validated by the Commission. The first proposal I made was to have a third-party body carry out a study which will formulate proposals to bring the information and data contained in the PNEC 2021-2030 into line with European requirements and describe concrete ways of improving the methodological approach followed by Belgium in preparing its PNEC and its successive updates. This study would have addressed the gaps in the integration of the various components of the plan, the analysis of the links between the different planned policies, and the links between these policies and the quantified scenarios for the evolution of Belgian greenhouse gas emissions. Also in the context of the revision of the PNEC 2021-2030, I also proposed the organization of national climate round tables. This would have been an opportunity to have an exchange with the stakeholders and experts in order to adjust the measures of the different entities and ensure better complementarity between them. Unfortunately, this has not been desired by all entities. We therefore organise federal round tables where we will invite the Regions with the organisation of a specific round table on inter-federal measures, but which is still under discussion within the CNC and the PNEC working group. Since the creation of the Brussels-Capital Region Committee of Experts, each Region has now benefited from its committee. The logical follow-up would be the establishment of a national committee to advise the country's climate policy. However, before we can agree within the CNC on this progress – which I hope you can be sure of – it is important for all partners to be convinced of the value of developing a national integrated plan, rather than satisfied with the sum of four plans. Although I regret that my proposals for stronger integration and coherence of the climate policies of the different entities have not been approved, I am counting on the organization of this inter-federal round table in our federal exercise of climate round tables to try to make some progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answer. For your part, you are also aware that climate governance remains a priority of the Inter-Parliamentary Dialogue on Climate, which could serve as a sounding board for the previous COP. This governance must be seen as a solution, not as an obstacle for Belgium in the perspective of the next COP. The way forward for this is well known. It would now be time to move from speech to action. Of course, I hear the difficulties you are facing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u4	I will send the message to the entity concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u5	In my view, the credit that our fellow citizens give to their government, as well as to our foreign partners, is at stake.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u6	Madam President, Minister, released on Tuesday, April 26, 2022 by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), the Sand and Sustainability: 10 strategic recommendations to avert a crisis report points out that over the past 20 years, the consumption of sand, an almost non-renewable resource from quarries, rivers or seas, has tripled to about 45 billion tonnes per year.The report also points out that this increase has a significant impact on the environment, human livelihoods and respect for human rights: the disruption and destruction of ecosystems, the depletion of resources or the exploitation of communities by organized criminal groups. Minister, have you read this report? If so, can we get your feedback on this and, in particular, on the recommendations made? Can you provide us with your position on recommendations 4 and 7 concerning the establishment of legal bases and international frameworks? At the national level, annual consumption is estimated at 30 million tonnes of sand, mainly for the construction sector, according to Jeroen Vrijders of the Scientific and Technical Centre for Construction. What prospects can our country pursue for a more sustainable use of this resource? If this seems to be primarily a matter of regional competence, can circular economy initiatives be considered at the federal level? In addition, can you provide us with information on possible European frameworks on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u7	Madam President, Mrs Hanus, once again, thank you for drawing my attention to a report. This is a subject that I and my administration, the Federal Institute for Sustainable Development, have been focusing on for some time now. Indeed, a report was issued in the fall of 2018 on an analysis of the impact of the growing shortage of important raw materials on the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. In particular, you can read: "The general description of this megatrend reveals that the global situation is serious for each of the groups of raw materials (metals, fossil fuels including oil, minerals including sand, water, land use, etc.) If the status quo is maintained, raw material consumption is expected to double by 2050. Rich countries would consume ten times more raw materials than poor countries. The limits of the planet would be further pushed. It is therefore necessary to establish a systematic and coherent monitoring of the effects of these phenomena on our society." However, the authors of the study described uncertainty in the supply of sand in Belgium as unlikely or very unlikely. Notwithstanding this, other problems are likely to occur at home. I am thinking, for example, of the warning issued by scientists to extract more sand off our coast, in the North Sea, weakens the protection of our coast in stormy weather. This has the effect of reducing the force of the waves with all the consequences that follow for man and for nature in us. This is an aspect for which I refer you to my colleague Vincent Van Quickenborne. We are witnessing throughout the world, it is true, a sand war in several places. For example, sand stocks play an increasing role in geopolitical and military interests in the South China Sea. However, growing global demand is likely to have an impact on us. It is enough to see what happens with the demand for wood on the Belgian market for China and the effect it has on the price of wood. The publication of this report and UNEP is therefore a good thing to draw attention to this issue as well as to the formulation of the recommendation. I proposed that the government establish a Knowledge Centre at the Federal Institute for Sustainable Development to monitor critical raw materials and the social, ecological and economic consequences of their use. The Knowledge Centre could then make recommendations. At the negotiating level, this proposal is still under discussion and there is still no agreement. With regard to your first question, with regard to the recommendations contained in the UNEP report, in particular recommendations Nos. 4 and 7, which relate respectively to a strategy for an integrated policy and legal framework and to the determination of best practices and national standards and an international framework, although we obviously had to strictly respect the division of competences in this area, since an important role is assigned to the Regions and to the Ministers responsible for the North Sea and the Economy in this regard, I share the conviction, as for climate, that cross-cutting and integrated approaches are essential. Nevertheless, a role could already be given to the intra-Belgian platform of the circular economy, which I am in the process of reviving with my colleague Pierre-Yves Dermagne. This request was made explicitly by the European Commission in the context of the implementation of the Recovery Plan. I will therefore ask my administration to give an opinion on this report published by UNEP and in particular on the role that the federal government and Europe could play.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u8	Minister, thank you for all these answers. If they seem to give a positive echo to the urgency highlighted in this report, it is true that respect for and preservation of our natural resources must be our priority. The destruction of ecosystems around the world must also be the concern of the Belgian authorities. Sand, as I said in my question, remains a virtually non-renewable resource. Not to preserve her would be a mistake. The Resource Knowledge Centre is a new piece of information for me, which seems to be moving in the right direction. I wish you every success in the development of this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u9	Madam Minister, a while ago you replied quite clearly to our proposal to use rights from the market stability reserve to reduce the impact on energy costs. In the press, you said that there was no economic logic behind the proposal and that there was a negative environmental impact. However, the REPowerEU proposal now stipulates that some of the rights from the market stability reserve will be placed on the market. When that proposal was sent out to the world, it resulted in the price of allowances falling by about 10%, even without any additional allowances being auctioned. That leads to a number of questions. Can you explain more about the proposal as it has now been formulated, which consists of releasing rights from the market stability reserve, as the EU so wishes? How do you evaluate that proposal? How will the federal government behave in this respect? Can you estimate how much the EU ETS price might fall as a result?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u10	Mr Wollants, I fully support the objectives of the REPowerEU plan, namely to reduce dependence on Russian fossil fuels as quickly as possible by accelerating the energy transition. I therefore welcome a large part of the proposals. First of all, I welcome the emphasis placed on rational use of energy, in particular through energy saving communications. The Commission rightly points out that reducing energy consumption through price signals, energy efficiency measures and voluntary efforts is often the cheapest, safest and cleanest way to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels from Russia. In Belgium, under the leadership of my colleague Van der Straeten, the federal government launched a campaign from the beginning of April to mid-May to focus on increasing awareness of energy use. In addition, the Commission also provides for an increased need for investment, in particular in renewable energy, but also in fossil fuel infrastructure. It is clear that we must make full use of the energy system of the future, based on renewable energy, which provides the cheapest and safest energy. With regard to investments in fossil fuel infrastructure, for example in the field of LNG, I would like to ask for every project to be examined very thoroughly, only to make the absolutely necessary investments for which there are no alternatives to energy saving or renewable energy, so that we do not cling to the use of fossil fuels and waste scarce resources. We also need to study the objectives of biomethane in depth in order not to cause a negative impact on land use. With regard to the financing side of the REPowerEU Plan, the Commission indeed states that investment to become independent of Russian fossil fuels would amount to EUR 300 billion on top of Fit for 55 investments by the end of 2030, of which 210 billion by the end of 2037. These include investments in renewable energy sources, hydrogen infrastructure and the increase in methane production, energy efficiency and heat pumps, strengthening the electricity grid, but also adjustments in industry to use less fossil fuels, investments in LNG and gas pipelines and security of oil supply. Thus, although this is a major investment in the private sector, the Commission foresees that Member States will be able to use 225 billion in loans that have not yet been used under the Recovery and Resilience Facility. It is also foreseen that 26.9 and 7.5 billion can be transferred by Member States from the Cohesion Policy and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development respectively. From the Connecting Europe Facility 800 million would be deployed. Indeed, new revenues are provided by the Commission through additional auctions of allowances from the market stability reserve, amounting to EUR 20 billion, which has already been criticised, in particular by several Member States within the Council. Firstly, additional emissions budget is introduced into the system, which entails the risk that more will be emitted by this intervention. Indeed, it is highly uncertain that the additional duties introduced into the system will subsequently be compensated through inclusions in the market stability reserve. Moreover, the amount of EUR 20 billion is committed and not the number of rights. This means that if the ETS price were to fall due to other factors, further duties would have to be auctioned, which will have an impact on the price again. Secondly, intervention has an impact on Member States' revenues. Indeed, the price fell immediately after the announcement by about 7 euros on Wednesday 18 May 2022, from 85.11 euros to 78.11 euros. On the basis of this price, 256 million allowances from the MSR would be placed on the market, corresponding to around 17.5% of ETS emissions in 2021. A price decrease of 7 euros, maintained in the period 2021-2030, represents a loss of 1.5 billion euros in auction revenues for Belgium. However, the 20 billion in revenue would be distributed on the basis of the same distribution key as the recovery fund. As Mr Dermine has already pointed out, this would only bring Belgium 269 million. As the proposal undermines the integrity and credibility of the ETS and also has a negative impact on auction revenues, I do not support this proposal in its present form.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u11	Madam Minister, of course the whole answer was interesting, especially the question of where it is going. You are talking about the impact on Member States' revenues, but you have probably also seen how a number of measures have led to a huge increase in the ETS price. That price has quadrupled in the last two years. Of course, you do not include that in your answer. Of course, some regions in this country have already put this proposal on the table, because they see where that extra income comes from. They come from the resources of the citizens and businesses, which cough up this on top of the huge electricity and gas prices. I do not know whether it is such a sensible matter to oppose it, but of course you are doing what you usually want to do in this area. Whoever pays it in the end is already clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u12	Mrs Daems is sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u13	Madam Secretary, Leave no one behind: we leave no one behind. Under that heading, you organised a launch event for the national conference for a just transition. In the coming months and years, you want to work together with poverty groups, young people, trade unions, employers and governments. That is your objective and an expert panel was appointed for that purpose. Those experts will advise you and also prepare a publication by the spring of 2023. During the Belgian Presidency of the European Union, you want the dossier to be placed at the centre of the agenda. I have a few questions about that. What role do you see for the Länder in this process? Are they actively cooperating? If so, what role will they play in this? You would also use climate tables to come up with a new national climate plan. How will the conference relate to the initiatives of the climate tables?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u14	Minister, on May 24, the creation of a new High Committee for a Fair Transition was announced, which will be composed of 22 experts and will be responsible for working in particular on the socio-economic support of the sustainable transition. Among the tasks of this committee are the consideration of the basic needs of the Belgian population, the strengthening of citizen participation and the defence of social justice. The work of this body should contribute to the establishment of a societal dialogue – involving academia, civil society, public authorities and relevant stakeholders – to determine the federal contribution to the National Conference for a Fair Transition. Note that the committee will prepare a report by spring 2023 on how the fair transition can be organised and instituted in Belgium. Has a timetable been established for the establishment of the High Committee? The transition must not leave anyone on the side. This principle is essential for our group. Can you provide us with more information on how the High Committee will promote the social aspects of the transition? Can we consider providing analysis and recommendations on federal policies that are, or can be, initiated? Will its tasks be solely related to federal jurisdiction, or will they also relate to those of other levels of authority? In addition, could it contribute to political work, such as the revision of the National Energy-Integrated Climate Plan (NECP), or even to the establishment of our country's international commitments? Can you inform us of the High Council's expertise in reducing CO2 emissions? In recent years, many countries have established an independent expert committee to advise governments on climate policy. Let us mention here the High Council for the French Climate, or the British Climate Change Committee. Can we know to what extent the function of the High Committee for a Fair Transition is approaching that of these bodies? Is cooperation with existing regional committees, such as the Brussels Environment Council, envisaged? The establishment of this High Council is motivated by the organization of the National Conference. However, you have indicated that the work of this body should be on a long-term basis. Can we get information about his work once this conference has been organised?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u15	Mrs Buyst, Mr Senesael, I would like to remind you that the Council of Ministers has approved an effective federal governance framework for monitoring the implementation of federal policies and measures. A reinforced coordination and follow-up mechanism was established for the six-monthly monitoring and annual evaluation of the federal PAMs as a contribution to the integrated national energy and climate plan. In addition to the annual monitoring of the progress of the federal PAMs, the government intends, through this mechanism, to strengthen the policy on a regular basis and, where necessary, to develop additional policies. In this context, all competent departments shall also examine the indirect effects of their respective social, economic and environmental measures. This screening shall be done on the basis of a list of indicators based on the sustainability objectives of the STGs - including affordable energy, decent work and so on. The formulation of additional slopes for strengthening policies such as the climate bonus can also take into account how, for example, SMEs and vulnerable families could be compensated through a redistribution mechanism. Within climate policy, there are many interfaces, with attention to fair transition, which can certainly be strengthened. The Council of Ministers instructed me to direct the negotiations with the sub-entities, with a view to approving the conference for a fair transition to a subsequent Consultation Committee, so that it would become a national conference. If the organisation of a National Conference for a Righteous Transition cannot be approved by the Consultation Committee, the Conference will only be organised at federal level, with stakeholders wishing to participate if necessary. In this context, I look forward to the debate with stakeholders and experts at the climate table during the second half of this year, which the States-General can feed. We must not separate the different processes from each other. I officially set up this High Committee for a just transition at the event to launch the transition policy just on March 24th. A web site will soon be launched that will gather all the information about the challenge of the just transition in Belgium. I would point out that this high committee is part of a broader dynamic which consists of the general statements of the just transition in which the work of the High Committee is found, but also a forum and an agoria. The forum will be organised for dialogue between institutionalized actors (unions, associations...) and agoria aims to democratise the debate through round tables to which citizens will be invited. The High Committee is part of this dynamic. It is composed of 22 academic or independent experts and two observers, one for the Federal Institute for Sustainable Development and one for my firm. I wanted the High Committee to be composed in such a way as to promote the integration of the social aspects of the transition. That is the heart of the question, because the dimension of social justice is at the heart of the transition, just what you said before me. The transition will only happen if, indeed, it is fair. This is why most experts are sociologists, lawyers and social economists, while all members have shown their sensitivity to the social issue. I entrusted this committee with four tasks: to publish a social report which answers the question: "How can we organise and institute the just transition in Belgium?"; to advise the various stakeholders through recommendations; to disseminate their work by participating in the public debate; to allow me to put the subject on the agenda at international level within the framework of the Belgian Presidency of the European Union. The objective is therefore to make recommendations in the end, some of which apply to the federal government. Since the High Committee is independent, composed with respect for linguistic balance and universities, and its mandate relating to Belgium, nothing prevents it a priori from making recommendations and that they are implemented at each level of ad hoc authority. All the results of the work of the High Committee will be published and will be able to feed all stakeholders and policies. The mandate of the High Committee is, above all, focused on the social justice challenge of the transition. It is therefore not a question of climate or of monitoring the objectives. That's quite clear. In addition, we are following closely the institutionalization of scientific advice on ecological transition in other countries. The mandate of the High Committee is indefinite. It enjoys full autonomy, with a view to developing interactions with other bodies at the regional, community or federal level. The examples of the pandemic and the climate show that our current mode of governance is ineffective and incomplete. We need science-based policies that are driven by forward-looking work. That is the objective of the High Committee. The question of possible institutionalization, although it is of interest to me and one of the objectives, is premature. Indeed, the High Committee itself will look at this aspect. Therefore, I will not anticipate its conclusions. In any case, I confirm that this is one of my wishes. The establishment of this High Committee on the Right Transition does not reduce the need for an independent Climate Council, the two missions being carried out under separate orders – in response to Mr Senesael. On the other hand, regardless of the High Committee, I would point out that given the existence of the regional climate councils, I am busy assessing for the federal government the most effective and realistic structure in the review of federal climate policy. In reply to your question whether the Supreme Court for Righte Transition should take a permanent form, I am particularly concerned that the various bodies, whether permanent or not, should reinforce each other. For inspiration, I refer to the Climate Change Committee in the United Kingdom, which was already established in 2008 through a UK climate law and published an opinion in March 2022 with concrete and clear recommendations on fair transition and adaptation against climate change. A fair transition is an integral part of the debate on the climate and energy transition and vice versa. We need to get off the idea that we work in silos. I think that and scientific advisory bodies and a national conference could become permanent processes because the just transition will occupy us well beyond 2050. There's a lot to do. We're late and the emergency is maximum. At this stage, we do not preclude the possibility, where appropriate, of prolonging the work of the High Committee in the framework of the Presidency or in any other framework deemed appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u16	Madam Minister, Frans Timmermans said that the climate crisis, the biodiversity crisis, the health crisis and the threatening financial crisis are actually a perfect storm, but also an opportunity, or they could be an opportunity. This could be an opportunity to finally organise our society and our economy in a sustainable way. But, very importantly, if we want to organise this differently, we must indeed bring everyone with us. You said it too, the transition will be social or will not be. That's why we need to work together. I am then pleased with a federal minister who is trying to bring together different stakeholders, companies, citizens and experts to discuss this together. This is important at European level, but it is also important in our country. Have I understood you correctly, did you ask the regions at the national conference, which you are organising, to participate, but that if they are not participating, it will only happen at the federal level? I'd say that's a missed opportunity. I believe that if we want to achieve something that must be done together with all the regions. All the regions will then have to take a proactive role in the task we have to carry out this transition, which will either have to be social or not. The policy must be to make the most ecological choice the most logical choice for people. We can only do that if we work together. I call on all regions to shape this policy together with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u17	I would like to thank the Minister warmly for the quality of her response and, above all, for her work on this issue, which is of great interest to us. We are convinced that the website you have announced will be an important and founding element in the structuring that you have set out. The forum and the agoria are two key pieces for this social justice to be the culmination of the work that has been announced. Let me conclude by stressing once again that, for us, the sustainable transition is an ambitious, effective and accessible transition for all. We are confident, Madam Minister, that you will also go in that direction, and we thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u18	Madam President, Minister, it is quite unknown to the general public, but trafficking in wild animals is the third largest illegal trade in the world, after drugs and weapons. Some people are willing to pay the price to be owners of exotic insects. In the United States, where the importation of most insects and other arthropods is heavily regulated, the recent arrest of a dealer named Lapkiewicz illustrated to public opinion a facet of this trade since this man sold large quantities of insects (mile-pattes, spiders or other beetles) via the Facebook social network. If I question you today, it is because in May 2022, a study published by Nature Communications Biology alerted the authorities to the growing popularity of more than 1,200 species of arachnids, from 111 websites operating in 9 languages. The trade, of course via the internet and delivered via postal parcels, would experience a renewed interest with the periods of confinement. Unfortunately, there is no centralized database of seizures, which means that there is no way to assess the global scale of this illegal trade, which undermines the preservation of biodiversity. Minister, can you give us your opinion on this issue, as well as on the legal provisions currently in force? Can you inform us about the controls carried out in Belgium on the illegal importation of insects and more particularly arachnids? Is a list of the number of litigious cases observed available? Does this number indicate an increase? Finally, can we get your point of view on the creation of a centralized database of seizures perhaps at European or even international level?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u19	Mr Prévot, my administration is responsible for the application in Belgium of the CITES Convention which regulates international trade in endangered species. This Convention is implemented in the European Union through Council Regulation EC 338/97 and protects a number of species of arachnids and insects that are or may be threatened by international trade. We have prepared a detailed and comprehensive answer to your first question. I won't read it because it's too long given the time. I will hand it over to the secretariat of the committee. Dead and living specimens of these protected species (and their parts and products) are subject to CITES documentation requirements. They can only be imported into the European Union with CITES documents, both a CITES export permit from the exporting country and a CITES import permit from the importing Member State. CITES import permits are issued by the importing Member State only after it has ensured the sustainable exploitation of the species concerned in the countries of origin. For certain species/country combinations, negative notices valid for the whole of the European Union have been issued and no CITES import permits are then issued authorizing imports into the European Union. A CITES trade database lists the legal international CITES transactions of the States parties to this Convention. Exotic spiders are also the subject of numerous captive farms in the European Union, which reduces the pressure on wild populations in the countries of origin. If it is found that other species of arachnids or insects are threatened by international trade, they may be the subject of proposals for listing in the Annexes to the CITES Convention. Preparations for CITES COP19, which will take place in November, are in full swing. The European Union will also propose listing in Annex III of the CITES Convention of the Matoutou cliff – a mygalomorphic spider endemic to Martinique – in order to ensure better control of trade in this species. In order to be comprehensive, it should also be noted that an exotic insect species, the Asian frelon, is currently on the EU list of invasive species. Four species of fire ants will soon be added. The marketing of these species and their exchange between individuals are prohibited. As regards animal health legislation, any importation of insects must be controlled by the AFSCA, in accordance with European legislation. In addition, border controls on animals are carried out by customs. I therefore suggest that you ask my colleagues who are competent in these two areas for further clarification. For CITES-protected species, several cases of seizures in Belgium can be identified. You'll find the details in the answer I'll give you. Seizures of arachnids and insects protected by the CITES Convention are centralized in the EU-TWIX database, which lists CITES seizures of all EU Member States. This information is also included in the annual report on illegal trade that each CITES State Party has been required, since 2017, to send to the CITES Secretariat. These various annual reports contribute to the implementation of the United Nations General Assembly resolution on combating illegal trafficking in wildlife. My administration is in the process of finalizing a draft plan on trade in exotic animals, which will include an analysis to create a database of the volumes of exotic animal species that are imported and sold in our territory. This will include insects and will allow the development of an official information repository that will support the implementation of a sustainable health and environmental policy in this area. This database should logically be fed by seizure information.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u20	Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response. I hear you will also send me the rest of it in writing. Thank you for all this information about the CITES Convention. Therefore, these animals cannot be imported until a CITES import permit has been issued. As for my last question, concerning the creation of a database that could become a reference, I mean that you are working on a draft plan for that purpose. That seems to me to be going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u21	Madam Minister, a remarkable figure in a publication by the International Energy Agency: in 2019 Belgium was the largest producer of cobalt in the world. Our country would account for about 5% of total world production. That is good news in itself, because that figure seems to come mainly from the recycling activities that are taking place here, not so much from hidden cobalt mines out here somewhere. In addition, this production could reduce our dependence on cobalt from regions where environmental and social standards may not be as strict and, unfortunately, completely non-existent in many cases. To what extent are there sources of cobalt used for production other than pure recycling activities? There aren't any? Can this production make it more stringent at European level with regard to imports of cobalt from regions where questionable environmental and social standards apply? Is it intended that sustainability criteria should also be established at European level for these matters?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u22	Mr Wollants, cobalt is on the list of so-called critical raw materials, as established by the European Commission on 3 September 2020. Since about a month after the beginning of my term of office, the challenge of critical raw materials has been on my agenda. I immediately took note of a scientific report from the FIDO to my administration, which was already delivered in 2018. I referred to it in response to a previous question. Since then, concerns about critical raw materials have only increased. I share that concern. A few weeks ago I wrote an opinion paper on this subject at EURACTIV. Having said that, I have made concrete proposals to my colleagues in the government to monitor the flow of raw materials to and from our country with due vigilance. However, I do not know what general measures are in the pipeline which are specifically concerned with imports of cobalt. However, I can refer to the proposal for a regulation on batteries and waste batteries currently under negotiation at European Union level. This proposal, strongly supported by Belgium, contains a requirement that operators who place industrial batteries or batteries for electric vehicles on the European market impose a care policy, in particular for cobalt. This due diligence policy should take into account social and environmental risk categories. Another legislative proposal is indirectly related to your question, namely the proposal for a directive on sustainable corporate governance. This Commission proposal does not cover specific products, but focuses on regulating the integration of sustainability aspects into business policy and making this integration binding. The approach chosen is also based on the principle of care. It is foreseen that an environmental footprint indicator including greenhouse gas emissions will be included in the next revision of the REACH regulation on chemicals. So it is not yet a sustainability criterion in itself, but Europe is making progress in this respect. Belgium also supports the introduction of a sustainability criterion for batteries and their products. At present, the proposal covers only the minerals cobalt, natural graphite, lithium and nickel.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u23	Madam Secretary, we must indeed follow that up. After all, it remains a challenge not to shape the energy transition with input that we ourselves regret afterwards. In the past, we have been too frequent with other things. So I look forward to further steps in a European context.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u24	Minister, Belgium is a negative example in a study of the Member State producing fruit containing the most pesticide residues that are highly toxic to our health and environment. The study was conducted by the Pesticide Action Network (PAN) by compiling data from the 30 European agencies guaranteeing food safety in the Member States. The results of the analyses show a 53% increase in pesticide residues most at risk in our fruit between 2011 and 2019. For fruit and vegetables produced in Belgium, 34% of the samples were contaminated, which puts us first ahead of Ireland (26%) and France (22%). However, authorisations for these toxic pesticides containing active substances for substitution must be compared with substitutes by the Member States in order to minimise their use. Our European ambitions are clear and we must reduce our use of pesticides by half by 2030. Will we live up to our European ambitions? Minister, how do you get the conclusions of the Forbidden fruit study? We have already received a reaction from your colleague, the Minister of Agriculture, in plenary session. We will come back with him in committee in the next few days. What are your levers as Minister of the Environment to reduce the use of pesticides, especially those classified as candidates for substitution, which are dangerous to humans and the environment? Are NAPAN and NAPED plans adequate tools for moving forward in the coming months? If so, do you see any possible adjustments to these plans?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u25	Madam Minister, Mrs de Laveleye has already given the question an adequate answer. I'll go straight to my questions. Madam Secretary, how do you respond to PAN Europe's report? In particular, how does PAN Europe, together with Nature et Progrès and Velt, respond to the demand for an immediate ban on the 12 most toxic substances measured and the substitution of safer alternatives by 2030? I have also asked Minister Clarinval in plenary for investigations into the cocktail effect in Belgium. I also put that question to Minister Vandenbroucke with regard to health. The cocktail effect can also be very damaging to the environment and biodiversity. Can you say anything more about that? What investigations have happened? Mrs de Laveleye also referred to the NAPED. Two substances mentioned in the report have hormone-distorting effects. Scientists say that these substances should simply not occur, either in our diet or in the environment. How can we declare our agreement with an ambitious NAPED and at the same time tolerate the presence of these substances in our food and environment? What other actions are you planning to achieve the objectives of Farm-to-Fork and the European Biodiversity Strategy by 2030?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, the conclusions of the Pesticide Action Network study are extremely alarming and confirm the need to drastically reduce the amount of pesticides used and to minimise the risk that these pesticides, alone or in combination – I insist on the word "combined", an aspect that is too often hidden, perhaps opportunely – represent for human health and for the health of our ecosystems. As you know, I base my work, and I try to take the whole government with me, on science, integrating the precautionary principle. The government agreement provides for the drafting of an ambitious pesticide plan. In the discussions in the CEO, I will ensure that the government adopts an ambitious attitude, consistent with this majority agreement, to reduce chemicals. Since your questions also concern the protection of public health, the marketing authorisation of plant protection products and the safety of the food chain, I invite you to ask your questions to the Minister responsible for public health, Mr Vandenbroucke, and to the Minister responsible for Agriculture and Food Safety, Mr Clarinval. In order to make progress, the National Action Plan Pesticides and the National Action Plan Hormone Interrupters, respectively the NAPAN and the NAPED, should be used. The four competent ministers, in particular the Ministers for Health, Agriculture, Economics and Work and myself, are preparing in the federal government the preparation and implementation of the federal and national actions of the National Action Plan Pesticides. Together, we are developing additional measures to further reduce the potential risks to humans and the environment. The work on the NAPAN for the period 2023-2027 is already at an advanced stage; it is still important to increase the level of ambition in line with the established urgency. The actions of the new National Action Plan Hormone Interrupters will be definitively validated by the Joint Inter-Ministerial Conference on the Environment and Health by the end of June, extended to include, among others, the Federal Minister responsible for Agriculture. The concrete recommendations provided by the NAP study are very useful and will be taken into account in the follow-up of the relevant dossiers. In particular, my administration is closely following developments regarding the revision of the directive on the sustainable use of pesticides. I will ensure that the recommendations of the Forbidden fruit study are taken into account and that the approach is consistent with that adopted in the framework of the European Union's strategy for sustainability in the field of chemicals. The approval of active substances is carried out at European level. For cocktail effects, the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) is currently working on the development of methods to assess combined exposure to different active substances and, consequently, the risks to humans and the environment from exposure to cocktail chemicals through food. In addition, EU legislation provides that the professional use of plant protection products must be declared on-line. This will help to identify potential residues on food and certainly to refine the risk analysis. The aspects of cocktail and endocrine disrupting effects are taken into account in the legislation on plant protection products. The Federal Sustainable Development Plan also provides for the federal authority to draw up a plan for pollinators in line with the objectives of the national pollinator strategy. This exercise, which will soon begin, will be an opportunity to complement the measures already envisaged in NAPAN, in the spirit of "One World One Health". Finally, the assessment of the possibilities for action at our disposal to ban, at national level, the export of banned chemicals for health and/or environmental reasons remains one of my priorities. Work is under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u27	Minister, you begin your answer by saying that the results of this study are extremely alarming. This is a significantly different response than we have been able to have so far. I have to say that it's relatively reassuring, even if "warming" shouldn't be reassuring. At least the study is taken seriously. We are talking about products that are candidates for substitution. It is regrettable that few initiatives are being taken to find real alternatives. This is not only the federal responsibility, since the Regions are also responsible for all the derogations we give. These products have been known to be extremely toxic for years. But we do not replace them. I'm waiting for an awakening from Belgium. I do not know how many reports will be required for this. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development published a report a year ago, raising alarms about the state of our environment in Belgium due to pesticides. What more does it take for this to progress? The final version of NAPAN will only be ready in the fall. I'm counting on you to keep putting pressure, as you've been doing for several months, to move the lines. As long as we don't have the final version, I assume it's possible. The work of the European Food Safety Authority on the cocktail effect is obviously very interesting, and I do not understand why it was not done before, but we will have to be very careful as a Member State of the European Union if the results are to meet our expectations. That is indeed the problem, both for our environment and for our health. On the question we have to ask Mr Vandenbroucke, for the time being he refers it to other committees. I don't know what that means, but we will continue to file it until we get an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u28	Madam Minister, thank you for the reassuring response to an extremely alarming report. I am pleased that you recognise literally that the recommendations made by PAN Europe are very useful. That tone is quite different from what is noticeable in statements about the so-called scaremongering by the green lobby. I have three comments to make. Firstly, our big criticism of the NAPAN when it came before the public for consultation was that the level of ambition was not high enough. If the level of ambition can go up through the quoted study, we certainly applaud and support it. Secondly, even though I am very pleased that EFSA is working on studies on the cocktail effect, I remain concerned, because the Authority has recently drawn a different conclusion from the World Health Organisation. This is the case because EFSA does not always base itself on objective studies. If there is some kind of clarification as to which studies EFSA bases itself on, it will always be good for decision-making later. We're counting on you to keep knocking on that nail. Finally, you mention the Federal Plan for Sustainable Development and the Belgian national strategy on pollinators, which is yet to come. Mr de Laveleye and I continue to support you in your work to really implement the slogan One world, one health, which is often used too often for the sake of a progressive view of a dossier. If you really take the slogan One world, one health seriously, then you take the report in question, which is based on pure government data. There is no green lobby behind it and no intention other than a healthy environment. We therefore support your intention to intervene in the dossier and to stand up for our world and our health as best we can.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u29	Madam President, Minister, a recent study by Test Achats shows that many sun protections are harmful to the environment. In fact, Test Achats analysed various parameters responsible for the environmental impact of solar protections, including UV filters, their impact on fish and corals and their accumulation in the environment. As a result, 40 of the 51 sunscreens tested, due to their composition and the use of certain harmful chemical filters, are particularly harmful to the environment. The analysis conducted by Test Purchases also shows that only 7 of 51 sunscreens contain no microplastics. Thus, every year, about 25,000 tons of sunscreen end up in our oceans, of which no less than 5,000 tons affect fauna and flora and are absorbed by corals. In addition to the ingredients, the packaging of certain products is also questioned. Some have unnecessary additional packaging, such as a carton surrounding the tube, and only 7 of the 51 products have packaging made from plastic or recyclable cardboard. Finally, several of the substances analysed show allergenic and disruptive properties of the endocrine system. Minister, what are the current regulations regarding the environmental and health impact of solar and cosmetic products in general? Can we know whether the substances mentioned are affected by the REACH restrictions, currently in force or under discussion, if not, could initiatives be envisaged, both at European and national level? A cream in this comparison has been awarded the Eco & Efficiency label of Test Purchases, which shows that it is possible to produce more environmentally friendly solar products. What steps could be taken to encourage other brands to follow this example?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u30	Madam Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u31	Dear colleagues, at present, the ingredients of solar products, and cosmetic products in general, are regulated by the European REACH Regulation on environmental aspects and by the European Cosmetic Regulation No 1223/2009 on health aspects. The solar filters authorised in the European Union are included in a positive list annexed to the European Cosmetic Regulation. A revision of this Regulation is under way and consideration is being given to environmental criteria in addition to health criteria. In addition, certain solar filters have been identified as potentially hazardous substances (SVHC) under REACH or are subject to a harmonised classification (HLC). The four solar filters pointed to by Test-Achats (i.e., octocrylene, butyl methoxybenzoyl methane, homosolate and titanium dioxide) are being evaluated under REACH and new data have been requested to finalize these assessments. In addition, the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) has identified the need to take risk management measures in the form of restrictions for the group of salicylate esters, of which L'homosalate is a member, but this has not yet been implemented. As far as NAPED is concerned, Belgium is expected to adopt an ambitious position at European level so that endocrine disruptors which may have an adverse effect on human health and/or the environment are gradually eliminated from consumer products, including cosmetics. Belgium has already positioned itself in favour of the creation of new harmonised hazard classes for endocrine disruptors during the negotiations for the revision of the Regulation on the Classification, Labelling and Packaging of Chemicals (CLP). A link can thus be established between the classification of endocrine disruptors in the CLP Regulation and the introduction of restrictions in cosmetic products as part of the revision of the European Cosmetic Regulation. Belgium will play a major role in these negotiations in order to make CLP, REACH and cosmetics legislation more stringent on endocrine disruptors. The problem of intentionally added microplastics in products is also being discussed at European level under REACH. The Commission should submit a proposal for a restriction after the summer. The exact scope of the proposal is not yet known; therefore, there are still uncertainties as to which restrictions could be proposed for sunscreens. I will ensure that the Belgian position on this issue is ambitious and supports the effective inclusion of solar products in the future restriction. It was also suggested that solar protection products should be included in the sectoral agreement of 9 January 2018 for the substitution of microplastics in cosmetic products to be rinsed, concluded with the Belgian-Luxembourg Association of Cosmetic Producers and Distributors DETIC. However, given the time frame for negotiating and amending this voluntary agreement and its limited scope for the national market, this introduction does not seem appropriate at present in the light of the ongoing European discussions under the proposed restriction of intentionally added microplastics. My administration will reassess this measure in the light of European progress. In addition to regulatory measures, the promotion of European ecolabel to cosmetic manufacturers and consumers contributes to the placing on the market of more environmentally friendly products. Sun protection products can obtain ecolabel on the basis of criteria specific to cosmetic products that ensure low toxicity to aquatic organisms, biodegradable ingredients, limited use of hazardous substances, reduced packaging and easy to recycle while maintaining a good performance essential for this type of product. These criteria were published in October 2021 and an information session has already been organised for producers in collaboration with DETIC. A video campaign targeting businesses is also planned at the end of 2022, early 2023. A broader campaign will be organised in 2023 if budgets permit. On the other hand, one of the objectives of NAPED is to plebiscite a healthy substitution of the chemicals identified as endocrine disruptors. For example, awareness-raising campaigns will be conducted with industrialists, both producers and distributors. In addition, economic regulatory tools will be identified in collaboration with the Economy FPS to promote substitution of potentially hazardous chemicals.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u32	I thank the Minister for her detailed response and we can only be pleased to see that a review of European regulations is under way. It is known that it is extremely difficult to produce or manufacture sunscreens with non-chemical filters. In this respect, it is difficult to produce. From our point of view, citizens should not have to choose between preserving their skin and hence their health and the environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u33	Minister, it is very difficult to realize that we are faced with choices that we believe to be virtuous and that those that we make are both bad for our health and totally toxic to the environment. I hope that we will have results quickly. As Mrs Zanchetta says very well, this is moving forward at European level. I appreciate, however, that you say that European progress is too slow, which is the big problem with Europe: when there is progress, it is significant and useful, but sometimes it takes a long time and it is not always as ambitious as we would like. If so, you leave a door open to see what you can still do with the area not to waste too much time. Let us hope that we do not need it and that all of REACH's work will be completed in the coming months. I hope that NAPED will be a tool that can be mobilised for regulatory aspects and not just for raising awareness among consumers and producers. We know that this is not enough to protect our collective health and our environment. Let us hope that by next summer, the market will show us great progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u34	Madam Minister, when the European Parliament voted, there was no majority in favour of the first proposal on tightening up the Emissions Trading System. Several other proposals in the same package were therefore no longer put to the vote. The texts seem to have gone too far for some groups and not far enough for other groups. How's the government looking at that package? What should happen now, given the recent vote? What effects do you expect from the further journey? What does the government want to underline in this debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u35	Madam Minister, last Wednesday the European Parliament failed to win a majority vote in favour of a text revising the European greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme, the ETS (Emission trading system). However, this is one of the central aspects of the Fit for 55. It is very alarming that Parliament is unable to achieve an ambitious result on this element. A basic text of the Committee on the Environment included a release of free quotas in 2030, which was a relatively interesting position for environmentalists. The EPP has submitted an amendment to postpone the deadline to 2034, four years later, which is significant at the climate level. The amendment passed, but in the final vote the text was not adopted, despite the support of the Conservatives and the Liberals, and was referred back to committee. This seems to me to be good news, because we may have the opportunity to bring the deadline closer to 2030. This also suspends, in particular, the text on taxation at frontiers, as well as the text on the social fund, two very important texts of the Fit for 55 package. At this stage, the federal government is not directly concerned. These are issues under discussion at European level. I still have questions. What impact does this have on the Council's discussions? What about the federal outlook?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u36	Thank you for your questions. I'll take the opportunity to deepen the ETS aspect. Mr Senesael has introduced a question which has not been joined, to which I am replying more generally on what has happened in Parliament. Madam President, I think it is a sign of democratic vitality that Parliament can make other choices and that the text is referred back. I give you a personal comment: it would probably have been alarming if the amendment had passed. Please be aware that the federal government does not carry out an analysis of the votes taking place in the European Parliament. On the other hand, the analyses emanating from the diplomatic circles serve as input to political discussions and are one of several elements that contribute to the determination of the Belgian position and strategy on this important dossier of the ETS. Various DGE meetings are taking place this month, often in camera, to continue to refine the Belgian position in view of the negotiations in the Environment Council. In these negotiations with the Regions, it is the Climate Cell of my cabinet that speaks – after intra-governmental consultation – on behalf of the federal government. In the European Parliament, the ETS compromise was rejected in the Committee on the Environment, because political groups that often hold opposite views voted against together. A number of groups rejected the proposal because they see an argument in high energy prices to reject the carbon pricing proposed by the Commission. There were also groups that voted the text out, because due to unusual majorities there was too much dilution of the initial design and of the initial ambition. One couldn't agree with it anymore. Many of the discussions in the European Parliament focus on emissions levels for the ETS, free allowances for industry and the new ETS for buildings and transport. For example, the difficult compromise in the European Parliament's Environment Committee on the ETS-BRT, which phase-in the system for commercial buildings and transport and later for households, has not yet been adopted. You called her back, Madam President. At the federal level, we have had a position on the ETS and the CBAM since October. I remind you of the main elements. We have adopted in broad terms the proposal of the European Commission. For example, we support the minimum reduction target of -55% by 2030 and cost-effectiveness across sectors. This leads to a target of -61 % for the ETS. We support an extension to maritime navigation and a gradual exit of free quotas for European navigation. We are also in favour of phasing out the free quotas for the six sectors of the CBAM as they will be protected by an import tax outside the European Union. Any release of free allowances has the effect that companies have to pay for their CO2 emissions. This revenue then accrues to the Member States and therefore also to Belgium. They enable all governments to finance the investments needed to reduce our use of fossil fuels and to support households and businesses. Belgium has pointed out, however, that if we phase out all free rights for the CBAM sectors, these sectors will be competitively disadvantaged in markets outside Europe. Installations here bear a CO2 price and elsewhere often less or not. For this particular problem, together with like-minded Member States such as Germany or Spain, we are still trying to find a solution that is in line with WTO rules and respects environmental objectives. Finally, from Belgium we have no position for or against the new ETS BRT. The federal government has tried to ensure at least that such a system, if it finds a majority at EU level, is implemented in a socially just way. We decided on a climate bonus, linking the introduction of the ETS BRT to that of the Social Fund, and investigated a price corridor or even excluding housing. I wanted to be prepared for every scenario, but from the regions there was no support for negotiating modalities at EU level, which puts Belgium on the sidelines in the discussion on the ETS for buildings and transport. We will see how the dossier evolves at EU level in the coming weeks, but I will continue to work to ensure that the families with the lowest incomes improve when such a system is introduced. As far as the European Parliament is concerned, it is expected that it will have a new vote in plenary in June. In the meantime, intense work will be done, I hope, to find a compromise that balances concerns about competitiveness, ambition and just transition, and that can win the favour of a parliamentary majority. As far as the Member States are concerned, I hope that the Environment Council of 28 June will be a decisive step forward for strong ambitious agreements on the different climate components Fit for 55. We could then quickly start the trialogue negotiations after the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u37	Mr Senesael, do you feel that you have received an answer to your question? If not, it will still require a supplement afterwards. No problem. She wasn't attached, but there was a little confusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u38	I almost have a longer answer for Mr. Senesael.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u39	Madam Secretary, thank you very much. That gives a better view of exactly what's going on. We must, of course, look very carefully at the effects of this. In the past, we have already debated the extension of the ETS to buildings, which you mentioned briefly. Especially in the present time, we must be careful where the benefits are and where they are not. If there is a risk that a measure will significantly increase prices, then we must be very careful about that. I am glad that that logic can also be used. The debate over the next few weeks and months will have to determine what comes of it, because policy choices must remain affordable at all times for those who are subject to it. I am afraid of that, which is why we have reservations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u40	Madam Minister, we are not doing the European debate again here, but it is really interesting to see how this affects Belgian strategies and how you organise the consultation on the positions that will then take place at Council level. We have had an extremely difficult time, when the question of the tension between the urgency of the transition and the impact, especially on prices, is extremely complicated. I see this as a signal. This debate is very heated at European level. We're the hands in the camboo. We have to make tough decisions. I hope that it is the right transition that will prevail in the coming weeks and that Belgium will be a useful player in the accompaniment at Council level, but also later in national policies. Thank you for the clarifications.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u41	Minister, I have already had a part of my answer, but there are other elements in my question. Eight proposals from the European Commission's Fit for 55 package were discussed in Parliament's plenary session. Several major events should be highlighted. First, the proposal to ban the sale of new thermally powered vehicles in 2035, as well as those relating to the international air emissions compensation system, effort allocation (ESR) and land use (LULUCF). On these texts, negotiations will be conducted in trialogue between the representatives of Parliament, the Commission and the Council. In this regard, Member States will have to establish their positions during this month. Secondly, the reform of the emissions trading system (ETS), the establishment of the social climate fund and the carbon adjustment at borders (CBAM) were referred to the Committee on the Environment. The return of these texts to the plenary session is not expected until July. Madam Minister, can we get your feedback on the decisions taken by the European Parliament last Wednesday, in particular on the difficulties encountered in the discussions on the texts referred to the committee – including the question of ending the free allocations of the ETS? This month, Member States must determine their positions on the Fit for 55 proposals that have been adopted. Have these issues been discussed in the Directorate-General for Coordination and European Affairs? Has our country's position been set? We know that the proposal on the ESR, which attaches to our country the goal of reducing its greenhouse gas emissions to -47% by 2030, has been opposed. Has a compromise been reached? If so, can you inform us? Can we have your opinion on the revision of emission standards for cars and vans? To what extent could our country face the ban on the sale of new gasoline and diesel vehicles in 2035? What measures could be envisaged to make electric cars and hydrogen affordable, and to comply with the charging station provisions? Finally, has our country defined clear and ambitious requirements for the revision of the ETS, the CBAM and the Social Climate Fund? Is the strengthening of the Fund proposed by the Commission part of your commitments? I suspect there are a lot of questions for the short time you have.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u42	Minister, may I ask you to respect as much as possible the response time allocated to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u43	Madam President, I will try, but do not hesitate to interrupt. Mr Senesael, I will send you the full answer if necessary. As you mentioned, on 8 June Parliament adopted its position on the Effort Sharing Regulation, Land Use Change, and Forestry (LULUCF), CO2 standards for cars and vans, and the aviation emissions trading system. Unfortunately, he did not agree on the ETS file, which means that the adoption of a position on the Social Fund for Climate and the CBAM has been postponed. The ETS file is therefore referred to the Environment Committee. We are talking about the adoption of the final position of the European Parliament in the June plenary. For my part, I will endeavour to ensure that we find ambitious and solid agreements on the various climate issues of Fit for 55 at the European Council on 28 June. I therefore hope that Parliament will quickly adopt its position on the remaining issues so that after the summer we can start negotiations between the Council and the European Parliament to finalize the dossier and implement the Green Deal. It is important to quickly provide clarity to citizens and businesses on the directions we confirm. With the help of my staff and my administration, we are analysing Parliament's results and discussions. With regard to the emissions trading scheme for aviation, I am already pleased that Parliament, like Belgium, is calling for the accelerated abolition of free allowances. With regard to the "Effort Sharing" dossier, Parliament's agreement also contains good elements, such as the strengthening of the limit on the transfer of surplus emission units, for which Belgium also strongly advocates within the Council. In the LULUCF dossier, I note that Parliament also rejects the proposal for a climate neutral Agriculture, Forestry and Other Land Use (AFOLU) pillar after 2030, which would bring together non-CO2 emissions from the agricultural sector and LULUCF emissions or removals. At present, the added value of this approach is not demonstrated, as the substantial risks of reducing incentives for reducing emissions in agriculture have not been ruled out. This element of the Commission's proposal has already been removed during Council discussions. In order to help Member States meet their national objectives, the Council has amended some of the flexibility mechanisms to make them more targeted, which I think is a good thing. The Commission proposal contains a net absorption target of 310 million tonnes of CO2 by 2030 for the European Union. However, the Council currently suggests not to account for emissions from natural disturbances in the calculation of Member States' compliance for the period 2026-2030 via Article 10 in the LULUCF sector, but to work with a net absorption target. In my view, this poses risks to environmental integrity, as it does not allow certain emissions to be accounted for in the calculation of compliance. I am therefore pleased that Parliament supports the Commission's proposal to delete Article 10 in the second period and to compensate for emissions of natural disturbances through limited flexibility available at Union level. I will continue to defend the same position in Belgium. I am less satisfied with the evolution of the CO2 standards file for cars and vans. Parliament does not raise the level of ambition significantly. Belgium has called from the outset for a higher level of ambition, notably by phasing out sales of internal combustion engines by 2030, instead of 2035, and an increase in the targets for 2025 and 2030. Together with my regional colleagues, I will therefore try to raise the level of ambition in the Council. In your question, you rightly mention that it is important that climate-neutral cars are affordable and that there are sufficient possibilities to recharge these cars. With regard to financial accessibility, we see that technology is evolving in the right direction and that electric cars are becoming increasingly the cheapest option, even without taking into account external costs, such as the pollution that fossil fuel cars cause and that we cannot ignore either. As regards recharging infrastructure, the Commission has proposed the Regulation on alternative fuel infrastructure, on which the Council adopted a position this month. In its recovery plan, Belgium also foresees a strong wave of investments in charging infrastructure. Finally, the vote in Parliament on the ETS dossier resulted in the failure that is known. The Environment Committee's proposals on raising the level of ambition and accelerating the abolition of free emission rights, which I welcome, have in a way been reversed, which has led to the loss of the majority necessary for the adoption of the dossier. I hope, however, that Parliament will soon find a position that is both ambitious and broadly supported. As regards the level of ambition and the tightening of the emission ceiling, the Federal Government supports the Commission's proposal to tighten the linear reduction factor combined with a single reduction in the emission ceiling (rebasing the cap). As far as I am concerned, the Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism (CBAM) is an excellent opportunity to reduce the free allowance so that the price signal in the ETS plays its part. However, we need to find a solution for exports under ETS that are not protected by CBAM. If these exports are adequately protected, at the federal level we are open to an accelerated abolition of the free allocation for the CBAM sectors, as originally proposed by the European Parliament's Environment Committee. As far as we are concerned, the Social Climate Fund is directly linked to the establishment of the ETS for buildings and road transport and can only be set up if this new ETS is in place. However, we do not yet have a definitive federal or Belgian position on this Fund, because it is strongly linked to other elements of the negotiations. In order to establish the Belgian position, discussions between firms at the federal and regional levels were initiated in due course at my instigation, so that all concerns and points of attention could be shared in a timely manner and solutions could be found. In this way, we can hope to avoid that, in the final phase, red lines and unrealistic positions are still shared by some partners, making it impossible to reach a Belgian compromise and obliging us to abstain again on various Council dossiers. At the same time, of course, our diplomats and administrations will best defend the Belgian positions in the final phase of the technical negotiations, so that the Presidency's final compromise proposal is as acceptable as possible to Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u44	Minister, the quality of your response allows me not to repeat your relevant response. Once again, I stress your clear and precise ambitions, in line with your general policy note. I would like to reiterate our position, in the context of the right transition, to ensure, for example, that electric and hydrogen cars are affordable. You also pointed out that. Finally, we stand by you to strengthen the fighting that you have reported and, above all, to ensure that this Social Climate Fund meets our common ambitions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u45	Minister, a few months ago, you announced your willingness to establish a Coordinating Body for Climate Threat Analysis (ACMA) to coordinate risk analysis and assessment and ensure that strategic decisions can be made in the light of changing climate conditions. In recent weeks, the IPCC has called the alarm and indicates that there are three years left to develop actions before the situation becomes irreversible. Your Climate OCAM would propose a solution to build on existing research, to establish correlations and to highlight the implications for our policies of climate change, vulnerability and potential threats such as floods, drought or extreme heat in relation to different geographical or demographic data. If you stated in this committee that the Climate OCAM would be dedicated to risk analysis and the formulation of recommendations with a view to achieving the objectives set, the question of funding and organisation of this tool remained open. What is the status of the Climate OCAM project? Is there a schedule? Can this project be implemented within the deadlines set by the IPCC, so as to develop recommendations that can be implemented within the next three years? What return can you provide with respect to its mandate, funding and composition? In general, can we get more information on the materials handled by the Climate OCAM? Will it take charge of crisis management and adaptation skills? You described this body as "unit of command." Can you provide us with information on the nature of the decisions that would fall within its competence, as well as on the decision-making procedures that will be its own? Will its decisions be binding? To what extent will the different levels of power be involved in this project? Could the OCAM Climate recommendations be addressed to specific levels of authority? If so, could they concern regional or even communal entities? Will the establishment of the Climate OCAM require a legislative anchor or the adoption of a new cooperation agreement? Madam Minister, I thank you in advance for your response and I would like to apologize to the translation as we need to read quickly to respect our speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u46	Mr Senesael, the scientists of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change have indeed recently, once again, drawn our attention to the climate crisis. All regions of the world are already experiencing the impact of climate change, and this impact will only increase as the climate continues to warm. In the light of this climate crisis, our country had to strengthen its capacity for risk analysis. As you mentioned, following my proposal, we decided last year to set up this coordinating body for the analysis and assessment of the risk associated with the climate crisis. This body, commonly called – but perhaps the time to find something else – climate OCAM, will carry out a holistic and multidisciplinary analysis of the risks to our country and report to the National Security Council. This type of multidisciplinary risk analysis is essential to help ensure stability and security in our country as well as to shape a thoughtful climate policy. IPCC experts stressed the importance of having such a risk analysis in order to give rise to an effective climate policy, they are fundamental to ensuring the transition to a climate-neutral and climate-resilient society, a transition that reduces risks for everyone. But this remains an unprecedented initiative, even at the international level. Work is going well. A tender for the contract for a study to support the establishment of the OCAM was published at the end of March. Offers are being evaluated by my administration. The contract will be awarded very soon. The aim of the study is to support the setting up of the climate OCAM, this study will feed into the reflection carried out by the Climate Change Service and my cabinet on the creation of this body. This study consists of three parts. Identification of relevant interlocutors, literature review and benchmarking analysis; definition of the place and role of climate OCAM in the Belgian institutional landscape and its scope of activity; and translation of the findings of the study into the operating scenario of climate OCAM. All this will take about six months. The study is based on a participatory methodology involving experts on climate risk governance, as well as members of institutions whose activities are linked to missions proposed by the climate OCAM. These will be consulted through interviews in parts 1 and 2 of the study. They will also be invited to discuss the findings of the study in the context of a restitution seminar organized in part 3 of the study. As I mentioned earlier, and I would like to stress here, the intention is not that this coordinating body for the analysis and assessment of the risk associated with the climate crisis should take the place of existing institutions. The discussions that will take place in the coming months will allow us to define the role and tasks of the Climate OCAM in more detail and in dialogue with the relevant bodies. However, I can already recall that the coordinating body will focus on risk analyses and not crisis management. It will provide analysis and advice to the National Security Council. Decisions will always be the responsibility of policy makers. The heart of the motivation for establishing such a body is that we now consider climate issues to be a national security issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u47	Madam President, I shall be brief, which will make it possible to recover the time that has been exceeded. First of all, Madam Minister, we can rejoice and congratulate you on the progress made. We can see that we are committed to continuing the momentum that has been printed, and I will certainly come back to this issue at the beginning of Parliament so that we can know how it has been followed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u48	Madam President, Minister, climate change has a particularly negative effect on employment. Indeed, they lead to a decline in productivity, a decline in the supply of employment and a fall in GDP. According to the European Trade Union Confederation (ETUC), climate change can lead to the permanent elimination of several hundred jobs. Temperature increases and thermal stress could reduce the number of working hours by 1.9% by 2030. However, according to the International Labour Organization (ILO), if climate change management is appropriate, it could lead to more and better jobs. Indeed, new jobs are likely to emerge. The newspaper Le Soir tells us that 80% of the jobs we will know in 30 years do not yet exist. "Sustainable" trades will grow in size. We refer to "sustainable" trades as economically viable trades aimed at reducing the climate impact. Minister, can we get your feedback on this, and more specifically on the negative impact of climate change on employment? In your policy note, you indicated "waiting for the conclusions of a study that the administration had just launched on employment and skills in the context of the transition". Have the results of this study come to you? If so, what conclusions can be drawn? Have any contacts been made with your colleague in charge of the Economy on this subject? Can we get information on how the High Committee of Experts for a Fair Transition could promote the development of sustainable trades in our country? Are specific initiatives envisaged for this purpose? Once again, are there any discussions with the Minister of Economy about this, as well as with the representatives of the federal bodies responsible for employment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u49	Dear colleague, a prospective participatory study on employment and training is under way in the context of the transition to a climate-neutral Belgium by 2050. For the purposes of this study, my services are working with the administration of my colleague, Minister Dermagne. This study is expected to be finalized by the end of this year. The ambition is to foster, on the employment and training aspects, the notion of just transition by articulating it around the scenarios that my administration has previously developed regarding the climate transition to 2050. The transition to a climate-neutral Belgium by 2050 is a paradigm shift requiring transformative measures to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions across all sectors. These changes will impact all components of our economy, including employment and training. In the context of decarbonisation, certain economic activities should be developed, such as the production of renewable energy or the transformation of certain activities such as car manufacturing or agriculture. On the other hand, other activities will be restricted or will disappear completely, such as refining petroleum products. These profound changes will have different impacts on the market, such as the creation of new jobs, the redefinition and transformation of existing jobs or the disappearance of jobs that have become "superfluous". It must also be taken into account that the implementation of climate policy will take place in parallel with other developments such as digitalisation or automation, which will also have an impact in terms of skills required on the labour market or in terms of available jobs. Some categories of workers are particularly vulnerable to changes in the labour market, for example, those with little or no schooling, those living in economically highly dependent regions which will be dismantled in the context of the transition. The prospective study aims to identify the risks and opportunities involved in the transition to employment and training. It will also be able to identify possible innovative actions to be implemented to ensure that the transition to a climate-neutral Belgium does not abandon anyone to their fate. I attach great importance to the participatory nature of the study. The involvement of stakeholders from all walks of life is fundamental, not only to ensure social justice, but also to take a fresh look at the challenges and opportunities in terms of employment and training, in the context of the climate transition. As for the question on the High Committee of Experts for a Fair Transition, I recall that I entrusted this committee with four tasks: to publish a special report that will answer the question "How to organize and institute the transition?"; to advise stakeholders; to disseminate the Committee's work and to feed us so that we can put the subject on the agenda at international level within the framework of the Belgian Presidency. The execution of each of these four missions can contribute to the development of sustainable trades. I would like to recall that the right transition is an internationally recognized concept, notably through the guidelines of the International Labour Organization (ILO), published in 2015 and 2018. The concepts of decent work, green employment and quality employment are defined more or less internationally. I must point out, however, that the concept of sustainable work is not yet defined and recognised and that unfortunately it is still the subject of a lot of green washing. I believe that the experts of the High Committee might indeed consider addressing this issue. Nevertheless, it is up to the stakeholders in employment policies (policies, public authorities, companies, trade unions, workers and all other actors in civil society) to seize the results of the work of the High Committee. At this stage, I believe that we must let the members of the High Committee work in peace. I would like to recall that their special report will serve as a contribution to the National Conference for a Transition just in 2023, if the other federated entities support the holding of this Conference, which I am trying to convince them to do. The federal government, including my colleague Dermagne and the Prime Minister, have given me the mandate to negotiate with the federated entities in order to achieve this national character. Other expected contributions include recommendations from a citizen's agora, an organised civil society forum and a working group within the administration, as well as advice from the Federal Councils.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u50	Minister, thank you for the thoroughness of your answer. The climate transition must indeed be social. As far as employment is concerned, these are opportunities for professional conversion to new jobs that we may not yet know. The development of sustainable trades must be our priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u51	Madam Secretary, I know that this is a theme that is very close to your heart. That's why I'm bringing it up again. My question is about a lurid subject, I think. Some Member States of the European Union want to allow pesticides banned on their territory to be exported if they are produced. For example, Neonicotinoids, which we have fought hard against, are still produced and exported on Belgian soil by Syngenta. France has already done pioneering work. That is where the export of such pesticides has been banned. I know you're working on this, so I'd like to ask you about the situation. If I am well informed, a feasibility study has been carried out to see whether such a ban can also be introduced here. How do you work with the civil sector for this dossier? Which organizations are you in contact with to assist you?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u52	Mrs Creemers, your questions give me the opportunity to give you an update on this dossier. In March 2022, I informed you that the legal study carried out by my administration showed that it was legally feasible to take action at the level of Belgium with a view to banning exports of chemicals that should not be placed on the EU market. On the basis of the conclusions of that study, I instructed my services to draw up a draft regulatory text. I'm currently investigating with my team the design of KB that my administration has submitted. There will be further consultations on this subject with Minister Vandenbroucke of Health and Minister Dermagne of Economy and Work, who is responsible for the protection of workers. That's the next step in this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u53	Madam Secretary, thank you for the update. I do not think that colleagues can object to this. If this is possible in France and it is legally possible, then I find it difficult to imagine that we are not acting in the interests of our own employees, as you yourself said, but also in the interests of our principles. What we do not support is also difficult to export. I look forward to the further development and publication of the KB. That would be a great victory for Belgium as a pioneer, but certainly also for the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u54	Minister, in recent months, a number of notable actions have taken gender issues into account in the context of climate policy. For example, at COP26, you made a commitment to include a gendered approach in the National Energy-Climate Plan (NECP), the preliminary draft of which will have to be submitted to the European Commission by 30 June 2023. On 17 August 2021, the Gender and Development Advisory Council issued an opinion on gender mainstreaming in the implementation of the PNEC policies and measures. Have you read this opinion? If so, can we have your return? Can we obtain information on the progress of the revision of the NCP? To what extent are you considering integrating gender dimensions into the federal contribution? Will any of the elements of the opinion I have just mentioned be retained? Has this topic been discussed with representatives of the federated entities? Do you intend to include relevant associations in the consultation process? Can other initiatives to mainstream gender in climate policy be considered, both at national and international level? Finally, can you provide us with information on our country's work within the United Nations on the gender dimensions of climate policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u55	Madam Member, I did receive last year's opinion from the Gender and Development Advisory Council. After going through it very carefully, I asked my administration to consider how the recommendations contained in this opinion could be taken into account. One of these recommendations was the establishment of a national focal point on gender and climate change, so that our country has recently re-established such a focal point. At my instigation, my administration put the subject on the table of inter-federal consultation. It is essential, after three years, that someone assume this role in our country and participate in international discussions in this capacity. At Belgian level, collaboration will be initiated between the designated referents within each entity. As for the revision of the PNEC, a revised draft PNEC is to be submitted to the Commission by June 2023. It has been decided in the National Climate Commission-CONCERE that the federal and federated entities each provide their contribution by the end of March 2023 and that the following months will be used to integrate the different parties. A public consultation will be organised on the basis of this revised draft of the PNEC and the opinions issued by relevant associations on this draft may be taken into account for the final version of the revised PNEC to be submitted to the Commission by June 2024. At the federal level, the draft of the federal plan is being drafted in several stages. First, the government and its various ministers are proposing new policies and measures (MAPs) – this is the current phase of climate governance. Secondly, these measures will be discussed with stakeholders in the context of the climate round tables in the second half of this year. Finally, federal measures will be refined on the basis of the results of these roundtables. The gender issue has been integrated throughout the exercise. For all federal MAPs, I have decided to introduce an assessment of their potential impacts on sustainable development goals, thus covering the issues of just transition and gender equality. I would also like to highlight other initiatives related to capacity-building. I have previously taken the initiative to organise a training course on gender mainstreaming in policies, given by the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. Federal officials were invited to take this training and among them those who follow the theme of climate change. The federal government is currently finalizing a series of federal adaptation measures. Federal governments have collaborated in a federal "adaptation" working group coordinated by the Climate Change Department. In view of the importance of gender mainstreaming in all aspects of climate policy, we have also, in this specific context, proposed the support of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men to each administration concerned so that it can take the gender dimension into maximum consideration in the proposed adaptation measure. An item on gender and climate change is also on the agenda in the context of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. This is being actively monitored by our country. A session of the Framework Convention is currently taking place in Bonn. This will include an interim evaluation of the implementation of the Gender Action Plan. This process will take into account the input our country has provided for the implementation of this plan in the European Union. The recently established national focal point on gender and climate change actively participates in the European group that follows and negotiates gender within the UNFCCC.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic814x.u56	Minister, thank you for your answers. I was well aware of this in your speech. I will not hesitate to take note of it so that I can have a follow-up. But in any case, your answers are welcomed. Thank you.
