ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u1	Mr President, Prime Minister, a little more than a year ago, on 22 January 2021, entered into force the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons (TIAN), which Belgium has neither signed nor ratified. In this Treaty, States Parties undertake to prohibit the development, testing, production, stockpiling, transfer, use and threat of use of nuclear weapons, due to the obvious potential humanitarian consequences of their use. Given the current context and the war in Ukraine, it seems to me appropriate to begin, without prejudice to our country's strong involvement in NATO, to prepare us for the reopening of discussions at the international level on nuclear disarmament in order, in the long run, to achieve total disarmament. Of course, we know that such disarmament is not for tomorrow, but the Russian threat reminds us that it is in the interest of humanity to bring the Powers back into a progressive process of disarmament as soon as possible. I believe that, despite its small size, our country is in a position to play a central geostrategic role. Prime Minister, what efforts has this government made at the multilateral level towards nuclear disarmament? In what spirit will he go to the next conference of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons? Does the government envisage, like Germany or Norway, taking advantage of the opportunity to participate as an observer at the first TIAN conference in the summer of 2022? If not, why not? Finally, the government agreement provides that Belgium will verify how the TIAN can give new impetus to multilateral nuclear disarmament. Has this audit been conducted? If so, what are the results?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, the first conference of the States parties to the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons will be held in Vienna from 21 to 23 June. This Treaty entered into force more than a year ago. Today, 86 countries have signed it and 60 have ratified it. This treaty is essential since it shows the ineffectiveness today of the non-proliferation of the most destructive and deadly weapon that has ever been built and that it seeks a new way of simply banning it by bringing together the nations of good will. We have lived for 80 years with a sword of Damocles above our head, and the current situation in Europe is an additional alarm. Nuclear deterrence is based on a principle of logical reasoning. However, we are never immune from the insanity of an unstable leader. For the past three months, every morning, we wonder if Putin will not cross this final frontier of nuclear war. Prime Minister, what role is Belgium ready to play in the Ban Treaty? Belgium is invited as an observer State. Will it, like other NATO member countries such as Norway and Germany, accept this invitation? Finally, is the presence of American nuclear weapons on Belgian territory compatible with the Non-Proliferation Treaty to which Belgium is a signatory?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u3	Madam Secretary, in 2017, 122 countries signed the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons (TPNW).
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u4	Prime Minister, we read a very striking passage in the coalition agreement: without prejudice to our commitments and commitments within NATO, Belgium will continue to actively promote nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation at global level." A little further, we read that consideration will be given to how the multilateral non-proliferation framework can be strengthened and how the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons can give a new impetus to multilateral nuclear disarmament. That is a short point, but it is full of contradictions. There is a framework for efforts towards nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation within NATO, but NATO defines itself as a nuclear alliance and has made nuclear deterrent a cornerstone of its policy. This is also a cornerstone in which Belgium actively cooperates by stationing nuclear weapons on our territory and participating in NATO's nuclear exercises. Two of our NATO counterparts, Britain and the United States, have violated the spirit and also the letter of the Non-Proliferation Treaty by supplying nuclear submarines to non-nuclear Australia. Meanwhile, in flagrant contradiction to the coalition agreement of 30 September 2020, on 7 December, less than two months later, the government voted against a UN resolution welcoming the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons and encouraging countries to join, despite the fact that there is broad democratic support. Seventy-seven percent of the Belgian population are in favour of the signing of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. Mr Prime Minister, can you at last give us ready wine and tell us exactly what the government's position is on the nuclear weapons ban treaty? What efforts has your government made so far in the context of that passage in the coalition agreement? Can you tell us whether this government will participate in the meeting of state partners? Will the government send an observer at the beginning of next week? Can you clarify what position our country will defend on that prohibition treaty at the Non-Proliferation Treaty Review Conference?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u5	Mr Prime Minister, my questions are, of course, in line with those of a number of colleagues. At the end of this month, the parties to the UN Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons meet for the first time. In 2017, the Convention was signed by as many as 122 countries. The Convention also entered into force on 22 January 2021 and 60 States have already ratified it. Interested countries, institutions and organisations are also invited to participate as observers at the first meeting of the Contracting Parties. A number of NATO Member States, such as Norway and Germany, have already announced their participation. How do you view the decision of Norway and Germany to participate in the conference as an observer? Does Belgium intend to respond to the same invitation? In what way do you think the treaty will give a positive boost to nuclear disarmament?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, as colleagues have already said, the first meeting of the States parties to the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons (TIAN) will be held from 21 to 23 June 2022 in Vienna. Several voices stand in favour of our country's participation in this conference as an observer. I must admit that I wonder about the relevance of these demands, especially in the current context of the war in Ukraine. It is well known that the Treaty has been ratified by some 60 countries, as one colleague has said, and it is legally binding only on them. No country possessing nuclear weapons has ratified it. For us, the cornerstone of nuclear weapons is the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, the Treaty signed in 1968 and entered into force in 1970. Currently, only three States with significant nuclear capabilities are not part of the NPT: India, Israel and Pakistan. Let us remember that the next NPT Review Conference, and I think it is important on the agenda, will take place next August! For all of us, TIAN is weakening the NPT, as well as the International Atomic Energy Agency and its tools for verifying and implementing nuclear non-proliferation and technology monitoring commitments. We therefore believe that attending this meeting as an observer would not be appropriate at this stage. As I said, the international context reminds us of how fragile peace and security are. In my view, our presence would call into question our adherence to NATO's policy of deterrence at a time when it is most necessary for us. Moreover, as an observer State, Belgium would participate financially in the conference, which would be contradictory to our country's political position vis-à-vis this treaty. Our country could then be perceived as inconsistent with nuclear deterrence issues, which could create a breach of trust with the majority of the other allies of the Atlantic Alliance. Belgium would face consequences in other NATO cases where our position is fragile, particularly with regard to defence spending. Belgium is one of the worst students of NATO with regard to the budget allocated to its defence, it must be recalled. Prime Minister, my question is therefore simple. What is your position on Belgium's presence as an observer member as requested by some?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government has clearly given priority to nuclear disarmament at the multilateral level. Undoubtedly, in the current security environment, tensions are high, which is a challenge to the success of the Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). Nevertheless, Belgium remains committed to a conference that is as ambitious as possible. Our country will give priority to four themes: nuclear disarmament, the prohibition of nuclear testing, the reduction of nuclear risk and the verification of the dismantling of nuclear weapons. The Belgian contribution is prepared in close consultation with the affinitarian countries. Thus, Belgium formally supports the proposals for nuclear disarmament of the Stockholm Initiative. The objective of the Initiative is to bring nuclear-weapon States closer to non-nuclear-weapon States in order to engage in nuclear disarmament under article 6 of the Non-Proliferation Treaty. Belgium has also joined the proposals of this Initiative with regard to nuclear risk reduction. At national level, last November, Foreign Affairs organised a public seminar on the Belgian contribution to the NPV review conference to prepare it. The UN High Representative for Disarming, Izumi Nakamitsu, gave the opening address. Belgium has also drawn up a working paper with the ideas to promote the prohibition of nuclear testing by means of concrete measures. This working document was co-sponsored by 16 other countries and became an official document of the Review Conference. In addition, Belgium will organise a meeting of the International Partnership for Nuclear Disarmament Verification in Brussels at the end of June. The participants in this initiative are committed to nuclear disarmament which is truly verifiable and thus provides the necessary guarantees for the implementation of international agreements. I would remind you that the aim of NATO is to create the conditions for a world without nuclear weapons. Last December, the Foreign Minister stressed the Belgian position at the NATO ministerial meeting in Riga. Strengthening the role of NATO as a forum for consultation on arms control, disarmament and non-proliferation is part of NATO 2030 initiative. This should include consultations on existing and future disarmament agreements as well as confidence-building measures and coordination of positions in other international fora. With NATO, we will ensure that its role in this approach is maintained and strengthened in the revision of the strategic concept to be adopted at the NATO Summit in Madrid at the end of June. Nuclear deterrents are also defined in the NATO framework. Belgium plays an active role in this and decides on what attitude NATO should adopt towards Russia's increased nuclear rhetoric. The de-escalation remains a priority for Belgium. With regard to the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons (TIAN), Belgium notes that no nuclear-weapon country has acceded to it, nor have our NATO allies. It is clear that the real disarmament effort should include countries that possess nuclear weapons. In addition, the TIAN does not contain any mechanism for implementing or monitoring the commitments of States Parties. TIAN mobilizes public opinion and – as far as necessary – revives the debate on nuclear disarmament. At the same time, the security environment has deteriorated rapidly and sharply. Nevertheless, Belgium remains fully committed to a world free of nuclear weapons through tools that offer the safeguards necessary for effective implementation. I would like to add that, since Russian aggression against Ukraine, it has become even clearer how fragile security in the world is and how important NATO solidarity and a strong deterrent policy are. In the current context, it is even more delicate to consider supporting the TPNW, as that would cast doubt on our determination and unity within the alliance. The vast majority of NATO members remain opposed to the Treaty. In the current state of the security situation in Europe and the reflections and debates taking place both within the framework of the NPT and within NATO, Belgium continues to reflect on the best way to integrate the new impetus for disarmament symbolised by the TPNW.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u8	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I take note of your commitment, including to the Stockholm initiative. What the Russian threat tells us is that we are far from the nuclear threat as it was staged, for example, by Mr. Kubrick in Dr. Folamour. Now the nuclear threat is no longer just that of the cold war. It can be used by any state with imperialist aims, even without total destruction. In my view, therefore, we are in another dynamic and I believe that our country should make greater use of its diplomatic tools, even if no one doubts our deep commitment or that of our allies to total disarmament. We are not really taking the first step, and that is worrying.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u9	Mr Prime Minister, as you said, Belgium supports nuclear disarmament and I welcome it. But it seems to me that the most effective is still the outright prohibition of these weapons rather than what we are trying to do at the moment to disarm the planet. I'm not saying it's easy, and nobody says it, or that it can be done quickly. It is not tomorrow, once the treaty has been signed, that there will be no nuclear weapons in the world, but I believe that it is more necessary than ever, as Mr De Smet said right now. Indeed, today we are in close balance, on the edge of the precipice. We have leaders who possess nuclear weapons but are no longer in a situation or in a system of logic, and who can at any time decide to press a button. It's more complicated than a button, but we understood what I meant. So this is the time when, on the contrary, we will never accelerate the work to ban nuclear weapons. I believe that the Non-Proliferation Treaty is not working properly. That's clear. We'll have to review it. It will be done in August. But I do not agree when I hear some colleagues say that the TIAN weakens the NPT. For me, on the contrary, it reinforces it. It shows that it is absolutely necessary to speed up this aspect. I am not saying that we must join immediately, because indeed we have international commitments. But we must be present as observers. That does not mean anything but good will in the context of global disarmament. I really believe that this Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons does more than mobilize citizens. This is really a step in the right direction at the diplomatic level. I think we need to join, as observers at least, this conference that is taking place on Tuesday and next Wednesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u10	Mr Prime Minister, thank you for your answer, even though we have been given the explanation of the position on nuclear disarmament on a number of occasions. First of all, you argue that, given the international context, we must pay attention to what we say. I agree that the international context is more important than ever, but it is particularly important that we continue to talk about it. Threatened to use nuclear weapons. If used, it would have a huge impact on our climate, our health systems, our food safety. That is why today's diplomatic path is more important than ever. Reference is made to NATO. Of course, we want to work in a NATO context, but for us membership of NATO does not stand in the way of international nuclear disarmament commitments. This is also the case for Germany and Norway, both of which are members of NATO. Next, reference is made to the Non-Proliferation Treaty. But it is well known that the treaty does not work, because it does not comply with the commitments made. That is why it is important for us that Belgium walks all those slopes. Our country has always played a diplomatic leading role on the international stage when it comes to international conventions relating to the spread of deadly weapons. We have played a leading role in the establishment of the Ottawa Convention on Anti-personnel Mines and in the Oslo Convention on Cluster Munitions, and we have fought for the strengthening of international standards against chemical weapons and biological weapons. We can also play a role now. Hence our question whether you are absolutely considering that Belgium will become an observer at the next meeting of the contracting parties on the UN Convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u11	Your answer is again very official and not significant. The bottom line is that the government is once again missing an historic opportunity to respect its coalition agreement. So you're not going to the Meeting of the States Parties. You remain firmly committed to NATO's nuclear strategy. Belgium would much rather run the lead of the United States than take a sovereign position on that dossier. That's incomprehensible. After all, Belgium has the tradition of being a precursor in numerous disarmament negotiations and treaties on anti-personnel mines and cluster munitions, for example. Now Belgium is dangling at the bottom when it comes to the most destructive weapons of mass destruction. Belgium must not miss the train. In 2017 we have already missed the appointment with history, but we can still attach our car. It is the logic itself that the Belgian Government is going there. You always argue that we need this deterrent, but this deterrent has failed. The two main nuclear powers, both the United States and Russia, have 13,000 nuclear warheads. They're shifting their nuclear doctrines. They modernise nuclear weapons and increasingly see them as a means that can be used. Belgium, as an unofficial nuclear power station, must sign the ban treaty to at least convince our allies of the multilateral disarmament we need. It's still a missed opportunity. Fortunately, a parliamentary delegation goes to the Meeting of the States Parties. That is already an important signal. I can only hope that the government will soon follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u12	Prime Minister, you have clearly stressed the importance of nuclear disarmament. You have confirmed our country's ambitious attitude in this matter in NATO and in NATO. On the other hand, the nuclear disarmament process in the Non-Proliferation Treaty is unmistakable. So we are all best off looking for alternative ways to give it a new impetus. Let us be clear - there are often rather caricatures about some positions, which are not about one-sided nuclear disarmament, but about a multilateral path towards fewer nuclear weapons on our globe. There are many provisions in the coalition agreement. Many of these provisions have already been implemented. The provision that we will examine how the nuclear ban treaty can boost nuclear disarmament remains dead letter so far. Several groups have already called for operationalisation. The government's busy. Operationalisation in accordance with the coalition agreement is necessary. There are different ways of doing that. It could be about membership. It could be about voting. It could be about observer status. That is why we ask you to take the matter to heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u13	Mr Prime Minister, I and my group share the four priorities you have mentioned, namely nuclear disarmament, the prohibition of nuclear testing, the prohibition of nuclear risk and dismantling. However, Belgium does not necessarily have to be an observer for the TIAN to address these four priorities. In fact, it already does so in many cenacles. Participating in the Stockholm initiative is obviously essential in this regard. With regard to TIAN stricto sensu, no nuclear country has ratified it and there is no implementation mechanism in the Treaty. The majority of NATO members oppose it. I therefore believe that an input note to the NATO summit next June, but also in August at the NPT Review Conference, will be essential to our goal of defending the four priorities that you have outlined.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u14	Prime Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u15	Madam Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u16	Mr President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u17	Mr President, I would also like to refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u18	I also refer to the question submitted in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u19	Our question was so well drafted that I can refer to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, once again there is a great fear of seeing Pr. Djalali, whose fate has already been the subject of many debates in our committee, executed in the coming days. Pending the execution of his sentence, it is neither more nor less than torture that this man must suffer in prison, as several United Nations experts have recently claimed. The teacher's wife once again, last week, urged the European states to do everything in their power to try to prevent this execution. There is no need, Prime Minister, to recall the conditions under which this professor was tried and sentenced. We are all aware of this in this committee, since the subject has come back several times in our discussions. A few weeks ago, in plenary session, you announced that you had requested contact with the Iranian President in order, in particular, to mention the case of Pr. Djalali. Prime Minister, have you received a response to this request? If so, what was it? Since your speech in plenary on May 5, how has the situation evolved according to your knowledge? What is the latest information you have on the general state of Pr. Djalali? What steps have been taken in recent days by the international community, the European Union and Belgium to avoid such execution and to act in favour of Pr. Djalali? More broadly, it is known that Iran is the second country in the world to have the most use of the death penalty, after China, and that the authorities show no willingness to put an end to this system. How does this affect relations between our two countries? In your opinion, should we go further in our actions to combat this practice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u21	Mr President, I refer to the question put in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. The fate of Dr. Djalali, a renowned expert in disaster medicine, affects public opinion worldwide. We do, because as you know, he was active as a guest professor at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel for a while. Like you, I note that Dr Djalali has not been executed so far, although the Iranian press had announced that this would happen on 21 May 2022. However, that is certainly not a relief. My services and I remain very concerned. After all, we have not been given any guarantee that the death penalty will not be applied, which we strongly demand. As I told you during my speech on May 5th in the plenary of the House and at a time when the imminent execution of Pr. Jalali, the Belgian authorities have continued since the arrest of Pr. Jalali in 2016 to be in contact with the Iranian authorities, in order to express our concern about his conditions of detention in his physical and mental health, as well as to avoid such execution. The FPS Foreign Affairs has been following the situation for many years, pleading for its execution to be commuted. Various members of the previous government, including Prime Minister Charles Michel, had contacted their Iranian counterparts to urge them not to allow the execution to apply. I myself had written to President Rohani at the time to make a clear request that the execution should not take place. More recently, on 19 February, Foreign Minister Wilmès met with her Iranian counterpart and repeatedly requested that the execution be commuted. Since the announcement of the execution of Pr. Jalali, I spoke on 11 May with Iranian President Raissi about the fate of Pr. Djalali and I repeated our request. He, without confirming to me the announcement of the execution of Dr. Djalali for 21 May, reminded me of the independence of the Iranian judiciary and the fact that the convicted person had exhausted all domestic remedies. I reiterated to him that Belgium was firmly opposed to the death penalty. A few weeks later, I sent the same message to the Iranian Foreign Minister in person. Secondly, the FPS Foreign Affairs has been in contact with the Iranian Embassy on this subject to obtain confirmation of this announcement and has underlined our total opposition to the death penalty. The Iranian ambassador to Brussels was also convened on 12 May to obtain explanations and to relay our requests to his authorities in Tehran. We have also contacted the European External Action Services to ensure that Enrique Mora, the European nuclear negotiator for Iran (JCPOA), takes advantage of his bilateral contacts in Tehran on 11 and 12 May to raise this issue and call for the suspension of the Iranian decision. We also wanted the High Representative for the Union's foreign policy to inform his counterpart and relay our call, which he did on 21 May. Finally, we are in regular contact with our Swedish colleagues but also with Dr. Djalali's family and lawyers to coordinate us. On 11 May, I wrote to his wife and children reminding them of our full support and the steps Belgium has taken to avoid his execution. I also welcome the letter sent by the Presidents of the House and the Senate to their Iranian counterpart. As far as Dr Djalali's health is concerned, Sweden claims that he has undergone a surgical procedure due to intestinal problems. He also had COVID-19 in January and would have recovered. I do not wish to speculate on sanctions in the case of Dr Djaliali's execution. I don't like answering questions like that. Our country still hopes that Dr. Djalali will not be executed. Belgium is working hard to do this, together with the others. As regards the case of Iranian diplomat Assadi, convicted in our country, I would remind you that Belgium is a rule of law. The principle of separation of powers is essential. In the Belgian legal system there is no such thing as a swap or prisoner exchange, there is no legal basis for that. The judiciary has done its work in all independence and without outside influence. This is all I can say about this. This brings me to the following questions about the other bipatrids in captivity in Iran. Firstly, the recent release of an Iranian-British citizen is a good thing for those involved and their neighbours. As regards the specific questions on the total number of bipatrids in captivity in Iran, it is impossible to give a precise figure. In addition, it concerns information of a national and confidential nature, which also relates to privacy. We also have no idea of any bilateral talks between other countries with Iran. It is very sensitive information that is usually not shared. Therefore, I cannot comment on possible early release. Finally, I would stress that this issue, apart from Western passport holders held in Iran, is regularly discussed in forums where issues of respect for human rights are discussed, such as in the Human Rights Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u23	Prime Minister, I thank you for your answer, which contains several details and informs us of the many steps that have been taken. I would also like to confirm our total and unequivocal opposition to the death penalty. Our Assembly has, moreover, unanimously voted on a motion for a resolution calling for the release of Professor Djalali. I would therefore like to reiterate the profound solidarity of the members of our committee with his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u24	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I am well aware of the efforts made by you and by our diplomacy, whose commitment in this matter I welcome, to try to put pressure on Iran in order to prevent the execution of Mr. Djalali. We have no alternative but to continue our efforts and to make Iran, in this and many other cases, understand that the application of the death penalty – whatever the context – is not acceptable to us and can cause consequences in other areas; since we are negotiating with Iran on several issues. Thank you for continuing your fight in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u25	Prime Minister, for more than six years, Professor Djalali has been unjustly detained and held hostage by a dictatorial regime. Over and over again there is a threat to execute him in order to force Western countries to exchange him or others in a similar situation for former Iranian officials convicted abroad and/or tried for terrorist acts. This constant blackmail is dragging on. It's an unsustainable situation, not the least for his family. It is also a politically intolerable situation. Let us hope that it does not come to that, but if the execution were to be carried out, then, in addition to harsh economic and diplomatic sanctions, consideration should be given to removing all representatives of the Iranian regime immediately and closing the embassy, which provides hand and span services to terror. Belgium must stop any trade with Iran. Trade interests really no longer outweigh human lives and human rights. We can only hope that by massive international pressure Ahmadreza Djalali, a father and husband, will eventually and quickly be reunited with his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u26	Mr Prime Minister, thank you for your reply and your struggle to save Dr Djalali's life. He has been sentenced to the death penalty for four years, but he is still alive. Every time the ayatollahs demand something from the West, his death penalty comes up. That's enough to show he's innocent. It would be very good if we also demanded that he be released unconditionally. He's been in prison for six years and repeatedly trying to blackmail Iran into negotiating Dr. Djalali's life. You continue to work for his life and for his family, I know you do, but you must also make it clear that any execution of the death penalty will have a very serious impact on our diplomatic relationship.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u27	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. Following your statements in plenary session on 5 May 2022, it is clear that the entire Belgian government has developed very many contacts at the highest level with Iranian interlocutors. You have the full support of our group to continue this path in such a way that we can achieve the rapid release of Professor Djalali. It seems important to me to make it clear, from our country, that any execution will have an impact on our relations with Iran. That seems very logical to me. It is also good that you have stressed that a prisoner exchange is inherently impossible under our legal system. That's not the way our country works. We further encourage you to increase the pressure. I would also like to draw your attention to a recent analysis by Amnesty International. More and more votes are taking place to regard the imprisonment of Professor Djalali as a hostage take. This has a certain consequence in legal and international law. If we consider this imprisonment to be a hostageage, we refer to international law, which prohibits the taking of hostages. Both Iran, Belgium and Sweden are parties to the international treaty on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u28	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. In my view, there is unanimity in Parliament on this matter. You can also count on the support of our group for all the efforts that have been made. The word hostage has just fallen. De facto it is that, of course, because Dr. Djalali is being used as currency exchange. You have replied to what you have said, and I think that attitude is right. I'm missing one more element, but I actually want to express it differently. You are in contact with Sweden, which is also a party. Much more than the Professor Djalali involved, it is about a system in which Iran uses people as currency exchange for Iranian diplomats and officials convicted elsewhere. In other words, we can involve other allies than Sweden, countries that could potentially end up in the same situation. Perhaps it strengthens the power of our voice when you can unite countries that are not today, but perhaps tomorrow with a similar situation, in order to put even more pressure on Iran in group. Thus, Iran can see that the game is not working, because Iran is wrongly counting on people to be used as currency exchange. That suggestion might strengthen the pressure you exert, which will receive our appreciation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u29	Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. You are right, the scenario of the announcement of the execution of Professor Djalali followed by a postponement has already occurred several times. Unfortunately, that should not reassure us of the fate of the professor. As your predecessors Charles Michel and Sophie Wilmès did, you intercede with our diplomacy to at least commute Professor Djalali's sentence. Thank you for your efforts and your empathy for Professor Djalali's family. I think it's essential. I urge you, like my colleagues, to continue your efforts. You are talking about coordination with your Swedish colleagues; this is obviously a good thing and perhaps we should step up or expand this international collaboration to put pressure on Tehran in order to find a solution to Professor Djalali's ordeal, which has been going on for six years now. And, beyond this particular case, fight against Iran's death penalty system, which will require all our diplomatic efforts. I thank you, in any case, for your action in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u30	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. On behalf of our group, too, I would like to thank you for all the diplomatic efforts. What is happening now is a personal drama for Professor Djalali and his family. I must say that the answer you have received from the Iranian authorities seems particularly cynical to me, as they point out the independence of justice to justify the behaviour they exhibit. Thank you for keeping up the pressure. You have heard that you have the unanimous support of all the political groups here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u31	Prime Minister, we were all shocked by the sad and unfortunate news from your colleague, Mrs Wilmès. This forced you to rearrange your government and that recast has been noticed, both inside and outside the government. The minister post in question was transferred to another party and that gave rise to many speculations. The division of powers that have been delegated is a bit difficult, since sometimes Parliamentary questions are passed on to Secretary of State Michel, and then you get them. The distribution is rather unclear, but I do have the impression that back office is working together. You just said you don't like answering questions. Secretary of State Michel used exactly the same wording the day before yesterday. Of course, great minds may come to the same phrase in a very coincidental manner, but I suspect that there is cooperation between the two of you. Due to your busy foreign activities, you have occasionally had to be replaced. The examples set out in my question are no longer recent, because the question was submitted a while ago. As far as Parliament's control function is concerned, you sometimes tend not to hold on to your answer to your magazine when answering a question. The committee members do not always refer to their written question and sometimes give in to the inspiration of the moment. I have the impression that Secretary of State Michel is reacting less to this and that he is holding on more to the text he has given him. That does not increase the quality of the parliamentary debate. In short, you are sometimes abroad to represent our country, which means that you are unable to take part in the parliamentary debate. How do you evaluate this transfer of powers? Would it not have been better to give that important function to someone who can devote himself fully to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u32	Mr President, Mr De Roover, as you say, I think we know the history of that decision. For the reasons you have cited, powers have been temporarily transferred to Minister Clarinval, Secretary of State Michel and myself. The purpose of this distribution is to ensure continuity of work in difficult times for Mrs Wilmès. In order to carry out Parliament's audit function, the Secretary of State was present on 18 May and yesterday at my request in the Committee on External Relations. The Secretary of State replied to some 70 questions from members of the committee and also submitted two treaties for ratification. Today I am here for some important debates with MEPs. In future planned committee meetings, the government will be represented each time. As mentioned earlier, the work goes on of course. An evaluation of this situation will take place this summer. In the meantime, you can be sure that Belgium's representation on the international stage and the management of that ministerial portfolio are properly assured. Mr De Roover, I would like to go into this a little further. I think everyone is very well aware that the current situation is a very exceptional situation. We have therefore also opted for a somewhat unusual solution. Nevertheless, I believe that this unusual solution is in balance with the most exceptional choice made by Mrs Wilmès. I think everyone has respect and appreciation for Mrs Wilmès' choice. My reasoning was that such very personal and exceptional choices should be possible. I understand that you call the method chosen unusual, but I think that the unusualness is in balance with the choice made by Mrs Wilmès. As I said earlier, an evaluation will take place this summer. We will do so in an open manner, and we will try again to find a balance with regard to the situation at that time and with regard to what our country needs. There is, of course, a reason to appoint ministers with different powers and not to place all the powers with the Prime Minister. I have the impression that you also agree with the fact that we have found a temporary exceptional solution. Since I call that solution exceptional, I would like to point out that this solution cannot be maintained for years. In this sense, no one has spoken out either.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u33	Prime Minister, I do not think Mr Michel would have mentioned that last part, because you looked up from your magazine. I don't want to leave any misunderstandings. We have understanding and sympathy for Mrs Wilmès' situation. I personally testified to them, too. Fortunately, this is an unusual and special situation. That is not the point I wish to make, and there must be no misunderstanding about it. Those circumstances are therefore highly unusual. However, that does not mean that the solution you have given does not result from this. That is absolutely not the case. I think we need a fully-fledged Foreign Minister, in all circumstances. The solution that has been found has given the impression that no one at the MR is able to carry out that function, that there would be a staff problem after Mrs Wilmès' strong figure. In addition, the impression has also emerged that you would like to put yourself in the spotlight internationally. You regret that this impression has arisen, but if journalists notice it, there is a logic behind it. An evaluation will therefore take place this summer. We hope that Mrs Wilmès will be able to carry out her duties as soon as possible, but with all due respect for her situation. I wonder whether this evaluation, if it is made fair, in the event that Mrs Wilmès is no longer able to carry out her duties, will show that another and better solution must be found in the interests of our Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u34	Mr President, thank you for being flexible with the agenda. I do indeed have a number of questions about the foreign policy which this government intends to pursue and, above all, about the cooperation that should be established with the Länder. I see a number of very interesting passages in the coalition agreement on federalism and pragmatism to show respect on the international scene for the powers of every government in this country and to ensure that everyone can also make their voice heard there. I have already asked Mrs Wilmès how she intended to deal with this, but now that we have a new Foreign Minister, I thought it would be a good time to update the question, also in view of a number of recent statements made by the Prime Minister. The coalition agreement talks about a pragmatic federalism of cooperation that is being used. I am, of course, familiar with the consultations between the Länder such as the DGE. However, I would like to stress whether additional efforts or new actions are planned to shape pragmatic federalism for cooperation. We all know that there is already a long debate, including in the government agreement, on the 1994 cooperation agreements, which agree on the division of labour at European and international level. It is then about who goes to the meetings, a federal minister or a state minister, how the relationships are and who exactly pushes them. The coalition agreement states that these cooperation agreements would finally be brought into line with the current division of powers. That has not been the case for a long time. A number of powers have been defederalised, but international representation has not yet been established. Where's the file? Do you have an up-to-date state of affairs as the current Foreign Minister and as Prime Minister, overseeing the entire coalition agreement? Mr President, if you will allow me, I would also like to add my question. 55027754C. [[Assent]] This question is also part of a fairly urgent agenda. We know that Belgium will be President of the European Council in the spring of 2024. It's gonna take some time to prepare all that. It is therefore all the more important to know now what the agreements are, who exactly will be at the table and what the efforts will hopefully be made very quickly. In this way, we can fill in the Presidency of the European Union as efficiently and effectively as possible and weigh on the agenda. Of course, this can only happen when the appropriate people, with the most expertise and the proper administration behind them, are at the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u35	Mr Loones, the ICBB of 23 February decided to set up working groups at the level of policy cells and cabinets for the 1994 and 1995 cooperation agreements. It expressly stated that this should be done in the short term. The first conclusions of the working groups will be discussed at the next ICBB meeting. It's scheduled for July 5th. To this end, Minister Wilmès' cabinet, for which I am now responsible, organised a meeting with the representatives of the Länder to refine the methodology and propose a calendar for the discussions. On 2, 7, 9 and 14 June a meeting was held on the Belgian representation in the various configurations of the European Union. The purpose of the discussion was to give each party the opportunity to formally make known its requests in connection with the formation of the council in question. This may include a possible change in category but also any other aspect which may contribute to a concrete improvement in the exchange of information and the extent to which the interests of all concerned are taken into account. An additional working group will be set up before 5 July to discuss the other aspects of the 1994 and 1995 agreements. The aim is to take into account the expectations of all levels of government and the European agenda for the years to come, in order to finally identify the aspects that could form the basis for a possible agreement. I would remind you that, as agreed at the ICBB of 23 February, it was a shared wish to work within a short time frame. This is a complex issue which has been on the agenda of the Consultative Committee for many years. You also asked me about examples of recent initiatives carried out in accordance with agreed competences. I can cite as an example the recent foreign trade mission to the United States, the mission to the United Kingdom and the regular DGE meetings on the positions defended in the European Council, for example by myself. You also asked a question about the Belgian Presidency. I will go into that immediately. Work on the preparation of the Belgian Presidency of the Council of the Union has already begun. The federated entities are not only closely involved, they also actively participate in this exercise. On 15 October last year, the EU2024 Task Force organised an inter-departmental event to launch the preparation of the Presidency. There was a large rise of high-level representatives of policy cells and administrations, both from federal administrations and from federated entities. On 9 February, this task force first brought together the steering group for EU2024. The composition of the Steering Committee reflects that of the Consultation Committee and is complemented by the Permanent Representative of Belgium to the EU and the Coordinators of the Task Force EU2024. The Steering Committee shall be chaired by the Director-General of European Affairs and Coordination. Consequently, the cabinets of the five prime ministers and the cabinets of Flemish vice-minister-president Crevits and State Secretary Smet of the Brussels-Capital Region are also present in this steering committee. The consultation mechanism consists of three working groups: the Communication Group, the Operational Affairs Group and the Programme Group. They are covered by the steering committee. The ratio of this simple structure is to work on two levels. The Heads of Cabinet and their representatives shall sit at the steering committee level. In addition, those responsible meet on a subject-by-issue basis at the level of the working groups. In these working groups there are representatives of the Cabinets as well as of the relevant administrations at federal and federated level. In the meantime, two steering meetings, nine programme meetings, two operational affairs meetings and four communication meetings have already been organised. These meetings represented both the federal level and the federated entities. Also for programme meetings dealing with Category 1 matters, the Prime Minister's Cabinets were invited as observers. In addition, there were some exclusive federal meetings with federal budget for the Presidency. To ensure the interfederal flow of information, a single point network of contacts has been set up. Each entity concerned shall have a SPOC and a backup, both at administrative level and at cabinet level. They are given all the information and are responsible for the internal flow of information. They have access to an extranet, on which the Task Force gathers useful information. For example, SPOCs are also provided for the federated entities. Work on the preparation of the Belgian Presidency of the Council of the European Union will continue in the coming months. These preparations are the work of both the federal level and the federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u36	Thank you, Prime Minister, for an interesting answer. We will be President of the European Union at a special time. Not only because we will certainly be in an electoral process ourselves, we will see which governments, but we will certainly have elections, but European is the case everywhere. There are European elections in all Member States. As a result, the institutions will be inclined to finalise as many deals as possible at the end of 2023, under the Spanish Presidency. I remember very well what happened last time: phenomenal budget discussions that ran until the day of the elections. Our Presidency may well be a very crucial Presidency, even knowing who is coming after us, Hungary. Secondly, I very much appreciate the overview you are giving, because I believe that there is a form of urgency in it. When I hear the agenda, I notice that in the last month alone there have been five or six meetings on the precise allocation of tasks, so that everyone can come to the table at the relevant moments. That's the point. It is not about political profiling, but about how we can help steer the European agenda as far as possible. This is achieved by ensuring that people with the best expertise are at the table, who can also boast of the right records, in order to be able to switch. Your agenda therefore seems to confirm the urgency for me. That's a nice case. The date of 5 July 2022 is certainly an interesting date. Thirdly, we have already discussed it in the corridors, but I would like to express the point more formally here in the committee meeting. Parliament also has a role to play and to be included in the preparation of the European Presidency. Our party and our group certainly do not want to make this a party political issue. However, we are considering how we can increase Parliament's visibility and impact, so that we are more than just a possible meeting room for a number of conferences. Prime Minister, proposals have been made, which are now being considered and considered by the Legal Service of the Chamber. Mrs Tillieux also takes a look at these proposals, which concern, for example, whether we can temporarily upgrade the federal advisory committee on European affairs, where you come to pre-brief the European summits and debriefs, to a more permanent committee, to ensure that there are additional possibilities in that committee, to indicate what an agenda might be and how to reconnect. We could also leave more ministers to speak. This can of course be done in different fields of expertise, but it might not be bad to have an overarching committee for this. We are happy to put that discussion on the table, but we hope to reach conclusions on this subject in consultation with all the political groups in Parliament so that we can all get on with the European cart. It is good that you do so, but we think it is important that Parliament should also take up its responsibilities in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u37	Prime Minister, my question is about the violence in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) from where you come back. I will allow myself to go a little further than the question as put in writing, because we all know that the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo is again experiencing bloody fighting by rebel groups, including M23, both against the armed forces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and also against MONUSCO's peacekeeping forces. And, for more than twenty-five years, innocent civilian populations have been massacred or displaced. I have four questions for you. The first concerns the aggressors. The armed forces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo state very clearly that the M23 is supported by the Rwandan armed forces. But today we go even further because we hear clearly Minister Lutundula accusing Rwanda of being the main aggressor. The United States Embassy in Kinshasa also tweeted that it was extremely concerned about the reported presence of Rwandan forces in the territory of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, which would amount to a violation of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. In addition, FARDC now directly accuses the Rwandan army of occupying the border town of Bunagana since Monday, 13 June 2022. How does the Belgian government react to this accusation of Rwanda's invasion of the DRC? What information do you have? Are you aware of the presence of these Rwandan forces on Congolese soil? Have you checked these particularly serious reports? If so, how did you react? My second question concerns the search for a peace dialogue and the role of Belgium in working towards a de-escalation. Is the agreement signed between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda under threat today? That seems to be the case. If so, what political solutions does Belgium favour? My third question is what we are focusing on in the fight against impunity. It should be recalled that such violence is not new. This has been going on for twenty-five years, and civilian populations have been massacred. Some argue for a UN special international criminal court, while others argue for a new mapping report. What do you prefer? Finally, my last question concerns the state of siege in the provinces of Ituri and North Kivu for more than a year. What is the timetable and position of your Government, particularly with regard to accusations of intimidation, arbitrary detention and abusive prosecution?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u38	My answer will be quite long, in the sense that Mrs Van Hoof had also asked a question, and I think that, anyway, the subject still lends itself to a fairly long answer. Belgium expressed its views on the situation in the DRC. We condemned this violence, in particular the M23 attacks on FARDC and MONUSCO troops. We called on all parties involved to halt the fighting immediately and de-escalate urgently. Belgium also condemned any incitement to hatred against certain communities. We are very concerned about rapid developments on the ground. We have noted some accusations of Rwanda's possible support for M23. It should be noted that the Rwandan authorities stated in response to these accusations that their country had no interest in destabilizing the DRC and that these accusations of coalition with the M23 were unfounded. That is why, in this context, our country has called on the countries of the region to use existing dispute resolution and joint incident verification mechanisms. Our country also supports the Nairobi process, which demonstrates the interest of the countries of the region in stabilizing eastern DRC and which, through its dual approach, recognizes that there is no purely military support for the Eastern crisis. Belgium supports an integrated approach to the stabilization of the East in which the process of disarmament of mobilizations and community reintegration of former combatants is called upon to play a central role. Together with our partners, we urge that the principles of combating impunity and non-reintegration into the armed forces be respected in order to avoid repeating certain mistakes of the past. However, we note that it is not the voice of the joint and peaceful resolution of disputes that is currently preferred. The attack and the capture of Bunagana this Monday, June 13th have again demonstrated this to us. That is why, during my visit to the DRC last week, I first recalled the right of the Democratic Republic of the Congo to defend the integrity of its territory and to defend its populations against armed groups and any external interference. I also recalled other important messages, namely that logic must remain de-escalation. Only de-escalation, and therefore peace, can be positive for the people of the region. Thirdly, both the DRC and its neighbours must make internal efforts to improve the security situation. Finally, there is a need for real shuttle diplomacy in the region to facilitate contacts. In other words, diplomacy is needed to restore confidence and lead to de-escalation for the benefit of the population. Very important, in view of the messages of hatred circulating in the region vis-à-vis certain communities, it is high time that the authorities called their populations to appease. These messages, we will continue to carry them in our contacts with the various capitals of the region. But nothing will replace direct contacts between the main players. We will also carry these messages on the international scene, particularly in the European Union and the United Nations, where Belgian diplomacy remains very much heard on issues relating to the Great Lakes region. However, the subregion must remain in the driving seat. If further specific support is requested from our country, we will examine it to the extent of our capabilities. Belgium is already supporting the reforms of the DRC's security forces and their professionalization. This is the case with the police, through the EU-funded police reform programme, as well as with FARDC through the recently relaunched bilateral military cooperation. In cooperation with MONUSCO and neighbouring States, the Democratic Republic of the Congo should therefore be required not only to deal more with the armed groups that continue to operate in the East, but also to create more conditions that will diminish their ability to destabilize the region over the long term. The state of siege established in May 2021 in the provinces of Ituri and North Kivu was the subject of a Congolese parliamentary commission of inquiry in August and September last year. This ministerial delegation led by Prime Minister Sama Lukonde recently visited the East for a complementary assessment. It is important that these assessments lead to the implementation of recommendations and the identification of a precise timeline for the end of the state of headquarters. This will be marked by the return of civilian management and parliamentary oversight. The Joint United Nations Office for Human Rights has documented a significant increase in human rights violations related to democratic space in the provinces under siege, a significant part of which was committed by law enforcement officials. It is essential that human rights violations be monitored, that those responsible for these violations be prosecuted and that these arbitrary arrests be stopped. We will continue to raise human rights issues with the Congolese authorities in our bilateral dialogue. Efforts to combat impunity have been made in recent years in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, including in the security services, with a series of convictions of officers. It is, however, a complex process, and one that still requires a lot of effort. In our bilateral discussions with the Congolese authorities, this theme is regularly discussed. We are also raising this issue at multilateral level, such as during the last interactive dialogue on the DRC at the UN Human Rights Council. The establishment of a transitional justice process should help to consolidate this momentum in the fight against impunity and thus constitute one of the necessary milestones for the pacification of eastern DRC. A joint committee to address this issue was set up by President Tshisekedi, but the issue presents significant challenges, both logistically and financially. Belgium and the European Union encourage the Joint Commission in the development of a national strategy and transitional justice in order to define the objectives, methodology and means that the DRC wishes to provide. Belgium is also supporting a project on transitional justice, combating impunity and protection, implemented by the Joint United Nations Office for Human Rights in the DRC. Finally, with regard to the fight against impunity, there is currently no Maping 2 report covering the period after 2003. The Congolese courts are competent to try crimes committed in the territory of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Furthermore, the Democratic Republic of the Congo ratified the Rome Statute in April 2002 and referred to the International Criminal Court in April 2004 the situation prevailing in its territory since 1 July 2002. The ICC may therefore exercise jurisdiction over crimes covered by the Rome Statute committed on the territory of the Democratic Republic of the Congo or by nationals of that State, as from 1 July 2002.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u39	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. It was important to hear the Belgian government's position since the history of the DRC is closely linked to that of Belgium. In addition, in Europe, Belgium, we benefit directly from natural resources such as cobalt and coltan, which are at the centre of tensions and violence in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It has been more than 25 years since the horror and unheard-of violence of the massacres perpetrated by these armed groups, by these rebels, directly affected the civilian population. It is really important to be able to put the fight against impunity at the centre of the political game as a matter of priority, including after 2003, and to be able to talk to the United Nations again about a new mapping report, which would be followed up this time. We will continue to pay close attention to this issue so that Belgium can fully play its role as mediator and peacemaker in the Great Lakes region.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u40	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to put this question to you because there has been a very special and peculiar sequence in the very short term since I, together with my colleague Nabil Boukili, interviewed you about the frequent violations by the State of Israel of international law, the Geneva Convention, the killing of journalists and human rights violations, including in the occupied Palestinian territories. In your reply to the interplay, you were denied the statement that you or the Belgian Government were going to investigate to what extent products from the illegal Israeli colonies could be banned from our country. Some members of the majority parties also congratulated you on this and said that the government is doing a very good job and is taking steps forward. In this respect, we would make progress if it were to be checked against what is in the coalition agreement, according to those colleagues. Very strange, not half a day later, we read in Le Soir that you were actually taking a step back and that you were going to look at everything further within a European framework. So you swallowed your words almost immediately and took a step backwards. Again, as I said last time, that is somewhat in stark contrast to our policy of sanctioning when it comes to other countries in the world. Often, without hesitation or study work, immediate sanctions are imposed, especially when countries concerned are not considered allies. This is in stark contrast to what has been happening in Palestine for more than 75 years. The same article in Le Soir also quotes the Israeli ambassador. He says he's very pleased with that withdrawal. He also talks about the fact that certain parties use this purely as a kind of electoral instrument, in which one wants to gain popularity by labeling Israel as a colonial state and an apartheid state. However, these facts are increasingly confirmed and documented on the ground. Prime Minister, that raises a number of serious questions. From what angle was there apparently pressure on you as a result of your ruling? Is that pressure coming straight from the Israeli embassy or is it coming from within your coalition government? In the latter case, which party or parties then stand up as spokesman for the Israeli apartheid state? Can you clarify what steps this government will take or will not take? The coalition agreement, which is still a Bible that you want to implement carefully, states that concrete counter-measures will be taken. Where are we at now?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u41	Mr De Vuyst, I am now answering your question about my intervention in the Committee on External Relations on 1 June and the problem of products from Israeli settlements. Let me clarify a few things. Firstly, in accordance with the government agreement, the government is taking further steps in bilateral and multilateral differentiation policy towards Israeli settlements. In line with this, we have been working on deepening the differentiation policy. Conclusions were reached on 31 October in an Inter-Kabinette Working Group. These were approved by the vice prime ministers and myself. On 16 November these conclusions were submitted by the Minister for Foreign Affairs to the Committee in the context of the presentation of its policy paper. What you are asking for was indeed discussed at this meeting. In line with these conclusions, the Belgian Government's analysis of an import ban on settlement products takes place within a European framework, given the exclusive competence of the European Commission in the field of trade policy in the EU. We have also taken note of the ongoing European Citizens' Initiative on this issue, which places the issue on the Commission's agenda. Belgium will consult with like-minded EU Member States on any committee proposal that would follow. The Israeli Ambassador is free to comment on the Belgian Government's policy, just as Belgium does not hesitate to publicly condemn Israeli decisions, particularly as regards the continuation of settlement policy. The red line for each ambassador and every country is interference in internal affairs, and that is not the case here. As regards the differentiation measures already taken, a mid-term review meeting was held at the end of May with the various Cabinets concerned, under the direction of Foreign Affairs, which coordinates the policy of differentiation. The FPS Economy and the FPS Finance are most directly involved in the procedures to be revised and the technical efforts to be made. We therefore invite you to submit any technical questions in this connection to the colleagues responsible for these departments.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic817x.u42	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your somewhat predictable answer. It confirms once again that our country will remain on the plain. It refers again to the like-minded states and to a European framework, while our country could take action and not wait for a consensus within the European Union. As far as the ambassador's concerned, what you're saying is true. He may indeed criticise or express his opinion on the policy in the press. I cannot, however, get the impression that, given the short time between that ruling and the subsequent correction, there is a certain affinity or a privileged relationship between our country and Israel. When we compare this incident with the reactions of ambassadors from other countries, who also clarify their position on the situation in their country, we find that there are often cases of blackmail or illegal interference. Some even talk about froid dance le dos. In this case, however, when it comes to Israel, I have the impression that a number of things are being discussed behind the scenes and without any transparency and put into a certain fold. That seems to me to be extremely worrying. I repeat, it's a problem. What does that say about the capacity of our Belgian government to conduct a sovereign foreign policy? You also mentioned the European Commission. At that level, too, the situation is poignant. I reported it last time too. It is Ursula von der Leyen who rightly condemns Russia in a tweet and supports the sanctions, but not much later goes to Israel and declares that the European Union will deepen cooperation links. She has been to the Knesset and has spoken to it, while Israel is still occupying Palestinian territories at the moment. The Supreme Court has recently decided that 1,200 Palestinians will be expelled from their territories. Prime Minister, you do understand that the picture is not coherent and is not consistent. You do realize it's absurd, don't you? I'm sorry to say this, but it's hypocritical. The whole world is bewildered by the way our country and the European Union have to bend over and over again in order not to have to sanction Israel. That is also very damaging to our image. After all, we are always talking about a community of values that we must enforce all over the world. However, once again we see the two dimensions and two weights, the selective application of our so-called values and standards, of which we are once again aware.
