ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u1	Mr President, Minister, I have already questioned you about this aspect of teleworking. As you know, since January 2022, KBC has effectively started the experiment whereby workers are employed on a voluntary basis at home under the status of a homeworker on a Sunday in a call centre. It refers to the interpretation of the labour law whereby telework on Sundays is equal to homework. This will enable us to circumvent the ban on Sunday work and the agreements made at sector level. I don't think a teleworker is a domestic worker. This is also confirmed by collective agreement No. 85 in the NAR's opinions. It clearly states that teleworkers should be treated on an equal footing with employees at the company site. That is all in the implementation of the European framework agreement, which is based on the same principle. It now appears that internal trade union communication is refused by the company. The management states that this is domestic work and that the interpretation of the trade unions remains questionable. Their interpretation would also have been verified by the FOD WASO by their lawyers. This is a dangerous precedent if we leave it that way. Telework will become more structural and then this interpretation transcends the company concerned, with a possible impact on other sectors and companies involved. In the light of collective agreement No. 85 confirm the NAR's opinion that telework cannot be equated with homework? Often there is also a component of communication technology attached to this. A call centre is not like it used to be, it also works with computers, with telephone calls and calls via chat. So that technology is also being used. Will you take any other initiatives to make it clear that telework is a modality of the ordinary contract of employment and cannot therefore be assimilated to ordinary domestic work? If you do, what initiatives will these be?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u2	Mr President, Minister, we have spoken on this subject on a number of occasions. Mr Vanrobaeys has just outlined it well. I'd like to know a few things from you. The regulation that we now know is due to expire at the end of March. Many references have been made here to the consultation of the social partners with a view to achieving a structural settlement. I want to know what's going on with that. What is the reality in the field of work with the current teleworking measures? Is there any further checks? How's that check going? What's the status? During a previous discussion, I made comments on the app and the administrative difficulties involved in registration. I'd like to know if those difficulties have been solved. How's the app going today?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u3	Mr President, Minister, according to the spokesperson for the FPS Employment, since the entry into force of the new telework obligation on 20 November, FPS inspectors have carried out 4,000 checks. In 5,4% of the cases it was found that this obligation had not been complied with. My questions are as follows. How many companies out of 4,000 had asked for a derogation to be able to work in the workplace more than one day a week? Have the inspectors in the establishments where a derogation was granted checked whether it was indeed impossible to telework?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u4	Mr Minister, many things have already been said, but I would also like to ask a few questions on this subject. Mr Minister, telework has been introduced several times since the outbreak of COVID-19 as an instrument in the fight against the further spread of the virus. For many companies, employers, and also employees, for whom telework has been used at most occasionally, this means a major shift in the organization of work. The employers and employees have always tried to adapt to godliness and wealth, but the call for a new current legal framework quickly sounded louder and louder. The question remains as to why such a structural framework does not exist. I believe it is in everyone's best interest that it finally comes. How is it that the social partners have still not managed to deliver an opinion on a permanent structural framework for teleworking, which was promised months ago? This framework, which is extremely important, must, on the one hand, ensure a healthy balance between telework and, on the other hand, encourage people to return to work physically. Those advices were promised a long time ago, but they're still not there. I can ask you where they are, but I really need to ask you how you are going to deal with this, as a structural framework for teleworking is becoming increasingly urgent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, between 2 January 2021 and 2 January 2022, 48,719 employers were specifically checked for compliance with the corona measures in the field of telework. Of these, 3.422 employers, or 7%, were in violation. This led to the drafting of 3.039 warnings, 142 regularization deadlines, 7 discontinuations and 172 pro justitia's. The social inspection services have once again tightened their monitoring methodology following the publication of the Royal Decree of 19 November 2021 in which stricter measures were announced after the fourth wave. The percentage of infringements of mandatory telework shall be 4,4% for the period from the reintroduction on 21 November 2021 to 9 January 2022. During the first mandatory telework period, the average percentage of infringements was 10%. This means that the obligation to telework is generally well followed up. The social inspection services and the AD TWW systematically continue their checks on compliance with the obligation to telework. Any adjustments to enforcement shall be consistent with the decisions of the Consultation Committee. As you know, people whose function allows telework can be present at their workplace at most one day a week. No derogation is possible. It is the employer who determines which functions are compatible with telework or not. The Royal Decree of 28 October 2021 and the subsequent Royal Decrees of Amendment do not provide for the possibility of derogation from these provisions. Therefore, no derogation is granted by the inspectors. Mervouw Vanrobaeys, I can confirm that structural telework is a specific form of homework, using information technology which is not subject to the provisions on homework in the Law of 3 July 1978 on contracts of employment, but to collective agreement No. 85 on telework. As you know, Mrs Muylle, on 7 December 2021 the social partners adopted the temporary collective agreement No. 149 extended until the end of March 2022. In the meantime, discussions remain ongoing with a view to reaching a final and updated regulatory framework. A new meeting is scheduled for 1 February 2022. The social partners know that this is a priority issue for the whole government and that results must be achieved quickly. On the basis of the opinion of the social partners, I will assess which regulatory changes are appropriate. As far as the RSZ registration tool is concerned, it is indeed well used. The social partners' meeting on 1 February 2022 may consider whether an evaluation of the social partners' activities by the RSZ will be held in the discussions. An updated regulatory framework for teleworking takes into account all costs associated with teleworking, in particular energy costs and the costs of creating an ergonomic working environment. In addition, full attention should be paid to psychosocial risks and respect for privacy regulations. I welcome the deconnection rules for federal officials. A private sector regime is provided for in the preliminary draft law on various provisions on work, as agreed at the budget negotiations of October 2021. The preliminary draft budget is currently under way within the Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am relieved to hear that the teleworking under collective agreement No. 85 in the field of structural telework and that it is not subject to the employment contract law and the rules on homework. This makes a huge difference for the workers concerned. This creates less of a precedent in the negotiations on other structural arrangements for teleworking. You also note that the telework obligation is well respected. That's also good for the spread of the virus. The right to deconnect will be there soon. Meanwhile, the teleworkers have been working at home for two years. Many employees work without compensation. Even though there is a discussion on the temporary nature, this is not provided. One in six employees gets a telework allowance, the rest doesn't. I think it is high time teleworkers were compensated for their energy costs and all the additional costs they have at home. We must not lose sight of their mental well-being.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. The social partners have been working on this exercise for a long time. All the elements are on the table. They know which way they want or should go. A meeting will take place on 1 February. You say this is a priority for you. I hope that this will evolve positively and we will be able to move forward from March onwards. That is why it is important that we know the final framework. As far as the registration tool is concerned, the evaluation seems useful to me. I have the impression that the app has hit the background. It is good that this will be discussed at the meeting on 1 February. It will then consider how further evaluation and evolution can be carried out. We will certainly come back to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u8	In the meantime, Minister, I have taken a quick look at the figures you have passed on. In the case of employers, 48 000 checks were carried out and 3,039 infringements detected, 172 of which were fined. For less than 2% of companies, a projustitia was drawn up. We ask that controls and health rules should not be curtailed. Office jobs of course lend themselves to telework, but those who engage in a contact profession are not lucky enough to be able to telework and are therefore likely to be infected. That discussion is going on forever. For that last group, we still believe that the best way to deal with these workers or protect them from contamination is to maintain the income during quarantine, which should encourage workers to stick to it. With the introduction of free self-tests, people can be tested in doubt before going to work. You have reported important news, namely that there will again be important consultations with the social partners on 1 February. We look forward to the results of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In my view, the question is not so much how much energy you still have to invest in controls, since we may have to question the validity of these checks out loud, even though several colleagues still argue for very strict controls. I think you should focus your energy on workable work, a framework for teleworking being an important part of it these days. In my opinion, this should be more than just an expense payment for teleworking. Working conditions in general must be taken into account as much as possible so that workers can work in good conditions. This is not equally self-evident for everyone, so I hope that it will be a broader framework than just a framework for compensation. In addition, I think you should also put energy into the continuity of our economic activities. The current measures threaten to make working impossible for more and more people, which cannot be the intention. As Minister for Economics and for Work, I am counting on you for enforcement, but also for the questioning of various corona measures, so that we can look at them properly, so that we can still work in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u10	Minister, I come back to you on an unfortunate case that dates back to 1997. At the time, questions had been asked a minister about compensation, but the answer had always been that the matter was in the hands of the judiciary and that there was no interference in judicial matters. Today, the case is being tried and the judicial process is over. There is a debt of about 18 million that is blocked by the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations of the Nivelles court. After payment to social security, the balance of this claim is intended for workers. Now that the case is decided, these former workers – if they are still alive – have the right to receive what is theirs. Minister, are you aware of this situation? Why have the former workers of the Clabecq Forges still not seen a euro of their company's debts? Are you planning to meet the workers? If so, when?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u11	I remember the battle that took place as if it were yesterday, it was in the early years of my trade union career. Meanwhile, the bankruptcy of Forges de Clabecq has been behind us for 25 years but 1,800 former employees are still waiting for part of their redundancy compensation. Almost half of them were still blocked in a bank account, as a result of a dispute between the Belgian State and the curators of Forges de Clabecq. I'd like to get the facts straight. In the mid-1990s, when the difficulties became felt, Forges de Clabecq's employees made every effort to keep their factory running. Some continued to maintain the tools while they were no longer paid. These workers have worked for a long time and in difficult working conditions. Many of these people have experienced the devastating effects of asbestos on their own, sometimes to the extent that they died before they reached retirement age. They gave the best of themselves to eventually be fired. As if that were not enough, those same employees have still not received their full redundancy allowance 25 years later. In this social tragedy, workers are once again forgotten. What has the Belgian State done in the meantime to avoid the double or triple punishment of these workers? The State has repaid the banks and taken legal steps to ensure that the workers did not receive the last few remaining millions. By demanding priority in the distribution of money, the State is putting 1,800 families in difficulty. Unfortunately, a final ruling in December 2021 put an end to all hopes of compensation for these workers. What contacts did you have with the former employees of the Forges de Clabecq? What commitments have you made? What concrete steps will you take to ensure that these workers are finally compensated?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u12	Minister, I am not going to be redundant, but this is a 1997 case involving many workers, as we are talking about 1,400 workers, 300 employees, but also 80 executives, all of whom are deprived of severance benefits. We are 20 years later and these workers are still demanding part of their compensation. The curator wanted to allocate EUR 18 million for this purpose, corresponding to the company's assets at the time of closure. In fact, there was a judgment since the Court of Cassation recently ruled that the Belgian State, which took advantage of a claim of EUR 30 million in connection with the recovery of loans granted to the company, was a priority in this case. This decision marks the end of all hope for these workers to recover their compensation by judicial means. Minister, without the work of employees, our businesses and our economy could not function, and you know that as I do. After the difficult experience of bankruptcy, they deserve to receive the sums owed to them. Are there still opportunities to compensate these workers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u13	Madam and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Of course, I have read the judgment of the Court of Cassation, which destroys the judicial hopes of former workers of the Forges de Clabecq as well as those of their families. I fully understand their bitterness, since they still expected to receive the balance of their debts. You know I'm not used to commenting on a court decision. This judgment is based on the rules of priority and distribution between the various creditors of a bankruptcy. This is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice, which is why I was not directly questioned by the unions. However, of course, I remain at their disposal to meet them. Although this case concerns a bankruptcy dating back more than 25 years, it reminds us of the extent to which the Business Closing Fund (FFE) fulfils its role as a safety net so that the victims of a bankruptcy can be repaid completely and as quickly as possible. The FFE intervened in this case, within the limits of the ceilings in force at the time. With regard to contractual compensation, he compensated 2,559 workers for a total amount of 38,631,575 euros. In the case of company supplements, it compensated 1,318 workers for a total amount of EUR 40,942,692. The FFE will continue to monitor the development of this file with the parish office as long as the bankruptcy is not terminated. As I indicated at the moment, I am willing to meet the former workers of the Forges, as well as their representatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased to note that you are prepared to meet these workers. We remember the sad violent drifts that followed the bankruptcy of the Forges, as well as the resulting condemnations. This is not a reason: the law, especially social justice, must reconcile men and institutions. This issue requires an effort to achieve this reconciliation, which only demands to pacify the region of the Centre where I live.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u15	Minister, I hear you want to meet the people in question, but what are you going to tell them? Are you going to say that you're sorry that there's been an arrest? The figures show that the State has received a considerable amount of money and you can therefore do a gesture to support these people. After all, these 1,800 families are not protected at all. Violence has been used during the actions, it is said here. Violence always disturbs me. Anyone who stands up for his children's sandwich is a criminal, but if they put 1,800 families out on the street in two minutes, everyone thinks that's normal. Now, 25 years later, there is still no justice for these workers and the wealthier ones laugh even harder because the profits of all these years they never had to pay off in the wages of those workers. This happens over and over again in the case of bankruptcies in this country: first, the banks are paid out and never the people who have provided these gains, those who have ultimately ensured that these companies can make a profit. That's gotta stop.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, I hear your willingness and willingness to meet with the workers. That's very good. 25 years ago, you weren't here yet – you have to say that. In any event, it is unacceptable for the Belgian State to deprive workers of part of their salary arrears and of their severance pay. For my part, I believe that their social rights should not be relegated to the background of judicial proceedings.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u17	This is a file that goes back a long way in our history. The first forge in Clabecq dates back to 1752.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u18	Minister, mid-December 2021, the Flemish Government decided to introduce the community service for long-term job seekers. This has been conceived as a form of work experience placement. The aim is to increase the activation of long-term job seekers and to strengthen their competences through the performance of socially relevant tasks. The community service can also help to gain the much needed work experience. It is important that the Community service can be imposed as appropriate action on the path to work. If the job seeker refuses this appropriate action, he or she will be sanctioned. Even though in Flanders a decrease in overall unemployment was observed by 16% between November 2020 and November 2021, for people who have been unemployed for more than 2 years, it is only 3%, while the labour market is very tight. The figures for the whole country for the same period are in line. Data from the RVA show that the number of long-term unemployed has remained virtually unchanged. For the whole of Belgium, 161,000 people are involved. The ambition to increase the effectiveness rate to 80% will require initiatives from both federal and regional governments. The activation of long-term job seekers is part of this. Have you been in contact with your colleague responsible for Work in the Flemish Government? If so, what was the outcome of that consultation? The unemployment regulation provides that refusing an appropriate employment may lead to the loss of the benefit. How, in your view, does this relate to the sanction provided for in the case of refusal of the Flemish community service? The high number of long-term job-seekers is unacceptable, bearing in mind the current shortage of labour. What measures will you take at federal level to get people who have been unemployed for more than two years back to the labour market? What is your evaluation of the activation measures of jobseekers in Denmark after your work visit in October 2021? What measures have been developed there, if any, to be applied in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u19	Mrs De Jonge, like you, I have heard that the Flemish Government will oblige job seekers to perform a community service. First of all, I would like to remind you that in our federal state, each entity is free to exercise its powers as it wishes, as long as the principle of federal loyalty is respected. In the context of its autonomy, a region takes the measures it thinks it should take. However, I can assure you that there is no Community service in the federal government's agreement. The Flemish government made its decision without consulting me. That is why I asked my fellow Minister for Work in Flanders, Mrs Crevits, for more information. I wanted to know whether Flanders' implementation of this measure would not exceed its powers, and in particular whether the federal framework on availability and the concept of 'appropriate work' was not called into question, and whether this was not a new form of disguised employment. In addition, I have drawn the attention of Mr Crevits to the risk of abuse and competition for regular workers. According to Mrs Crevits, the community service is part of the existing work experience placement (WES). She assures me that a legal analysis of the powers of both sides has taken place and that the mechanism does not affect federal powers in any way. The federal framework therefore does not need to be adapted, particularly as regards the concept of 'appropriate work'. Mr Crevits also assures me that she will ensure that there is no abuse, for example in the form of a disguised contract of employment, and she is prepared to pass on any irregularity to the RSZ. As far as activation measures are concerned, I should also like to remind you that the monitoring and supervision of jobseekers is now primarily the responsibility of the regions. What kept me from visiting Denmark is that there is a need for a change of attitude in the training of workers throughout their career. That is why the federal government has decided to grant individual training rights to all employees in the private sector. In this context, I intend to encourage all companies to draw up a training plan. Training must become a priority within companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u20	Minister, of course it is the objective in Flanders to stimulate work experience among people who have been unemployed for more than two years. In my opinion, there is a need for a plan to activate people who have been inactive for so long. The lack of a job also involves risks. We must be aware that the person in question is often socially isolated and sometimes finds himself in severe poverty. It is important that threshold lowering measures to activate people are introduced, including in the other regions, naturally within their own competences. Initiatives such as in Flanders really contribute to the activation of these people. I think they're a source of inspiration, too. It is also important for achieving the target for our country for an activity rate of 80%. I look forward to all the measures that are on the table and which have been discussed during the discussion of the policy paper. This should contribute to increasing efficacy. The individual right to training is indeed a very important measure, Minister, which I fully support. I look forward to all the other measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u21	Minister, in view of the success of the zero-long-term unemployed territories in France, the project is now on the agenda of all levels of Belgian power – including the federal level – as a measure to achieve the 80% employment rate target by 2030. Recently, KULeuven conducted a study to assess the costs and benefits of implementing this project at home. The result is very positive: if at the beginning a large sum of 40 500 euros is to be released in full time equivalent, after only five years each euro invested would generate about three euros in profit. It is therefore a success for the state funds but, above all, for the social and professional reintegration of fragile and long-sheltered people. Minister, what is the status of inter-federal discussions on the implementation of this project in our country? Are pilot projects envisaged for the year 2022? Have any avenues been identified to balance the benefits of each level of power?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u22	Minister, the government agreement states: "The government will consult the Länder in a structural manner. It also examines how sub-regional measures or place-based policies can be implemented, with respect for everyone's powers, for example on the tax treatment of overtime or the introduction of territoires zéro chômeur de longue durée." According to the recent studies, it appears that a cooperation agreement between the federal government and the regions concerned is necessary in order to effectively implement this policy. If the Region invests in job creation, it is the federal government that reaps the economic benefits of it. The regions do not have the means to implement this policy on their own. However, there are no resources available to implement this policy at federal level in 2022. What do you intend to do? What can you promise with regard to the development of these areas without long-term unemployment?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u23	Following this fine plea by Mr Colebunders for the further regionalisation of labour market policy, Mrs Cornet now has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u24	Mr. Chair, Minister, organizations have conducted a study to identify the type of economic activity that would be relevant to the establishment of the long-term unemployed zero-territories. While this study is based on Brussels reality, it obviously provides elements for progress on this issue in general throughout the country. One of these is that the system of long-term unemployed zero-territories can be a tool for achieving not only employment goals but also ecological gains. The second element I would like to highlight is that long-term funding is essential, since the benefits of the approach are only felt after several years. As my colleague said, this is a totally profitable investment. According to the study, the importance of developing large structures is added to this. This confirms information already raised by KUL. The federal role in funding will be decisive. Indeed, the Regions are responsible for putting them into employment, but it is the federal government that largely benefits from the positive budgetary consequences. Press reports that you are waiting for a road map from the Brussels Region to move forward on this issue. It is important to take stock with you in the same way that my colleague Farida Tahar did in the Brussels Region, where she interviewed Minister Clerfayt. He said in his response that he could not do without federal funding, that he was in negotiations with the federal government, and that he hoped for a more positive and faster welcome on his part to move forward on this issue. Minister, can you communicate to me the elements that you have already put in place in the framework of the dialogue with the Regions? Where are your contacts, not only with the Walloon Region but also with the Brussels Region? Are you considering a co-operation agreement or other form of co-operation to enable essential co-financing by the federal government?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your questions about the long-term zero-unemployed territories, which are innovative projects that the federal government supports. Mr Colebunders recalled the passage of the government agreement which attests to this and confirms his commitment. I have taken note with interest of the study of the KU Leuven, as I had already seen the study carried out on this problem by Dulbea, the centre dependent on the ULB. I am fully convinced of the added value of long-term unemployed areas. My will, in accordance with the government agreement, is to support zero-unemployed-territories projects. In this sense, I maintain regular contacts with my Walloon and Brussels counterparts who wish to implement this type of project. Wallonia told me that the project is progressing well and that it has been integrated into ESF+ programming. The resources released by Wallonia will therefore be amplified by Europe. On the Brussels side, the Minister for Employment told me that he would send me a note with an inventory in the first quarter of 2022. Of course, this system of territoires zéro chômeur de longue durée will take into account the powers of the different levels and the special laws. These include the Special Financing Act. At the federal level, I asked my colleague the Minister of Finance to analyse how these initiatives can be supported as part of the adjustment of the free zones. It seems to me that the support of the federal government is essential and that it will reap some of the financial benefits, for by putting in place such a measure, the effects will also be felt in the federal government by reducing unemployment spending. It is therefore logical that the federal government should contribute to the establishment of these territories, which are zero long-term unemployed. This is a good example of federalism of cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u26	Minister, thank you for your full answer. The social economy and occupational integration sectors play a major role in the fight against long-term unemployment. This project of long-term unemployed zero-territories (TZCLD) can become an economic alternative where the personal aspirations of job seekers and collective needs can be met. On the other hand, I am positive about your willingness, under the government agreement, to support these TZCLD projects and also that you have different contacts with your counterparts both in the region and in Brussels, but also that Wallonia is moving forward well and quickly. I hope that, for our part, we will follow suit quickly with the Brussels Region. A note will arrive in the first quarter of 2022 from the Brussels minister. So I will not fail to come back to question you on the subject. As you said, the mission is essential and I hope that we will lead to this TZCLD project.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u27	Minister, I am pleased to hear you say that you are in contact with your Brussels and Walloon colleagues, but there is still a part of the country that is also important. It's called Flanders. I do not have the impression that you are negotiating with this at the moment. Do you really want to encourage such a policy? If we do not give real impetus to a positive policy, such as those without long-term unemployment, and at the same time encourage the regions to pursue their own policy on the employment of the unemployed, we will eventually have regions where the right is in charge and can pursue a policy of punishment. I am thinking here of the Flemish Region. This has recently been decided, for example, to impose work of general interest on the long-term unemployed. What I find the most hypocritical of all is that you, Minister, after telling the Regions that they are allowed to conduct their own policies, complain on the social media about the recent Flemish decision on this work of general interest. That's like a snake biting her own tail. That is why we are asking you to promote the promotion policy effectively throughout the country. This is the best way of achieving the 80% employment rate you have set yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear from your philosophy that you fully support the fact that the federal government is contributing. You find this logical and we fully share this analysis. That is why, at the economic level, if I look at what the figures say, I read that the average net cost of returning a Brussels worker to work via the TZCLD experiment varies between 36 000 and 38 000 euros per year, while the annual cost of non-employment varies between 27 000 and 40 000 euros. We know it's an investment that's totally profitable. The answer you make with the free zones does not meet the full need that is established in this study. And, even if the federal government reaps the benefits, I have the impression – but perhaps you have other information to communicate – that the free zones do not meet this need to develop and will not be enough to fund the TZCLD initiatives. I hear you're waiting for a status report by early 2022. I will of course come back and talk to you about this issue in committee, in collaboration with my fellow environmentalists in the Walloon Region and the Brussels-Capital Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u29	Minister, I promised you that we would continue to talk about wage negotiations here. The year has only just begun or the first signs of inequality are already visible. That's not surprising either. Crisis or no crisis, it is a fact that the rich only get richer and much faster than the rest. Worldwide, in 2021 alone, the 10 richest people made 400 billion, as if it were nothing, while there are leaders of multinationals who pay little or no tax in our country. In Belgium, a certain day draws our attention. That is January 10th, the day of the year when a typical CEO of a BEL20 company has already earned as much as an average employee in a whole year. Despite the fact that some people are filling their pockets, workers continue to lose purchasing power, either because of the direct consequences of the crisis such as the loss of income from quarantine or because of the rise in the price of certain basic goods such as energy. Minister, like everyone else, you may have good intentions. What are your intentions for 2022 with regard to wage increases? What new crisis regime will you introduce to support the workers affected by the pandemic? You stated in mid 2021, when negotiations between the social partners on the wage margin were stalled, that it was necessary to prepare for the next ipa. What will you do this year to prepare the next ipa?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u30	Mr Colebunders, two weeks ago Oxfam published the new Inequality Kills report, which once again proves that inequalities have increased during this pandemic. Oxfam is right, inequality is a political choice. That is why my party is in this government, to make a difference with concrete measures and to tackle inequalities at all levels. For us, for example, the excess profits from energy suppliers must be returned to the users. That's under study. We have invested in a health care that is accessible to everyone. We take steps to give women as many opportunities as men. We invest in strengthening social dialogue. As you know, temporary unemployment, which means that people do not lose their jobs, has been extended. Unemployment benefits were raised again on 1 January 2022 and the minimum wage increases on 1 April 2022. There was a new tax on securities accounts, the securities tax, and so on. Wage negotiations have a biennial rhythm. The current period is from 2021 to 2022, the next period for negotiations runs from 2023 to 2024. Meanwhile, wages continue to rise thanks to the automatic indexation of wages and benefits. In addition, the government intends to give social dialogue as much opportunities as possible and to promote agreements between the social partners. With regard to the next Ipa negotiations, I have said this before. Although the subject may seem premature, we will ensure that the discussions can take place in full serenity and do not intervene at this stage is also a guarantee, I believe.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u31	You want to strengthen social dialogue. You will have to strengthen a great deal there. The side you chose last time by pushing the trade unions down the throat of 0.4% is not a strengthening of social dialogue, it is rather a monologue. The next ipa is for next year. So you should be working hard to put an end to the 1996 law that freezes wages. I understand that the government agreement does not provide for this, but in the meantime the financial situation of many households has deteriorated considerably. All prices go up, not only for gas, electricity, fuel oil, fuels and foodstuffs, but also for wheat and insurance premiums, despite the promises made by your socialist colleague in the Walloon region. In addition, the trade unions have been mobilising for several months. They have filed a petition on this subject. We really support them in their efforts. What do we see happening at the same time? The rich minority is doing very well. I am thinking in particular of the BEL20 shareholders, who raked EUR 6 billion in the middle of the corona crisis. It won't stop. According to recent press releases, dividends will only increase this year, again for that particular group. In this context, therefore, we ask you to address your colleagues from Vivaldi and finally to voice the voice of a socialist. As you know, you can always count on our support to put an end to this wage freeze.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u32	Minister, in November 2019, a large so-called flash control operation, conducted on a sample of 89 because wash had revealed that 53% of these companies did not comply with the law. These violations concerned mainly the lack of registration in the Dimona, but also, for example, manipulated working hours or the presence of foreign workers without a work permit. The press regularly echoes these working conditions. At the end of September it was in Namurois that the case of a boss convicted for the second time in a few years was mentioned and collected almost all the typical offences. Based on the information I have from some CPAS – starting with the one where I myself serve as an advisor – my feeling is that the situation has not improved significantly since 2019. This, however, affects not only the fundamental rights of employees who often work in extreme conditions, but also the interests of all those who carry out this activity properly and who, like all the self-employed, leave a difficult period. Minister, according to the information in your possession, how have things evolved in the sector? Are there figures for the 2020 business periods? How many companies are represented? What leads could help us to better identify, and more quickly, fraudsters?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u33	Madam Member, the action plan to combat social fraud 2021 has provided for a minimum of 200 checks in sectors at risk via the borough cells. We note that the infringement rate remains high: 42 % of positive investigations in 2019, with a finding of infringement, 64 % in 2020 and 55 % in 2021. In short, the result of one in two surveys is unfavourable. Infringements most often found relate to undeclared work in the broad sense: workers have not been the subject of a Dimona declaration; the rules of part-time work have not been complied with and/or workers do not have a work permit. I propose that you pass on to the secretariat of the committee a detailed table, including the number of checks in the car wash and garage sector. In this way, I will spare you a tedious reading of the encrypted data. In 2020, the number of controls decreased slightly due to the mandatory closure of the sector due to measures taken to combat covid-19. The figures are therefore somewhat different and need to be examined on the basis of this particular element of the closure of the sector. In order to better tackle the problem of the car wash sector, SIRS is working on a specific form for car washes as part of the point of contact for fair competition. As a result, complaints can be described more precisely, which will make it possible to organise the resulting controls and investigations even more effectively. The car wash form will cover successive occasions, the existence of other activities such as a store or garage and the different working conditions of the staff. Finally, the method of payment is also discussed where there may be an indication of possible social fraud, for example the payment of wages, wholly or partly in black, in connection, of course, with the tax aspect. These are the various elements of the answer that I could give you today. They will be supplemented by the various statistical data which will be transmitted via the secretariat of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u34	Minister, thank you. This question dates back to November 2021 and the time that has elapsed has only strengthened in my country the feeling that questions still arise in this sector. That is, in any case, what goes back on the ground in the exercise of my mandate. I thank you for the many clarifications that have been made; I will not fail to analyse the statistics and the reports before I return to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u35	Mr President, Minister, for many years, a particular form of network marketing has been developing in our country and internationally: multilevel marketing or, in good French, multi-level selling, sometimes abbreviated in MLM. What is the principle? An experienced seller sponsors other sellers to create a team. He accompanies them to, in the end, have a percentage on their sales. The emergence of social networks has contributed to increasing digital variants of these methods. They are particularly popular on Facebook and Instagram. Today we have to see a number of drifts. This is the case when the MLM deviates to the pure and simple pyramidal sale, which usually ends with an exit scam, i.e. the initiators withdraw their logs and keep the accumulated amounts. Credules, the victims, at the other end of the chain, then have only their eyes to cry. You will recognize that we are far from the "Tupperware meetings" of the early MLM. While these practices are, of course, illegal, the traditional multi-level digital sale has also been adopted by a wide range of companies with street gables and raises no less questions as to the rights of the workers involved. So, Minister, these are the questions I would like to ask you. Does the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation have statistics on the number of persons engaged in these activities in Belgium? What is the status of recruiters and sellers? What are their rights? Is there any support for those who have been trapped in these malicious forms of MLM?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u36	Ms Bonaventure, the SPF Emploi does not have specific statistics on the number of people active as sellers or sellers in multi-level sales. The status of self-employed or salaried sellers will have to be determined according to the general criteria of the Labour Relations Act, in this case Articles 331 et seq. of the Programme Law of 27 December 2006. Only when sufficient evidence to establish an authority relationship is present in practice will the recruiter be considered an employer and the seller be considered an employee. If this is not the case, sellers will have the status of independent seller. With regard to protection against abusive sales practices, it is more a matter of commercial law and consumer protection. Be aware that any person, as a consumer, who is the victim of unfair advertising and practices has the opportunity to report it and file a complaint via the SPF Economy website, which has a special section "Advertising and Unfair Practices". As regards possible infringements of social legislation, a complaint may always be lodged with the various social inspection services concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u37	Thank you, Minister. By its confinement and its socio-economic consequences, the health crisis has more than likely amplified the phenomenon: many citizens blocked at home, sometimes in temporary unemployment, abandoning themselves to the sirens of what they perceived as an easy way to earn money. As always, it is people already in precarious situations who are the first victims. Therefore, thank you for this information, Minister. I'll read and analyze your answer in more detail. From this point on, I will be able to see if there is no need to further investigate the problems posed by these marketing methods in order, perhaps, to help remedy them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u38	Mr President, Minister, the question has already been partially answered, as Mr Anseeeuw had an interplay in last week's plenary session. My question had remained on the agenda of the previous committee, so it was not included in the plenary session either. The problem is now well known. My question is in line with what Mr Anseeeuw asked last week. You organised an employment conference. I believe that we have had a good substantive debate here on your policy paper and the budget, which covered a great deal, including asymmetric policies, the activation of the temporary unemployed, labour mobility and the exemption of three months of unemployment, the lead to bottleneck occupations, where we can also combine three months of unemployment and so on. I also saw your answer on the interfederal platform that is under way, but there is more. During the budget negotiations we also discussed the four-day working week and the flexibility in this area, the transition routes, the activation of the redundancy payment Article 39b or the pilot projects in e-commerce. These are all matters that we discussed during the budget negotiations. As Minister of Work, you can regulate quite a lot through royal decisions, but I suspect that there are a number of things that have to be done through legislation and that there may also be various provisions. That is why I would have liked to know where you stand with regard to the implementation of your plans regarding the cutback, which we all presumably endorse.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u39	Mr President, Mrs Muylle, the laws and regulations implementing this plan relating to the problem professions are currently being discussed within the government. Once an agreement has been reached, which I hope will be the case in the coming days, the plans will be forwarded to the social partners. Hopefully we will be able to start the debates in this committee very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u40	Minister, I will read your answer together with the answer given to Mr Anseeeuw last week. You say that the plan will be sent to the social partners as soon as there is an agreement within the government, but I hope it will also be sent to the Council of State. After all, there is still a second reading of various provisions of the law. Then it is possible already March or April before the plan lands here. I'm a little worried about you, though. I come from the same province as Mr Anseuw, where there is a real demand for labour! I've been in the business for so many years now, and I've never known it so much. Today we are talking about emergency plans, but today we have to work with emergency plans in the service sector because there are no workers, and that is not even corona-related. That's how bad it is. I'll keep following up on this. The need is very great. I therefore hope that there will be a higher acceleration and that a solution will be found quickly, even here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u41	As you can see, Minister, in West Flanders too, we are drawing the same line.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u42	Minister, last September, the press reported on the delays in obtaining a telephone appointment from the Auxiliary Fund for the Payment of Unemployment Benefits (CAPAC). A minimum of 10 days were required, which already made it difficult for many applicants, some of whom were obliged to apply to the CPAS. If I believe the recent evidence from the field, things seem to have improved little. On the contrary, for calls at the beginning of January, telephone contact is usually fixed in February. I assume that the explanation lies in the demands for temporary unemployment due to the pandemic context, particularly those for force majeure following a child's 40th birthday or the closure of his or her school. In this case, it is to be feared that the situation will become even more pronounced in the current context of the rise of the omicron wave, and also for the other payment agencies. I would also point out that these requests must be made within two months of the beginning of temporary unemployment. Do you have an estimate of the share of files that cannot currently be processed within a reasonable time? In the circumstances, will the two-month deadline be taken into account? How can we support CAPAC and other payment agencies in the weeks, and perhaps in the months ahead? Is a plan developed in connection with the omicron wave?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Bonaventure, for your question. Unfortunately, I do not have a projection of the number of files that could not currently be processed within a reasonable time, but I can assure you that CAPAC's public service missions are being carried out on an ongoing basis, with the desire to be able to make payments over time. I can assure you that the vast majority of allowances are paid on time. This is, of course, necessary for those who rely and need to rely on these allowances. As you mentioned, the delays are often due to the type of unemployment and the complexity of the files, the legal payment deadlines, and the need to have complete files. I can also assure you that CAPAC is putting in place a comprehensive management of delays through mutual assistance between the various offices and that it has sufficient human resources. Of course, CAPAC – like other payment agencies – is not immune from an influx of applications related to the omicron variant. As you know, current regulations and existing procedures determine the processing and payment times for files. As you also know, the simplified procedure for the payment of temporary unemployment benefits is still applicable until the end of March 2022. It will, of course, help CAPAC to process cases as quickly as possible. In view of the situation, and given the needs, as we know, additional resources have been and remain necessary. They are designed to ensure continuity of service and the well-being of the officers who perform the mission. On several occasions, we have ensured that CAPAC is given additional means to ensure that claims and claims for payment of allowances are dealt with in a timely manner. I will, of course, continue to pay attention to the fact that this is the case in the coming days and weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This reminder of the deadline will probably reassure the many people involved, who are all the more concerned because CAPAC had obtained staff reinforcements, as you recalled, in order to deal with this crisis. Obviously, that is not enough. Let us not forget that the other payment agencies, i.e. the unions, have the same difficulties. Finally, a very large number of our fellow citizens are affected. We all hope that this crisis will soon be behind us, but in the meantime we must indeed respond to this problem, as you have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u45	Minister, at the end of 2021, the Minister for Social Affairs already took several concrete steps, such as the introduction of back-to-work coordinators and a very limited framework for corporate accountability. Of employers, only 0.9 % will be checked for their excess number of long-term ill workers. The Minister for Social Affairs minimizes the sanctioning nature of the measures concerning the excess number of long-term sick. He refers to some sanction mechanisms under your jurisdiction: the sanctions related to the reasonable adjustments to Article 4, 12° of the anti-discrimination law of 10 May 2007, the sanctions applicable to infringements of the rules on the prevention of psychosocial risks at work in Articles 119 and 122, 5° and sanctions applicable to other infringements of the law of 4 August 1996 on well-being at work and the codex on well-being at work. Can you indicate from each of the sanction mechanisms whether they have been applied regularly during 2019, 2020 and 2021? If not, how come? Does the social inspection give priority to monitoring such infringements? How many social inspectors are currently deployed to actively detect such infringements? Do you intend to strengthen such controls? I also have a question about the reform of the reintegration pathways. At the end of last year, the Court of Auditors published an audit on the effectiveness, shortcomings and evaluability of the reintegration pathways for long-term patients. As Minister of Work, you are responsible for the so-called WASO pathway and the audit is very critical of these routes. The criticism not only refers to the so-called discharge machine, but goes on. For example, in the WASO sections there is a limited higher outflow to work, but also a much higher outflow to unemployment. In short, the trajectories are not working properly. Together with your colleague from Social Affairs, you already responded in writing to the audit. However, I have a few more questions. How will you ensure that the WASO trajectories lead to more adapted work with your own employer? Which steps are you taking and against when? Will the government also impose sanctions on the WASO routes for the long-term sick? How do you see the wider support of the occupational doctors, which is mentioned in the answer to the Court of Auditors? How and against when do you plan to organize that support? The routes are difficult to evaluate due to a lack of information. In your answer to the Court of Auditors, you say you will bet on more and more detailed monitoring. What exactly are you going to do about that? Unemployment benefit is low and degressive. What is your opinion on the outflow from the WASO pathways to unemployment? What will you do to stop that outflow?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u46	Mr Colebunders, compliance with the provisions of the Codex on well-being at work on the reintegration path is not systematically monitored by the social inspectors. Since the start of the corona crisis, priority has been given to systematic monitoring of compliance with the corona measures at the workplace. However, if an employee receives an unfavourable response, he or she may appeal to the doctor-social inspector responsible for monitoring the well-being at work. The doctor-social inspector must then call on the prevention adviser, occupational physician and the employee's doctor for consultation. The social inspector can also call the employee to hear him. During the consultation, the three doctors take a majority decision. In the absence of the treating doctor or the occupational physician or in the absence of agreement between the doctors present, the doctor/social inspector shall decide for himself. In 2019, 149 appeals were lodged, 131 times in 2020 and 186 times in 2021, against the decision of the prevention advisor-work doctor. The accounting system does not allow a breakdown of the figures. However, on the basis of a manual count in the individual files for the period 2017-2019, it has been found that about half of the professions relate to reintegration. In addition, eight additional inspectors are recruited to monitor well-being at work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u47	When it comes to responding to employers, you have at least as much to say as your colleague responsible for social affairs. Your colleague also likes to refer to you and your powers, but for the time being I do not see and hear very much from you. Moreover, our question shows that the sanctions for which you are competent are practically not being applied. Actually, you're confirming that here, too. When it comes to the social inspection checks, I miss a real plan to do better. We want more control and more pressure on employers to provide workable and adapted work. First of all, there's a lot more recruitment than you've announced in all the provinces. The figures speak for themselves. As far as the reintegration pathways for workers are concerned, one thing is clear to me: activation is failing. After seven quarters or a year and seven months, about a third of the beneficiaries are at work. That's far too little. One must ensure that anyone who wants to work can work. But to do so, you must dare to place the employers on their responsibilities. They just don't provide adapted work. I have weekly contact with trade union representatives, including in large companies. It is becoming increasingly difficult to place such workers because there is no goodwill. Then it's never gonna work. It is good to hear you confirm that there will be no sanctions on the routes for workers, but why does Minister Vandenbroucke introduce them? Isn't that discrimination against one sick person against another, just on the basis of their status? The social partners advocate voluntary action, just like the PVDA-PTB. I hope that you will come to your senses and remove all sanctions for the sick from all routes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u48	In recent months, the new plans for the reintegration of the long-term ill have already been discussed in detail. Your colleague from Social Affairs has already taken several concrete steps, such as the introduction of the return-to-work coordinators and the introduction of a very limited framework for corporate accountability. You yourself are responsible for reforming the termination of the contract of employment due to medical force majeure. Until today, it is linked to the reintegration pathways. The trade unions and the Court of Auditors quite rightly refer to this arrangement as a discharge machine. In your 2022 policy paper, you indicated that you will reform the procedure. In a recent answer to written question No. 509 indicated that the federal government is not requesting any data on the nature of the redundancies. You indicated that you would keep it that way, so as not to cause any administrative inconvenience to employers. I would like to ask the following questions. When are you coming up with a bill that disconnects the dismissal for medical reasons from the reintegration routes? The new procedure could start from 9 months. How long will it last? How does your new procedure guarantee that the decoupling will lead to fewer redundancies? What are your thoughts on the matter? How will you monitor an excessive number of such redundancies? Or don't you want to do that, so as not to cause the employers any administrative inconvenience?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u49	Mr Colebunders, we will indeed decouple the reintegration process to support employers and employees when returning to the company from the procedure for dismissal due to medical force majeure. A new, separate procedure will therefore be developed which will only be able to be started when an employee is disabled for at least 9 months. The aim is to encourage all employers and employees to engage in dialogue. We want to give every opportunity to make it possible for the employee to get back to work with the employer. The duration of the procedure will depend on the specific circumstances in each individual situation. A preliminary draft law incorporating the new procedure was submitted to the National Labour Council and I asked the social partners to give me their opinion by the end of February at the latest. By decoupling the new reintegration path from the new medical force majeure procedure, we ensure that the reintegration pathways for which they are intended are actually used, the reintegration of workers after a period of illness at their own workplace, with or without appropriate work. Prevention services will be asked to keep accurate statistics on both the new reintegration pathways and the medical procedures of force majeure, with the company doctors playing a crucial role. In this way we will have a clear picture of the number of routes and, if necessary, we will be able to adapt the policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u50	Minister, I see that you want to do something about it, but until today, people in reintegration paths are still being dismissed. That needs to be changed as soon as possible. There's a hurry. It is a pity that this cannot go any faster under your policy. How can we pursue a policy when we do not know what is happening on the ground? You say that you will involve certain actors and that you will be in contact with the social partners, but in the end the Court of Auditors is also suing the lack of figures. However, you refuse to remind the employers themselves of their responsibility and ask them to simply fill out a form explaining why they were fired. There are two sizes and two weights: if sick people do not complete their questionnaire, they may lose part of their benefit, but for the other side they do not. Honestly, I'm not reassured. I want guarantees that a new procedure will not have new loopholes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u51	Mr President, Minister, on the occasion of the publication in November of the annual report of the Higher Employment Council (ESC), the main subject of which was continuing training, Vice-President Steven Vanackere warned of the risk that digitisation posed to employment in our country, estimated at 14% the number of jobs that are likely to disappear. In addition, 29% of positions are associated with – and I repeat Mr Vanackere's words – "a risk ranging from 50% to 70%, involving major changes in content and tasks". Of course, as confirmed by the SSC, this will first impact workers in lower-skilled jobs. This situation makes it all the more worrying the findings of this study in the field of continuing training, among which the fact that 44% of employees do not consider it useful to train themselves in the context of their current employment. The overall average is now three days of training per year. Minister, you have already taken steps to address this issue. I am thinking in particular of the establishment of an account by 2024 and therefore of an individual right to training and the granting of five days a year. What analysis do you make of these new data? Could you provide an update on the next steps leading to the completion of this project? How will the integration of the conclusions of the SSC, in particular as regards the consequences of digitisation, be done? Above all, what is the answer to the challenge of the lack of desire for continuing training that seems to be perceived by a large number of workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u52	Minister, in November, the High Council for Employment published an interesting report on the importance of continuing training for workers, which you yourself argued for earlier today in this committee. The Council underlines the importance of lifelong learning, for the simple reason that the nature of the jobs is changing more and more rapidly and thus also the necessary competences for those jobs. The good news from the Council is that 84 percent of our companies are committed to the training of employees. The downside of the coin is that it is too often too limited in terms of hours. What should also concern us is that workers are still too little convinced of lifelong learning. In Belgium, about 40% of employees would need new competences to stay at work or retrain themselves. At the same time, 4 adults in 10 do not want to participate in continuing training. Only half of the employees consider it very important to be trained to continue to carry out the current job. Even more striking, especially in view of the challenges we face, is that the number of employees who consider it important or very important to receive training to be able to perform another job is among the lowest in Europe. The figures are 43% and only 13% respectively. However, better trained workers are much more productive and therefore more employable, reducing their risk of unemployment or inactivity. So the Council is right to say that targeting certain under-represented groups is all the more important, as their employability is most at risk. My questions on this are as follows. What do you think are the causes of the fact that too many actors in our labour market are still under-spending on lifelong learning? What measures will you take to make lifelong learning the norm for all workers? What is the timing of these measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u53	Mrs Bonaventure, Mr Anseeuw, the need and usefulness of continuing training are still insufficiently perceived. According to the results of adult surveys, only half (54%) of workers consider training very important for their current job, which is a relatively low score compared to the European average. Even more challenging in view of the challenges ahead, the percentage of those who consider training for another job to be important or very important is 56%; this rate is one of the lowest at European level. This could be explained by the fact that workers less perceive the need to train for a job different from the one they currently hold. Another reason for this low motivation is that the benefits of training for workers appear to be relatively limited in terms of career progression and income growth. Practical barriers are also mentioned as a barrier to participation in training. Workers often mention lack of time or flexibility in working hours. Studies show that training has a positive impact on the performance of enterprises. Investment in training wages in general for employers. Incentives seem to be less important in companies with high staff turnover or where skilled workers are likely to leave the company quickly. They are more important when the company has difficulty recruiting qualified workers and training existing staff. A shortage of labour is often a shortage of skills. The training of workers is more than ever an essential element of employment policy. This is reflected in the implementation of complementary projects such as the individual training account, in consultation between the federal government, the Länder and the social partners, and the introduction of a genuine individual right to training of five days a year from 2024 onwards. This real individual right to training will be reflected in the Act on various provisions on employment which is under discussion within the Government and which will shortly be submitted to the National Labour Council for its opinion. The will is to return to you as soon as possible. Various federal governments are also working together to develop the individual training account, in close cooperation with my Cabinet. The envisaged horizon is an implementation by June 2024. Of course, these projects, in my view, are essential to raising the employment rate to which the government has committed itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u54	Minister, digitization is a challenge in a wide variety of areas. The world of work does not escape. Training policies must be part of the response. The measures you are working on will help to move forward in this direction. On the more psychological aspect that I mentioned in my last question, it should normally also be such as to bring a number of workers on the road to training. You recalled the numbers. I mentioned the proportion of employees who do not consider it useful to train in their current job. But the figures are even higher when it comes to considering training for another function. As you said, it is 43% who think this is important and only 13% very important. As I said, this is probably where the real challenge lies: to create envy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u55	Minister, we share the analysis that the competences often demanded on the labour market cannot be offered all too often. This mismatch needs to be resolved, including through lifelong learning. Everyone must be aware that this should be the self-evident fact. Mrs Bonaventure's reading of the report suggesting that automation and digitisation would be a risk to employment is not correct. Not anticipating new evolutions is the risk. That's a choice we make ourselves. You have mentioned a number of elements that would play a role in the challenge we face to convince everyone to really change that mentality about lifelong learning. The measure you put forward is the individual right to training. Will that do? It's not because someone gets the right that that person will do the same. The report also shows that only half of the workers see the usefulness of this additional training. We can give all the rights to the people, but if they are not interested, of course we are still as far away. The individual right to training can be a piece of the solution. Everything will, of course, still stand or fall with the way in which that right is concretely shaped, how it can be implemented. I look forward very much to that, but that will not be enough to bring about the much-needed mentality of employers and employees, to prepare us effectively not only for the challenges of the future, but also the challenges that are already facing us in this area today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u56	Mr President, Minister, we have all seen the Court of Auditors' report on accidents at work, which was rather scorching. Was it surprising, too? I don't think so. The figures are increasing incredibly strongly and you have also mentioned in your policy paper that adjustments need to be made and that there should be a debate on them. Since 2009, companies can be placed on their responsibilities, but that system fails. Not only are small businesses sanctioned. Moreover, a possible fine cannot be enforced so that these companies often escape the dance. Moreover, we are now in a period of many long-term sick people, as has been mentioned in previous debates. So something must change about these rising figures. As a result of the policy statement, I have said that since 1985 the number of refusals by insurance companies to recognise accidents at work has risen exponentially. Insurance undertakings which refuse to recognise an accident as an accident at work must report this to Fedris. Fedris investigates only 15% of these accidents. Of these, in 10% of cases, there appears to be sufficient reason to recognise the accident at work. That means you have 1,800 victims on an annual basis who are wrongly denied recognition. This is one of many problems, but it shows that action needs to be taken. I've seen in the press that you want an action plan. What exactly do you want to do in that? What's the timing? How do you do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u57	I have also put a question on this, Minister. It concerns the Court of Auditors' report, published in January 2022. Mr Muylle called it a "scoring" report and she is not far off. The main criticism is that this problem has not been sufficiently taken into account by Fedris in recent years. One underlying problem is that the social partners have not given a clear opinion on how to deal with this issue for more than five years. By the way, that is also a pain in many other files. A few of them have already passed the review today. I would just like to quote the report: "Fedris has been waiting for a final position from both ministers and workers' and employers' organisations within its management committee since 2016. According to Fedris, the social partners are currently in favour of developing a general prevention tool that could be an alternative to the initial project of the premium differentiation. The social partners will continue to develop this alternative. This objective will once again be the subject of a KPI in the next governance agreement 2022-2024." Your government's agreement does not address this issue either. On the website of Fedris, the last published management agreement is that for the period 2016-2018, with an addendum for 2019-2020. So we remain uncertain about the policies Fedris will follow now and in the coming years on the prevention of accidents at work. Following this report by the Court of Auditors, will you ask the social partners to give an urgent opinion on this dossier? Given the importance of this issue for the management agreement Fedris 2022-2024, will you give a clear timing? What is the state of play with regard to the announced management agreement? Is this problem addressed in the provisional version of Fedris' management agreement? If so, in what way?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u58	Mr President, Minister, the public authorities are failing in terms of sanctions for accidents at work. In practice, according to the Court of Auditors, there is little in the house of these sanctions in the form of additional preventive contributions. At the beginning of this year, only 89 companies paid the contributions. The big companies, in particular, are getting the hang of it. It is doubtful that the contribution of such a small number of companies will contribute to reducing the number of accidents at work. The reason for the system's existence is, according to the report, even called into question and we should not underestimate it. At least every week, someone leaves for work without ever coming back. Every day there are dozens of workers involved in a serious accident at work. The Court of Auditors' report touches on a number of points in which we have serious questions. Two hundred worst performing companies are selected. This is 0.1% of the number of companies in Belgium employing staff. Why is that so low? Can this be extended? If so, what do you think is a desirable figure? How is it that large companies hardly appear in this selection? However, half of the accidents at work occur there. Why is the broadcasting sector and port work excluded from this system? Yesterday, a 26-year-old young man lost his leg and part of his pelvis in the harbor. What do we tell these people over and over again? The port and broadcasting sector are two major risk sectors with many serious accidents at work. Only 62.2% of the selected companies paid the additional prevention contribution. Why is that? You are responding together with Mr Vandenbroucke with an action plan. How should that look effective?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u59	Mr President, safety and well-being at work are a priority in my policy. We must work for no less than a zero strategy for accidents at work, as set out in the European Strategic Framework for Safety and Health at Work 2021-2027. Following the Court of Auditors' report on industrial accidents, I immediately took the initiative to set up a working group together with the Minister for Social Affairs. In this working group are representatives of the Policy Cells Work and Social Affairs, the federal administration concerned, Fedris and the FOD WASO. An action plan was drawn up within this working group, which will be followed up further. For the action points listed below, the FOD WASO takes the lead. Firstly, a random list of companies with an increased risk is subject to increased annual supervision. Secondly, serious accidents at work on posted workers are identified, in particular on temporary or mobile construction sites, for which the General Directorate for Welfare Supervision has carried out an investigation, with a view to formulating preventive measures and to preventing similar accidents in the future. Thirdly, objections are being examined against the flat-rate contribution for increased risk from companies which have taken sufficient measures to prevent accidents. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no................................................................................................................................................................................... Fourthly, better approximation of the law on accidents at work and the regulation on well-being in relation to accidents at work. Finally, the implementation of a functional analysis in the framework of the establishment of an electronic platform for the digital transmission of detailed accident reports. For the action points in the plan for which Fedris has been designated, I refer to the Minister for Social Affairs, Frank Vandenbroucke. Account will also be taken of the conclusion of the Court of Auditors on the reintegration pathways and the results of the study of the KU Leuven and the ULB, at the request of the FOD WASO, on the impact of the amended regulation. The response of companies with a high incidence of disease falls within the competence of the Minister for Social Affairs, Frank Vandenbroucke. The question concerning the refusal of accidents at work by insurance undertakings also falls within the competence of Mr Vandenbroucke.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u60	Minister, I fully understand that this is a shared competence. It is also a good thing that the working group has responded quickly, that there is a rapid transition and that initiatives are being taken. I hope that a specific plan has been drawn up and that it will be followed carefully. I believe, however, that the problem is broader than that contained in the Court of Auditors' report. I said this in the course of the discussion of the policy paper. Perhaps Parliament can also play a role in this, Mr President. This is part of a global debate on accidents at work. I have also said that there is currently insufficient control over refusals. We have also had a discussion about interim work and accidents at work, where there are still many problems. In the case of cohabitants, compensation is often not granted today if the partner is a victim. This often has to do with the way of living together and what is in the social contract. The fact that there is not enough information available or that the victim does not receive a copy of his report is also a well-known problem. These are all things that cause the figures to rise and show that a global approach from the Department of Work is appropriate. I would therefore like to have a global debate on this. That is a first step for me. As I have said, I will also inform the President that I believe that Parliament can play a role in this, and the government can strengthen it in order to take action.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u61	Minister, I do not think that timing is unimportant here, but we are not sure about that. You have explained a number of measures within the framework of the newly established working group. I have reservations about that. This is the same working group in which the Social Affairs policy cells also sit. I regret that only part of the work of that working party is highlighted here and that we should, for the rest, address the other minister. I assume you're both represented there on behalf of the government. So you could have discussed all the activities of that working group here today. The fact that you divide things up into boxes does not facilitate the debate, quite the contrary. It's something very important. Mr Colebunders has just referred to a poignant example. So I'm a little concerned about timing, but when I hear the term 'working group' on top of that, I'm even more concerned. There is often a lot of talk, but little work done. So I am holding on to my heart, because this problem must be tackled with both hands. There is also a hurry because Fedris has been waiting for advice since 2016. You did not even answer the question I asked you in that connection. I'm sure we'll come back to it in great detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u62	Mr Minister, we know how many accidents occur every year, what are the risk sectors, that most accidents occur in companies with more than 200 employees, that the ports belong to the most dangerous yards in the country, and that temporary workers and posted workers are much more vulnerable than other workers. It is therefore absolutely necessary to improve the alignment of this sanction mechanism, which is not really there, so that there are consequences for companies that put their employees at risk. There is a need for greater selection, with proportional representation of large companies, ports and the broadcasting sector. Moreover, these figures are really the tip of the iceberg. Every trade union representative knows that there is pressure from employers not to report accidents at work. I could list a series of companies. Moreover, employers are more concerned about their insurance premiums than about the additional prevention contribution of the public authorities. There are many examples, Minister, I can present them to you. Believe it or not, I've heard of an employee who broke his hand at work, neither the employer nor the occupational physician found him unfit for work. That person sat on a garbage can with a broken hand for the rest of his day. This is no exception. Any union delegate will be able to tell you such stories. I would also like to express my support for prevention, the strengthening of the powers and participation of the committees on prevention and protection at work, especially in smaller companies, where many strange things are happening. So there is still a lot of work to be done, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u63	Minister, after the differences of opinion between the social partners on Monday 17 January on the possible flexibility measures relating to the omikron variant, you gave them a week to reach an agreement. On Friday, the Group of Ten reached agreement on the new flexibility measures without the ADVV. Do you intend to introduce these measures? If so, which one? How do you respond to those trade unionists who oppose further flexibility measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u64	Mr Minister, my colleague has outlined the situation well, but my question is slightly different. Indeed, the situation is that today three out of every four companies indicate that they feel a heavy impact of staff loss, especially on their production activities. In this sense, Friday's agreement did not come too early. The employers are crying out for a fairly quick implementation. They're asking where your emergency KB is. I see that your Flemish colleague also wants to use students today during their teaching-free weeks, now that the exams are coming to an end, and is looking at how flexibility is possible in extending the hours of student work. So I would have liked to hear from you when this emergency KB is coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u65	The government wanted the advice of the social partners on measures to reduce the impact of the omikron wave on business continuity. I'm sure we had to think about that. We need to prepare for the worst while hoping for the best. I am also convinced that the voice of the social partners is important in this. The Group of Ten reached a consensus on certain measures at various meetings. However, they did not agree on other measures and on the modalities of implementation. The President of the Group of Ten informed us of this on 18 January. So we have given the social partners a little more time to reach an agreement. Unfortunately, however, no unanimous agreement could be reached. We will nevertheless take action on the basis of the measures on which there seemed to be a consensus on 17 January and on the basis of the document signed by 8 out of 10 partners. Before going into the measures, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the social partners have called for strict compliance with the preventive measures. These include safety regulations, generic and sectoral guides and mandatory telework. There was a consensus within the group of ten on a number of measures. Firstly, as regards temporary unemployment, the possibility of recourse to the temporary unemployed of another company. Employees retain 75% of their benefit. Secondly, as regards time credit, career breaks and thematic leave, workers may suspend their current leave to return to work temporarily or to work more hours, even here, while maintaining 75% of their benefit and the possibility of performing additional hours on working days. Thirdly, in the case of temporary employment contracts, successive fixed-term contracts which have reached their maximum legal maturity and which are renewed for at least seven days during this period are exceptionally not regarded as contracts of indefinite duration. Fourthly, as far as pensioners are concerned, unlimited accumulation of income from work and pension is allowed, including for persons who are in early retirement. Fifth, as far as the bridge pension is concerned, people who are unemployed can start working on a farm or in another holding, while retaining 75% of their benefit and maintaining the farm allowance. Sixth, as far as asylum seekers are concerned, people with legal, temporary or permanent residence permits can get to work immediately without having to wait four months. Finally, as far as student labour is concerned, there is a neutralization of up to 45 hours worked during this period. These 45 hours therefore do not count in the calculation of the maximum of 475 hours per year. We intend, of course, to neutralise the effects of the additional earnings from this period, so that there will be no surprises afterwards, both in terms of tax and social security contributions. For some, the measures are difficult to accept, as I understand. I would therefore like to be very clear about the agreement within the majority of the Group of Ten: these are crisis measures. We take this initiative because we have to respond to high absenteeism in companies. We cannot stand back and let our Belgian companies bleed. We cannot abandon the population when it is threatened with shortages in basic needs. I say loud and clear that these are exceptional measures which cannot serve as a precedent. These are measures which are part of the omikron wave and which are, by definition, temporary. I won't let them walk longer than necessary. Finally, I am counting on employers to use the package responsibly in the public interest. Only under these conditions can I accept these exceptional emergency measures and introduce them temporarily in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u66	What do you think of that, Mr Colebunders?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u67	That is an open question, or possibly a preliminary. Minister, do you really think that more flexibility is needed? Aren't people malleable enough yet? Haven't they been squeezed enough? We must not go beyond certain limits. Firstly, because our legislation already allows measures to deal with staff shortages. Think of flexi jobs and overtime. Secondly, because we are handing the employers a blank cheque in this way. I shall come back to that in a moment. As some trade unionists point out, the employer will be able to decide whether or not to introduce these flexibility measures. Trade unions are only informed about it. I don't think that's possible. I therefore understand the concerns of some trade unionists who believe that negotiations on these flexibility measures should have taken place within the sectors. The specific circumstances depend on the type of company. We therefore regret that the Minister is unaware of the lack of unanimity and consensus within the Group of Ten. Respecting social dialogue also means taking it into account when there is no unanimity among the social partners. We ask you to take the lack of unanimity and consensus within the Group of Ten seriously. If one of the major trade unions opposes it, it is because it has legitimate reasons to object to the new flexibility measures. Finally, you have expressly stated, and I am going to explicitly record this, that these corona measures are only temporary. If I've learned anything, it's not temporary here. If one gives a finger to the employer, if it is temporary, then this becomes the general rule. So if this does not prove temporary, I will also appeal to you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u68	I think it is a good package of measures and the temporary nature that could become permanent: we are not talking about temporary unemployment, but about a package of measures that are temporary in an emergency. In fact, we had a lot of these measures at the beginning of the crisis in the form of powers of attorneys in 2020. Many of these instruments have not been new and have been applied before. I have seen many reactions from employers and workers that some of these measures have certainly worked. I'll follow you there. I also said that in 2020, these instruments are possible in a temporary emergency. I understand that there has been a great deal of consultation and that everyone, with the exception of one partner, has also agreed on the necessity and the temporality of this package. I can only support this and I hope that it will be introduced soon. It is also up to the government to see how it can bring this to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u69	Minister, on 18 January 2022 you received a question about the negotiations in the service cheque sector. At that time, you stated that, despite the difficulties in reaching an agreement, all the parties had agreed to continue the negotiations. However, on 20 January, the Common Trade Union Front issued a press release condemning employers' attitudes. We heard that, for example, they did not even show up at the meeting held on the same 20 January and that the negotiations are now blocked. The unions are angry, and they're right. There will be actions. What do you intend to do to ensure that the profits and dividends from the sector go directly to the household help and not to the employers and shareholders? Will you finally force employers to respond positively to the demands of the unions? If so, how? How do you respond to the trade unions' statement that the sector of small, local non-profit organisations has become a commercial sector in which a dozen large players hold half of the market? How can this trend be countered and how can a healthier situation be restored? What could you do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u70	Last week, Minister, you expressed the hope and said that all parties were ready for further consultation, but now, indeed, the press release from the trade unions shows that the employers were absent at the meeting of the Joint Committee on 20 January, in which negotiations would continue. In these negotiations, the main bottleneck remains the correct reimbursement of transport costs. Households now spend about 10% of their income on this and actually pay to go to work. Meanwhile, Het Poetsbureau also reported this weekend that the staff shortage is rising. Those who need cleaning aid must now wait until a year for help. I have said it several times here: cleaning aid is very valuable. They are essential for a well-functioning labour market. They ensure that others can free themselves from domestic tasks and get to work themselves. How do you estimate the situation? How do you intend to ensure that the consultation is resumed and that an agreement is reached so that the cleaning aid finally gets a fair wage, plus the travel allowances they are entitled to? Finally, there is the question of the fundamental reform of the sector. The trade unions say that in fifteen years the sector has changed from a sector with small, local non-profit organisations to the major commercial players who mainly bring regional government subsidies for better working conditions either to the shareholders or spend in other branches of their group. They therefore ask the regional authorities to reflect on this and to return to the original objective, in particular the creation of qualitative, local and sustainable employment. This is a regional competence, but I do see a link in it to the federal level, especially with regard to the working conditions and wages of cleaning aid. I haven't even talked about the bottleneck professions. Is there any discussion on this? Are you going to take the initiative so that a breakthrough can finally be achieved in this sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u71	The situation has indeed changed. The meeting on 20 January did not take place. For the time being, both banks remain on their positions. That makes further consultation difficult. Questions are therefore rightly asked about developments in the sector. The sector has been regionalised. As a Federal Minister of Work, it is difficult to comment on a matter which falls within the competence of colleagues from the regional authorities. Of course, I support any approach to support the situation of workers in the sector. I will not fail to address my colleagues from the regional authorities. Nor at the level of the federal government do we leave the employees in the service cheque sector to their fate. I recently excluded the service cheque sector from the system of start-up wages. Companies can no longer pay lower wages to young workers. In addition, with the Law of 23 December 2021 on temporary support measures following the COOVID-19 pandemic, in view of the re-flame of the pandemic, we have again imposed additional security measures that companies must comply with in order to ensure the safety of their employees in the service cheque sector. More generally, I refer to what I said last week in terms of improving the working conditions of workers, namely a better reconciliation of work and family life, and pen sibility funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u72	Minister, I met some of the service sector housekeepers last week. They feel like second-class workers, and I had no objection to that: they were right. Compared to equivalent jobs in the cleaning sector, salaries are easily 2 euros lower. Moreover, movements between two customers are not reimbursed as working time and they themselves have to pay for most of their travel costs which sometimes amount to up to 10% of their wages. That is simply unacceptable. Employers do not care about their working conditions and do not intend to respond to the legitimate demands of the trade unions. The responsibility lies with you now. When employers' organisations such as Federgon show such contempt for all these workers, the responsibility lies with the politicians. It is up to you to take strong measures to force these employers to increase wages and ensure a fair reimbursement of relocation costs. We therefore ask you to act in favour of the workers, because the employers will not do so. Don't hide behind the social consultation. When it came to freezing wages at 0.4%, one of the two camps, namely the trade unions, did not agree. So this argument really doesn't make any sense. We call on all workers to support the various trade union actions. Only by fighting do we get respect and make real social progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u73	Minister, I can only confirm that the cleaning aid is very disappointed. I have already said it in plenary: it is the same floor puller. However, there is a large difference between their wage and working conditions and those of the cleaning sector, while they are equally essential. There will be further actions and I hope that this will help the cause. For me, it is important that the cleaning aid has a good wage, but also that the travel allowances are good, so that they do not have to recoup their income to work. I welcome the fact that you are talking to the regions to see if they can return to the original objectives in that sector. There has been discussions on tackling bottlenecks and I think this is clearly appropriate. If there are fewer helpers and if there are fewer helpers, this is already a bottleneck profession in itself. This will lead to further bottlenecks in the professions. In this sense, I would urge that both the regions responsible for the subsidy and the federal level responsible for the framework be given serious consideration in order to ensure that the poetry aid is finally provided with sound wage and working conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u74	Mr President-in-Office, the problem of PFOS remains topical. That is normal, of course, because the health of the residents, the employees and also the former employees of the sites contaminated with PFOS is of the highest priority. In addition to my previous questions and after your answer to Mr Mertens on the checks on work in the PFOS scandal, I have a few questions. When we look at the results of all kinds of measurements on the various contaminated sites, it always comes to the conclusion that there is, I quote: 'no acute danger to health'. That is an odd statement, because is there a difference between a health hazard and an acute health problem? From what standard do you and your services consider there is a health risk due to PFOS? What blood standards and what exposure standards do your inspection services use to determine the health risk in the event of a PFOS infection? Since when has the FOD WASO been aware of the fact that substances from the PFAS family may pose a health risk to employees? In your reply to Mr Mertens' question, you referred to the so-called MAK values, in the absence of Belgian limit values. Are these German MAK values not based on American values, which in turn are the result of research and study of 3M itself? That seems very easy to me. Can we accept such standards in such a case? It seems to us that it is high time for an independent investigation so that we can establish and apply Belgian standards. Are you willing to participate in such an independent investigation within your powers with the FOD WASO?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u75	Mr Colebunders, for the PFOA group, no binding biological limit values have been set in Belgian welfare legislation. For ammonium perfluorooctanoate only, the occupational exposure limit in the workplace atmosphere is 0.01 milligrams per cubic metre. In the absence of this, the German limit values, the MAK and the BAT may be used. For PFOS a BAT of 15 milligrams per litre applies, for PFOA a BAT of 5 milligrams per litre applies. If these standards are exceeded, there may be a health risk for workers. 3M applies even lower standards, namely 5 milligrams per litre of air for PFOS and 2 milligrams per litre of air for PFOA. I cannot confirm that the German MAK values are based on American values. The FOD WASO was informed of the health risks of PFAS in June 2021. The FPS Employment does not have the means to derive occupational exposure limit values itself. The limit values laid down in Belgian welfare legislation are based on European limit values or limit values derived by institutions with the necessary expertise. In establishing European limit values, Belgium can make its contribution through the Advisory Committee on Safety and Health at Work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u76	I really don't understand why you don't want to invest in carrying out a thorough study yourself. You cannot confirm it, but I will do it myself: for those studies, the basis was actually laid by studies carried out by 3M itself. That's just absurd. The fact that you cannot find confirmation of this is a sign of how little we are doing in our own country. It is clear on the ground what is going on and how important it is to invest in it. Saying in hindsight that we didn't know, I really don't want to be in our country. In short, invest in studies yourself, very quickly. In the end, only one group is the victim, namely the people on the ground itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u77	Debates of the European Parliament Ms Lanjri's 55024383C is deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u78	Mrs Thémont, as soon as I took office, I implemented an extension of parental leave, gradually increasing the birth leave from 10 days to 20 days by 2024. I thank you for the support and preparatory work you have done to ensure that this progress can be achieved as quickly as possible. With regard to parental leave, it is envisaged that both parents will be able to take a four-month thematic leave. In order to ensure equal treatment, this leave is non-transferable from one parent to another, precisely in order to avoid parental leave being taken essentially by one parent or the other. It is known that, in general, the risk now weighs more on the mother than on the father. The work-life balance directive, which should soon be transposed into Belgian law, provides for a series of measures to improve equal treatment for men and women. We will have an opportunity to discuss this very soon on the basis of the transposition of this directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u79	Minister, I must say that I am satisfied with the answer. Not only do you thank me, minister! - but also, as you said, we will have the opportunity to discuss this project again. I'll be sure to ask you again. It is indeed necessary, on the organization of leave, to participate in the maintenance of an equal system and to be attentive to the future reform of leave as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u80	On 9 December 2021, you stated in the plenary session of the Chamber that you wanted to come forward with concrete proposals quickly on the status of platform workers. In particular, you were thinking of applying the legislation on accidents at work to, among other things, bicycle couriers. You also wanted to apply the principle of presumption of contract of employment, in which you wanted to reverse the burden of proof. In other words, the platform had to demonstrate that it was not a classic relationship between employer and employee, but rather that there was an independent activity or a job in the collaborative economy. Meanwhile, the European Commission also put forward a first series of proposals last month. What is the state of discussion in the government? Last week, you said that you had made a proposal. What are the main lines of that? In what way do you cooperate with the Minister for Self-employed Persons, who is also competent, but also with regard to the law on employment relations? What is the timetable for discussing the proposal for an EU directive at the European Council? How will the Belgian position be determined? Will you wait for the outcome of the European discussions before finalising the Belgian legislative framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u81	We are seriously considering which employment contracts should apply in the platform economy. We must take into account all the case law, in Belgium and in other European countries, but also the initiatives of other countries and of the European Union, which recently launched a draft directive on this subject. To find a good solution, we put the website platformwork.be online last year. On the basis of the initial contributions and testimonies, I made a concrete proposal to the government, which will be submitted later to the social partners. The proposal is currently under discussion in the government. The aim is to adapt the law on the nature of the employment relationship in order to provide workers who are structurally active in the platform economy with good working conditions and better social protection. I will certainly come back to you when the talks in the government will be concluded. Hopefully it will be soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic669x.u82	Minister, I understand that the content of the text needs to be discussed before you come to Parliament. I look forward to that. For Open Vld, social protection and working conditions are very important, but not everyone has to be employees. The self-employed status is also a possibility. I expect input for that project as soon as possible.
