ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u1	Mr Minister, in this return-to-work coordination as a link in the improved return-to-work process, please explain the procedure of return-to-work paths. It states that if the AO lasts at least ten weeks, the sickness fund will send an electronic questionnaire to the insured person. If the questionnaire was not completed after two weeks, the return-to-work coordinator will receive a signal. It will then be decided whether or not to send the questionnaire again. It is also to be read that the new back-to-work coordinator will make a selection to whom the questionnaire will and will not be sent. A survey showed that only four out of ten questionnaires were completed. Not all long-term sick people receive the questionnaire either. There is a logic behind it, the health insurance funds themselves have to make a selection of profiles that might be able to get back to work. This will also be the case with the return-to-work routes. Can you give me some insight into how the sickness funds are currently making this selection and the future back-to-work coaches? What parameters are used for this? It is important that not every health insurance institution fills that out in a different way. In addition, the original questionnaire for reintegration pathways from then Minister De Block concerned 60 questions, which was reduced to 15 questions. However, the original questionnaire was developed by a collaboration between the RIZIV and the KU Leuven. Well, it was thought of at the time, wasn't it? Why was the questionnaire shortened? Does this not make it more difficult for sickness funds to estimate the remaining employment opportunities? On what basis did the discount happen? Are academics and experts involved? What questions weren't stopped? Why did they lose relevance?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u2	Mr Minister, I already questioned you last month about the questionnaires that the sickness funds submit to those who have been sick for a long time at home. Four out of ten questionnaires are currently not completed, two out of ten lists are poorly completed. You mentioned the questionnaires as a useful tool for assessing who needs additional support when returning to the labour market. The Flemish Patient Platform doubts the content of the questionnaires, especially where the questions survey the mental barriers to getting back to work. Testimonies through the doctors of Medicine for the People give the same picture. People can be deeply affected by certain questions about their managers, their colleagues or their delay in returning to the workplace. At the VDAB experts also ask themselves out loud whether the right questions can be asked. You say you want to help people, but the sick can experience this help quite differently. On top of that, you're planning sanctions. Will you have the content of the questionnaires revised? Do you recognise that the questionnaires and the pressure to deliver them can also have disastrous consequences for the sick? Will you have this examined? How will you determine whether a questionnaire has been completed? What guidelines are given to the coaches and the doctors who advise them on this? How many questionnaires will the sickness funds send in total in 2023? What's about your assessment of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u3	Mr Minister, the introduction of the return-to-work coordinators and the mandatory questionnaire raise some resistance among the sickness funds, but also the Flemish Patient Platform opposes the introduction of the questionnaire and the sanctions. Re-integration-expert Mrs Willems of the VDAB also indicated that the questionnaires should be carefully reviewed before the sanctions are introduced. All this was demonstrated by a busy information session organized by your cabinet. Did you consult with those involved in the preparation of this questionnaire? What was the outcome of these talks? Will you adapt the questionnaire to their possible comments? How will you succeed if your main partners do not seem to have a broad basis for your planned working methods?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u4	On 10 January, the Flemish press published data on the rate of filling of questionnaires sent to workers with incapacity for work. As a result, 40% of the persons concerned would not respond. This illustrates the need for better support for this public, whose situation, by definition, sometimes also explains the difficulties in meeting this type of obligation and in doing so in the given time. From this point of view, the fact that, from this year onwards, the shipment is only made after ten weeks should help to reduce this ratio. So this is already a step in the right direction. Moreover, caution is required in the analysis of these figures because of the disparities observed with regard to the sickness insurance fund consulted. Thus, if 41.1 per cent of the questionnaires were not put on the side of Christian mutualities and about 40 per cent of neutral, free and liberal mutualities, this rate would fall to more or less 20 per cent to socialist mutualities. So there is no fatality. Since the first sanctions were not foreseen until 2023, it still leaves some time for the various actors to complete the process. Have you read this information? Does that match the numbers in your possession? What lessons can be learned for the future, particularly as regards the role of the coordinator Return to work?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u5	I will try to answer the questions in the order in which they were asked. To Mrs Van Peel's very first question, I can answer that, as a rule, 10 weeks after the onset of incapacity for work, the doctor will send a questionnaire to the beneficiary. But, and that is the exception to the rule, the counseling doctor, so not the return-to-work coordinator, may deviate from that obligation for justified medical reasons. A list of diagnoses has been used to organise that derogation in a uniform manner within all insurance institutions. That list goes back to the work of the High Commission of the Medical Board for Invalidity. In drawing up the memorandum on multidisciplinaryity, this High Commission has drawn up a list of conditions for which contact by the medical adviser on the sixth month of primary incapacity for work is not compulsory. The list does not include those conditions which it was considered would not make sense at the time to evaluate incapacity for work and to assess the possibilities for reintegration. This list was used as a basis for drawing up the list of diagnoses for which a questionnaire should not be sent for 10 weeks, for sound medical reasons. This list should ensure some uniformity in its application by the different insurance institutions. Mrs van Peel, you also mentioned the original work and the reduction in the initial list. At the request of my predecessor, Mrs De Block, the Knowledge Centre of the RIZIV appointed a research group of the KU Leuven, led by Lode Godderis, with the task of developing a questionnaire. The questionnaire had a double purpose. The first goal was to support the counseling doctor in the categorization; hence the idea 'quickscan'. It was not intended to replace the doctor's clinical trial. The replies to the questionnaire provide additional input and are used together with the other parts of the file to assess the possibilities for going back to work. Secondly, the aim was to predict the risk of long-term incapacity for work six months after completing the questionnaire. Those six months relate precisely to what I have just said about which diseases are considered to be a reason not to send that questionnaire if, after six months, no solution is expected for incapacity for work. Professor Godderis' research group has translated these objectives into a three-phase research project: a literature study, a consultation of end-users and a validation of these studies in the form of a pilot project at the insurance institutions. I might be able to swim over to Mrs Samyn's questions. That research group of Professor Godderis indeed had extensive consultations with the sickness funds as well as with the end-users when developing the questionnaire. The mutualities are involved in every step of the investigation. They have been able to provide feedback at any time. It has been taken into account where possible and where that was convincing. The same applies to patient groups, the patients are actively involved in the study and their feedback was included where possible. We will, of course, continue to evaluate this questionnaire in the future. That's the process. The literature study and the consultation of end-users led to an initial questionnaire, consisting of 61 questions. Then a validation took the form of a pilot project at the insurance institutions. The initial list was sent to a sample of insured persons in two stages. These insured persons were also examined whether they were still recognised as unfit for work six months after completion, and this enabled the researchers to select the questions which adequately predicted the risk of long-term incapacity for work. That turned out to be 15. The selection of questions was done through a scientific study, so not at all ad hoc. The difference between 61 and 15, i.e. 46 questions, has been deleted. I can read them all 46, but I don't think this makes much sense. I can deliver them to the secretariat if you want. Then you can see what happened to Professor Godderis in that scientific process. Mr Colebunders, I think I have already answered some of your questions, but I will go a little further. If you have any questions about the methodology used and want a detailed description of the validation, please refer to the publications on this subject. I can also refer you to the link on the website. Its title is Quickscan Assistes Risk of Long-Term Sickness Absence. A Cross-Sectional Validation Study of the KULeuven. It goes without saying that we will continue to monitor the evolution of knowledge in this area and will always propose the most appropriate tool for screening. The instrument enables the physician and his team to obtain information in a much earlier stage and in a more general way. This rapid action is intended to prevent people from falling into long-term disability and benefit situations. It is therefore not a matter of putting people under pressure, but of giving them support as quickly and as early as possible, when appropriate from a medical point of view. The questionnaire is therefore an initial indicator tool, but it is not the only one. The questionnaire is also not intended to be used on its own, but in combination with a history and a clinical examination by the physician and his team. This combination, if there are no contraindications, can facilitate a return to the labour market or the joint construction of a reintegration path. In order to optimise the care for the socially insured, the personal nature of certain information is unmistakable. I believe that this is inevitable, but the answer is entirely medically secret and can only be analysed by the staff of the competent insurance institutions. In addition, the Royal Decree amending the Royal Decree of 3 July 1996 implementing the Law on compulsory medical care and benefits, coordinated on 14 July 1994, provides that the return-to-work coordinator may assist the insured person in completing the questionnaire if the insured person so wishes. The return-to-work coordinator will also actively offer this assistance by contacting them. Therefore, if we find that the questionnaire contains too little information to make a correct assessment, it will be supplemented by the contacts with the return-to-work coordinator and the consulting physician and his team. You also asked about numbers. For the year 2023, we can expect 200,000 questionnaires. Finally, Mrs Bonaventure, with regard to your reference to the article published by De Standaard on 10 January, we are indeed aware of the figures mentioned. Each insurer must send different statistics on the questionnaire to INAMI on a quarterly basis. 2021 data are being finalized but trends are similar to 2020 data. As stated in the Royal Decree which I have just mentioned, in particular in Article 215 decies §1, the coordinator Returning to work will be able to contact the insured person in order to remind him of the need to complete this questionnaire and, if necessary, to provide him with the necessary support and support for this task. In addition, Article 215 duodecies of the same royal decree specifies that the social insured person will also be invited by the coordinator Return to work to complete the questionnaire in case of a journey Return to spontaneous work. These new provisions will only improve the response rate. Furthermore, as I have just said, we are of course attentive to the feedback on the possible difficulties encountered by the social policyholders in replying to this questionnaire. Of course, the results of these future shipments, as well as the actions of the return-to-work coordinators, will be carefully examined by the INAMI Compensation Service Management Committee and much higher response rates are expected. I therefore believe that what has been said about the past is not at all representative of the process that will be launched, which is a process supported by these coordinators Back to work. This is a real process of support, of support for patients, with, as I have just said to Mrs Van Peel, an exclusion of patients who are victims of a pathology that does not allow an immediate prospect of return to work. Immediately, this means within the next six months.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am glad to hear that there are parameters, because that is not always the case. The fact that this cannot apply to certain diseases also makes sense to me. From the point of view of my second question, I would have liked to have looked at the deleted questions, so you can certainly deliver them to the committee secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u7	We'll deliver it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u8	Mr President, I would like to ask you this because I hear in your explanation that in the last phase, the approach of the sickness fund has been rather a priority. I know that you think that I am asking too many questions about the sickness funds, but in view of the questions that are still pending, my questions seem to me to be well founded. Those deleted questions do interest me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u9	Minister, you have answered a lot, but almost the same as you did at the previous committee meeting. You can argue that we ask the same questions, but they do happen quite often if they remain unanswered. I would like to come back to the figure that we have calculated ourselves. I'm glad you're answering the same number. By 2023, you estimate that there will be 200,000 questionnaires. If I can count correctly, this concerns 3.333 files per return-to-work coordinator. Those coordinators can never handle all these files, can they ever help everyone? For people who do not understand, forget or cannot fill out the form, it is not natural that they receive help, or they may end up on a waiting list somewhere far away. This brings me to the point of people's well-being, a point which is very sensitive to me. A third of the long-term sick suffer from mental problems these days. I'm not a doctor, but I'll be informed by doctors. Putting pressure on people with mental problems is really not okay. The Flemish Patient Platform also speaks out in that sense. The psychologists of Medicine for the People, by what they hear from patients, give the same signal. So your questionnaire may be very suitable for activation policy, but it should remain healthy, to be honest. There is a contradiction there, and I want you to look into it carefully. I would remind you that in the meantime every expert, including the experts who prepared your questionnaire of 15 questions, states that reintegration must be voluntary and that sanctions do not work. The social partners say the same thing. I'm afraid you're listening too much to your liberal coalition colleagues and to the N-VA with their for-what-what-what-what mentality. In this respect, they are a bit demagogic and populist.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u10	Minister, you explained the chronology of the questionnaire process. In this context, it remains strange that the partners concerned are now expressing themselves negatively in the press. The first reactions from the field are certainly not encouraging. Those who need to implement the questionnaire are not currently in favour either. They also feel hurt in their honour, because they are being pointed at for the work that you think they are doing or not doing. Without the necessary broad basis, the problems of the long-term sick will not be solved. You're looking at an inconvenient mountain of long-term sick people. I have already called on you in this committee to conduct a wide-ranging survey of the people themselves. Specific measures should be developed to address the various underlying problems of long-term disease. You do not want and will not do that; we already have that certainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u11	Minister, thank you. Even if we know that sanctions from 2023 onwards will be very limited, they will still be real. It is therefore important, as I said, to carefully analyse everything that can be done in order to complete the process, as long as we are still in this intermediate phase. Moreover, to those who are always quick to blame workers, I would point out that the reform also provides for a specific employer's contribution for companies with an excessive flow of workers with disabilities compared to the average in their sector, which is likely to stimulate the implementation of these preventive measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u12	Mr Minister, it is a question of the umpteenth e-mail on an individual file. The resumption of partial or progressive work constitutes the possibility for disabled persons to combine part-time work with a sickness benefit. Article 100 of the co-ordinated law of 1994 provides that the person unable to work may only be authorised by the doctor of the sickness fund if his working capacity is at least 50%. However, the letter 2018/45 clarifies that this reduction in the working capacity by up to 50% does not relate to the work volume that can be allowed by the medical adviser. So admission should not necessarily involve a half-time activity. As you know, our party is in favour of a system of employment integration jobs, whereby the worker can resume work without any additional intervention from the sickness fund's doctor, while maintaining the benefit in full, but against payment of a solidarity contribution to social security. However, as long as the existing system of resumption of work is in place, I think it is important that at least the doctors and other staff of the sickness funds do not misunderstand that criterion. I repeat that it was not a good week, we cannot rely on it simply so that they make correct decisions and provide information to disabled persons who do wish to resume work. This is important because the disabled must not be unduly discouraged from returning to work. Can you confirm, Minister, that the current rules also allow more than half-time work to resume through part-time work? Do you know of cases in which disabled persons who wish to resume work by persons in the sickness fund or by the counseling doctor have been misinformed of the possibility of returning to work more or less than half-time through the partial resumption of work? After all, I have received some of these cases. What means do you have to follow up and, if necessary, deal with correct information by employees of the sickness funds or the consulting doctor?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u13	Mrs van Peel, the current regulation does indeed provide that the invalid entitled person may resume an adapted activity after the medical adviser has been authorised. The consultant can only grant an authorisation under two conditions. The beneficiary retains from a medical point of view a reduction in his or her ability of at least 50% and the intended resumption of work must be compatible with the condition of that beneficiary. That's what our legislation says. The condition relating to the reduction in the capacity of at least 50% is only a medical criterion, contrary to Article 100 (1) of the Coordinated Law of 14 July 1994, in particular the condition for being recognised as unfit for work. This is a reduction in earning capacity to a third or less than a third. That is an economic criterion. The requirement to reduce the power of at least 50% does not therefore relate to the work volume which can be allowed by the medical adviser. The authorisation should therefore not necessarily be limited to a maximum of half-time activity. The counseling doctor may say that someone can resume work for seventy percent, but only as long as the insured person remains unfit for medical attention. The Benefits Service has informed me that he has already received telephone and written communications from social security and employers, which shows that there are still a number of misunderstandings about the application of that criterion. Compared to a few years ago, there has been a real improvement in this area. The Benefits Service provides the necessary communication by drawing up specific guidelines for the benefit of the medical advisors and the conversion letter for the benefit of the insurance institutions. The conditions to be fulfilled to resume work and the correct application of that 50% criterion have also been discussed several times during colloquia organised in recent years. The doctors-inspectors of the Medical Evaluation and Control Office of the RIZIV may, if necessary, point out to the advisory doctors the correct application of that criterion. The evaluation of that criterion falls within the exclusive competence of the consulting doctors when it comes to granting admission to work. If the admission to resume work during incapacity for work would be refused solely on the basis of the motivation that a work resumes during incapacity for work is not possible for more than 50% of full-time employment, and the insured person thus retains a reduction in the medical capacity of at least 50%, the insured person may, of course, appeal against this decision to the labour court. The insured person may then invoke that the decision is not in accordance with the rules in force.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u14	However, Minister, it is striking that the sickness funds that'misunderstand', as you call it, are quite often in the same direction, with the intention of not having as many people active as possible. Here, too, I have some files. It's nice that the insured person himself finds out that he's being misinformed, that he can file a complaint or ask for a withdrawal, but isn't that incredible? We need to take away all other roles from the health insurance funds, except: to advise and inform correctly. Too often mistakes are made to the detriment of the social integration of people. This is another example of that. This is about people wanting to get to work, but being told that they shouldn't work too much, because that's not allowed by law. It's allowed by law, but it's not allowed by the health insurance fund. You're a little light about it. There is legislation to sanction sickness funds for errors, such as Article 166 of the ZIV Act. I have often asked written and oral questions on this subject. This is as good as ever. In my mailbox alone, there are more cases of incorrect information that clients receive, with all the consequences, than the figures you give me. You should take such misunderstandings more seriously. This is the only task that the sickness funds should have, in particular not to pass on that kind of misunderstanding to their clients.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u15	My question fits perfectly with the previous one. This is again a case in which the sickness funds have held both a judge and a party. It dates back a while, but unfortunately the files continue to follow each other. Yesterday there was another case in the newspapers where maternity rest was not granted to a woman who had registered for training. It was apparently unthinkable that someone should be educated during a period which she chooses and for which she pays the bill herself. At least for the Christian Mutuality (CM). The original case concerned a doctor who wanted to help her colleagues during the compulsory maternity rest week prior to childbirth and was punished for doing so by a complete withdrawal of her benefit. Legally speaking, there is no question of depriving the right to maternity leave as a sanction for working during the last week before the estimated date of delivery, which is, in fact, often different in reality. It is true that you cannot receive benefits for the days on which you work, which makes sense. However, there is no provision in the law that in that case the full right to paid maternity leave will lapse. In an initial reaction to the press, both the RIZIV and your cabinet gave the idea that the law could be interpreted in this way. Minister Clarinval, against that, referred to this case as disproportionate and also confirmed that this is not a sanction in any legal text. The headmistress of the CM had a record of her doubting. Then why doesn't she contact the RIZIV herself to find out how to correctly interpret the law? Because of the doubt it was decided internally to leave it to the consultant. In practical terms, if you call the CM as a self-employed person, you can get someone who says that you do not receive benefits for one week, but for the last two weeks, because that is a fundamental right. If you happen to get another person on the phone, you might as well say that you are not receiving any benefit at all. The consultants were allowed to interpret the rules themselves. Apparently, that's how a health insurance company solves that. Furthermore, the reaction of the director of the CM made it clear that her sickness fund had fought very hard for that extra week of rest before childbirth, so it also felt that that week was so important that a sanction had to be imposed. The sickness fund thus plays both a judge and a party here, in a way that it is still impossible to explain to its members. The same goes for that woman who's in training. Apparently, a sickness fund must do everything in its power to ensure that its members are not active and, above all, are not active. Obviously, there's been a mistake. I've also asked around other health insurance companies. It is also the only health insurance institution that makes that interpretation. Apparently there are no figures on other files, which I have already asked Minister Clarinval. I'd like to ask you to take the initiative as the competent minister for sickness funds. Perhaps you could have an audit carried out on the interpretation of the legislation by the sickness funds. Perhaps you can also request all the files from the CM, which were decided in the same line, so that this can be corrected. I also believe that this should be corrected by own resources rather than by additional resources from the RIZIV. They have enough, and that's how it is in the law. Minister, what will you do about the CM? What's your message to them? Are you considering an audit? How will you dig out the files? How will you fix this? What sanction will follow, so that it is made clear that a sickness fund does not have the power to interpret a law at its discretion?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u16	Minister, maternity rest is there to protect child and mother and to give their time for each other, in the period after childbirth but also before childbirth. Before giving birth, employees and self-employed persons must take up a week. Recently we heard the story of a general practitioner who continued to work during this compulsory week to help her colleagues out of need, after which she received the message from the CM that her maternity allowance would not be paid. That's really disproportionate and unacceptable. We discussed this with Minister Clarinval last week. However, I have to say that the current regime is unclear as to what the consequences may be for an independent mother who is still pursuing the professional activity. In the 2017 KB there is a lot of interpretation space. It ensures that people in similar situations get a different outcome. Sometimes people lose the full maternity allowance, which should not be the intention. Others do not receive the benefit in part, for the days they have worked. Last week, Minister Clarinval replied that this would be discussed at the consultations between the RIZIV and the National Intermutualist College. The intention was to draw up a forward letter which refines the application of the regulation so that clarity and uniformity can be achieved. That is a good thing. I also asked Minister Clarinval for figures, but he couldn't give them. I had asked for figures on how many times this had occurred, how many times this was completely refused and so on. Mr Minister, last Thursday the discussion took place. I hear that this has been positive and that a number of chalk lines have already been put on paper with a view to a clearer interpretation. When can we expect the new directives? Secondly, can you confirm that there will be a retroactive correction for mothers in similar situations? In doing so, I stand up for mothers in a similar situation whose case did not appear in the media. Thirdly, can you tell me how many mothers have lost their maternity allowance in full or in part because they continued to work during their compulsory childbirth rest?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u17	Minister, a while ago there was a lot to do about the Christian Mutuality's decision to deny an independent motherhood allowance. The person concerned had continued to work in the compulsory week of childbirth rest and had informed the sickness fund that she could forget the whole benefit, including the one during the after-birth rest. That was corrected after that. The Minister responsible for the social status of the self-employed has indicated that the decision is disproportionate and that he will communicate clearly with the sickness funds. In the meantime, it became clear that no data are available on the number of people who were or are in the same situation. This, of course, brings us to the question of the situation for employees or persons in other statutes. How many workers were at work during the mandatory week of maternity leave or nine weeks of maternity leave? In this case, what was the consequence and, where appropriate, the penalty for the benefit for employees and employers? Have your services established a different treatment between the different sickness funds? Did maternity leave and maternity leave for workers form part of the consultation on 3 February between the RIZIV Benefits Office and the National Intermutualist College, to which Minister Clarinval referred? What was the outcome of that meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u18	Minister, it is unnecessary to repeat exactly what has happened. The fact is that the sickness fund made a mistake. We need to see how this can be prevented. It certainly doesn't get any easier if many laws are interpretable. I have always stressed the need to prevent this and to allocate the necessary resources to this end. In many cases, compulsory maternity rest protects women from the pressure to continue working. However, it cannot be the intention to delete a whole benefit for a few days worked. We agree on that. Does it happen more often that workers or self-employed persons lose their benefits? Do you think that the RIZIV and the sickness fund are right to deal with the issue with their proposal of fairer regulation? Will you generalize this arrangement for all similar cases? How many similar cases or complaints did the RIZIV receive in 2020 and 2021? How often should the RIZIV act?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u19	Mrs Lanjri is right to point out first what the objective is of the mandatory nature of maternity rest in the week before the expected date of delivery. This concerns the protection of the health of the future mother and unborn child. It is important that no work is performed in the immediate period around the estimated date of delivery. That is still a very responsible objective. As Mrs Lanjri has also pointed out, the current rules do not contain an explicit provision on the consequences of a self-employed person continuing his professional activity during that week. Nor does the present letter to the insurance institutions contain concrete instructions on the precise consequences for the self-employed of the right to maternity benefits in that situation. However, I believe that the refusal to grant maternity benefit for the entire period of maternity rest if the selfemployed person has still exercised her professional activity during the period of compulsory pre-birth rest is disproportionate. In such a situation, only the payment for the week of compulsory pre-birth rest in which work was carried out should be refused for failure to comply with the prohibition. For the remaining period of maternity rest, maternity allowance may be granted provided, of course, that the condition of cessation of any activity during that period of full maternity rest is met. In that context, it should be noted that the exercise of a professional activity during the week of compulsory pre-birth rest results in the refusal of the full weekly benefit, irrespective of the number of days in which the activity is carried out, because the maternity allowance for selfemployed persons only grants weekly benefits. On the basis of a consultation between the RIZIV and the National Intermutualist College, which took place at the request of Minister Clarinval and myself last Thursday, 3 February, the circular will be refined with concrete instructions, so that a uniform arrangement is ensured if the self-employed person has not ceased working during the week of compulsory pre-birth rest. As regards the comments made by Mrs Van Peel, the executive official of the RIZIV Administrative Control Office may, pursuant to Article 166 (1) (k) of the Coordinated Law of 14 July 1994, impose an administrative penalty on an insurance institution which, as a result of an error, error or negligence, has not paid a benefit to which the person concerned was entitled under that law. The service was not aware of the file in question. In the meantime, the file has been settled, the benefits have been paid and so the issue is now without object. One can argue that it was difficult to give a sanction because the scheme was not sufficiently clear. Anyway, the file's been settled by now. Then there were some statistical questions. The RIZIV Benefits Office does not actually have any overall statistical data on the number of entitled persons who have worked during the mandatory pre-birth rest nor on the precise consequences of the non-stopping of the activity during the mandatory pre-birth rest for entitlement to maternity benefits for the whole period of maternity rest. The service has not identified any major problems in recent years by providing specific questions of cases by the insured persons or insurance institutions in this respect. Since 1 January 2017, the rules on maternity rest in the self-employed system have been substantially amended. As part of the strengthening of the social status of self-employed women and the reconciliation between working life and family life, the period of maternity rest was extended to 12 weeks or 13 weeks at the time of the birth of a multiple. In addition, the possibility has been introduced to include the optional half-time period, in which the selfemployed person carries on his normal activity for a maximum of half-time, 18 weeks of half-time maternity rest or 20 weeks of half-time maternity rest if the birth of a multiple is expected. The main changes led to the drafting of a new circular to the attention of insurance institutions by the Benefits Office. That circular was submitted to the Management Committee for Self-Employed Benefits Insurance on 6 December 2016. You yourself found that that circular did not indeed contain any specific instructions on the impact on the right to maternity benefits if the insured person still exercised the professional activity during the compulsory pre-birth rest. This means that the instructions are refined in the following way. In the case of the exercise of its normal professional activity or any other professional activity during the optional prenatal weeks in which it has opted for full maternity rest and during the weeks of compulsory maternity rest, maternity benefits shall be refused to selfemployed persons for weeks in which it has not complied with the conditions for the complete cessation of the professional activities, with a decline in the right to maternity leave in question. In the case of the pursuit of her normal professional activity or any other professional activity during the optional postnatal weeks in which she has opted for full maternity rest, the selfemployed person shall be deemed to have ceased her maternity rest from the first day of the week in which she has exercised her activity, with a decline in the right to the week or weeks of maternity rest in which the activity was carried out, unless she has previously applied to her sickness fund for a change in the calendar of her maternity rest for the weeks following the week in which she has carried out an activity, contrary to what she had initially informed her request for maternity rest. The amended circular will be published soon. In so far as previous cases can be detected, the principles set out may be applied to those cases, taking into account, of course, the full legal framework applicable to the reimbursement of maternity rest and maternity insurance for selfemployed persons. The RIZIV is only informed of such problems through complaints. The Administrative Control Office carried out a thematic audit in 2012 of all insurance institutions related to maternity rest benefits in the general scheme, i.e. for workers. The purpose of this thematic audit was to verify that the sickness funds grant the benefits correctly and uniformly in accordance with the rules in force. The findings of the 2012 thematic audit mainly concerned benefits during the periods of pre- and postnatal removal and the determination of periods of maternity rest and removal from work. Another thematic check on maternity protection is foreseen in 2022. Any social insured person may lodge a complaint with the RIZIV or with his or her insurance institution. Each insurance institution must also have a complaint management system. The functioning of that complaint management system shall be monitored within the system of financial accountability of the insurance institutions with regard to the variable part of their administrative costs. Mrs. De Jonge, I don't have any statistics on the employees. In recent years, the Service has registered a limited number of cases of workers. In the event of employment during the compulsory period of maternity rest, the Office considers that the maternity allowance must be refused for the days worked. However, if the worker concerned carries out an activity during the optional after-birth rest, it shall put an end to the reimbursement of her maternity rest from the day of the work. This does not necessarily involve a resumption of work with an employer. It may also involve the exercise of an activity as a self-employed person, a political mandate or voluntary service. If the activity of the employer takes place during the compulsory period of maternity rest, that employer has failed to comply with the prohibition on employment laid down in the Labour Act of 16 March 1971 and a penalty is possible. That is a responsibility of the Minister of Work. My administration has not carried out a concrete analysis of a possible different file handling by the insurance institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u20	So, Minister, there is going to be a circular that refines things. By the way, you can only send them to CM, because the other sickness funds had no questions about the legislation at all. It is very nice that it is refined, but let's just call a cat a cat: the CM has made a big mistake and has continued to make it persistent, despite the emails that were sent back and forth. The CM didn't correct that mistake until after immense pressure, which started with a tweet from someone who has some followers. It's not every citizen in this country that's lucky. Nor will it be the only case dealt with in this way at CM. That would be a bit too coincidental. That would be a little too difficult to reconcile with the fact that the CM has so persistently stuck to the decision. Article 166 (k) of the ZIV Act states a clear sanctioning measure in those cases. I note that you will not apply it. I believe that you are hardly applying that article in the first place. I've already requested the figures on that. It's barely being done. It seems that sick people's funds can continue to make mistakes. The taxpayer, read the RIZIV, puts everything right again and again. However, I believe that there is a clear signal here. There are a lot more files. In my mailbox alone there are more files than I found in the tables, and last week another file of the CM came in the press. So I'm not following your decision at all. I believe that there should be a clear sanction against CM. I think we should take a proper look at how health insurance funds deal with legislation. I believe that we need to discuss the substance of the role they are playing today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u21	Minister, it is very important that the rules should be clarified by means of a letter, because they could be interpreted. That letter asks for the rules to be applied uniformly. If there is to be sanctions, this must be done in a just and proportionate manner. This means that the benefit of an employee is suspended on the days on which they continue to work. In the case of self-employed persons, this is considered per week because these benefits are paid per week. I hear in your reply that flexibility should also be possible, for example when a self-employed person reports a change in the admission of maternity leave to the sickness fund, because, for example, she decides to work part-time. You said that you have no figures, but that no major problems have been identified in the past. I believe so, but you can easily request information from the sickness funds, otherwise the impression remains that what is not true in reality is that it concerns hundreds or thousands of files, with a single sickness fund in particular being endorsed. I myself recently learned from the CM that two cases were noted at the 2021 screening. Now that it is known that this can be corrected, with the agreement of the RIZIV, the CM wants to do the same. If such decisions have been taken by other sickness funds, they must also be corrected. As you pointed out in your reply, the new directives will also apply to cases which may have slipped through the loopholes of the network.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u22	Mr President, of course we are in complete agreement on the objective of prenatal rest. That's important to the mother and the child. It is also clear that benefits cannot be paid for working days. I am pleased that your consultation with Minister Clarinval and the health insurance funds resulted in a circular instructing you to apply the rules uniformly. I regret that we do not have figures on possible cases. There is a continuing concern, especially when we see that there has been another poignant situation this week with someone who is undergoing training. That is a pity, which is why we are concerned that there may be other people in that situation. It should be noted that equal treatment should be sought for any mother confronted with it and that it should not be interpreted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u23	Mr Minister, I am trying to sum up a few things. As I said earlier in my question, there is little point in attacking the sickness funds themselves. Solution-oriented work is needed. I can't imagine a health insurance fund deliberately looking at how it should pay those people as little as possible. This is clearly about an interpretation of the law. Can something like that happen? Absolutely not, but this isn't new. Those laws exist and here is simply unclear about the rules. That lack of clarity was also the case with the previous government. A solution needs to be worked out, but how can we do that? You can audit the mistakes made. An interpretation of the law is a mistake. You know better than I do that any law can be interpreted differently. I have been a Member of Parliament for some time and I have seen several times in the hemisphere cases solved by an interpretation of the law. If we do not make things clearer, such cases will be more frequent. One has to ask the question. The health insurance funds feel the pressure from above. They are being saved up, especially with regard to services. So they have to switch somewhere and then those mistakes are made. They can't be made. We have to fight this and we believe that this must be done urgently. Fortunately, it is now people who dare to bite off, but how many files will there be of people who do not dare? You have not given any figures, so I will submit a written question so that we can find out how many cases we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u24	Minister, a year ago the Latest News block-lettered that things were thoroughly wrong with the control and supervision of long-term sick people. There were barely 260 full-time equivalents within the health insurance funds as an auditor and this to monitor and guide 460,000 long-term sick people to adapted work. At the RIZIV there were 16 full-time equivalents who performed this task. Minister, you have made the reactivation of long-term sick a key point in your policy. That's why I have the following questions for you. How many counseling doctors are now active within the health insurance funds and how many occupational doctors within the RIZIV? How many checks were carried out last year? How do you see the evolution of the number of counseling doctors in the long term?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u25	Mrs. Samyn, it's about the counseling doctors at the health insurance funds and the RIZIV. Within the insurance institutions, 279.8 full-time equivalent doctors are currently active. This is in two areas, the field of control of incapacity for work and the field of medical care. Within the RIZIV Benefits Service there are 12.4 full-time equivalent doctors active. In 2020, a total of 186,944 checks were carried out during the period of disability. This should also include checks during the period of primary incapacity for work. These figures do not have the RIZIV but they have been requested from the VI's. For several years, insurance institutions have been confronted with a lack of advisory doctors. In this context, a vision of multidisciplinary work within the insurance institutions was developed and guidelines for the multidisciplinary teams were drawn up. By encircling the counseling doctor with a multidisciplinary team, he is given the opportunity to approach all aspects of disability, disability and reintegration in a more holistic way. In this way, the quality of the doctor's decisions can be improved. In addition, the workload for the consulting doctor can be reduced if he can employ employees from different disciplines for certain assignments. The consultant retains the full decision-making power. For the social insurers, a multidisciplinary effect leads to a more quality decision-making and motivation regarding his disability, disability and reintegration and a better follow-up and support to work resumption. The Directives also contribute to the uniform treatment of insured persons across insurance institutions. We know that this is not enough to deal with the shortage of advisory doctors. Other federal institutions working with doctors, such as DG Persons with disabilities, Fedris and Medex, are also facing this problem. The FPS Social Security will therefore outsource a study that identifies the cause of the problems and proposes solutions. Within the RIZIV the problem is further investigated and solutions are sought in consultation with the insurance institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. If you really mean it, you will have to bet on increasing the number of doctors and occupational doctors. In an audit by the Court of Auditors about the long-term sick, we read that the number of doctors who advise would fall to 207 on 1 January. We do not think that is a good thing. The counseling doctors, together with the long-term sick, can see what options are available. Also ensure a human approach, without a great deal of red tape. Don't forget that contacts on the field of work show that a lot of long-term sick people want to work, but don't want to go back to their previous work and rather make a career switch. A good career guidance is therefore a must here. It may also be recommended that the compensation for restarters should not be drastically removed. This remuneration could be an incentive to take the sometimes difficult steps in changing jobs, knowing that in the long term everyone will get better.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u27	Madam President, I refer to the written version of my oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u28	Madam President, Mrs Van Peel, I think it is a bad habit to refer to the written record. A citizen should be able to listen to what we are saying. There may not be many citizens who do that, but a citizen should be able to hear questions and answers. When reference is made to the question, after which I give an answer, a citizen has nothing to do with it. I am very sorry that this is accepted here. I accept the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, and I do not have anything to say about it, but personally I would never have wished that one could just mention a number of questions here. It can't be. We must be able to understand what this is about. I had to get it off my chest for a while, as a former Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u29	Mrs Van Peel, with regard to registration and statistics, the RIZIV asked the National Intermutualist College to examine how to better record the cases in which the counseling doctor finds an accident committed intentionally by the insured person. Since 2019, the Medical Board for Invalidity of the RIZIV has not taken a decision refusing the disability benefits due to an intentional error. More fundamentally, I honestly do not think that it is necessary to adapt the rules or policy practice. The Court of Cassation has already clearly defined the manner in which the notion of "intentionally committed error' is to be interpreted. The Court of Cassation held that the notion of error intentionally committed does not mean that the damage must have been intentionally caused for the purpose of receiving benefits. The benefits must be refused if the error causing the State of incapacity for work was committed intentionally by the person entitled, even if he did not wish to have the consequences. I refer to the judgment of the Court of Cassation of 2 March 2009. It is clear that this notion must be interpreted very strictly, on the basis of an in-depth factual analysis. It is not enough to establish a serious error on the part of the insured person; it must also have been deliberately committed by the insured person. For example, I can illustrate that in the past an incapacity for work was already considered as a result of a deliberate mistake when a Syrian warrior was recognised as unfit for work as a result of injuries suffered during the civil war in Syria, as well as when an insured person provoked a fight in a café, by acting brutally towards other customers, and was injured in that fight itself, resulting in incapacity for work. Since the provision itself and the clarification made by the Court of Cassation are sufficiently well known, no additional directives are necessary. There is always a need for a concrete analysis of the actual situation. Moreover, such an analysis cannot be included in specific directives, since they would never be exhaustive enough to include all the cases of exclusion or containment in question. It will always be an evaluation of the facts situation. The guidelines for this purpose are sufficiently communicated to all concerned, including on the basis of this judgment in cassation. I am not in favour of the slope to deprive the doctor of the authority to judge the intentional nature of the error committed. The Medical Board for Invalidity may also, when assessing the entry into service of invalidity or the extension of invalidity, subsequently establish that the incapacity for work is the result of an error committed intentionally, possibly against a previous decision of the medical adviser.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u30	It's a difficult story. I understand that you really want to look at file-by-file here, that it is difficult to work with parameters, for example. Although I hope it doesn't happen too often, it is striking that it hasn't been established anywhere since 2019. That seems unlikely to me. The examples you gave are also linked to court cases. There it was clear that the sickness fund could only speak of a deliberate error. This piece of legislation is going to get a little snowy in practice. Hopefully it doesn't involve 500 cases a year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u31	Minister, with reference to the references to written questions, I am with you in mind. This practice was born at the beginning of the pandemic. In the Health and Social Affairs Committees, there were so many questions that we found it difficult to get the answers. When we go to the orange or green period, we may be able to go back to more limited question sessions and work that is easier to read from outside.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u32	Minister, when discussing the provisional arrangements for association work, I already called on you last year to delete the deadline of 31 December 2021. In this way, the pressure would not be on the associations, but on Parliament to speed up the final arrangements for association work which had already been announced. If that had been the case, the associations would have been in different papers than they are today. Sports clubs and cultural associations raised the alarm in the past week because of the continuing uncertainty about the new rules for association workers. A definitive settlement was promised before 2022, but until everything has been published, legal uncertainty continues. In the meantime, I have noticed that a draft law on this subject would be submitted in the near future. I have the following questions for the Minister: Mr Minister, can you give us an update on the scheme? On the website associationwerk.be the Dimona adjustments have been announced for some time, as well as the declarations to be made. What's the status on this? Have you consulted the Minister of Finance on the tax aspect, and if so, what are the results of these discussions? When will you clearly communicate to the sector concerned? After all, it concerns 45,000 clubs and associations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u33	Minister, you may understand that I too have a number of questions. The provisional arrangement expired at the end of last year. On 16 December 2021, I reviewed the situation in this dossier in plenary. An opinion from the Data Protection Authority was still awaited, but the RSZ would ensure clear communication and give instructions to associations working with association workers. We were all aware that the publication of the relevant law would be too late, which in itself should not cause any problems. It is now February and there is still no draft law. The sectors where the union work is possible therefore have the alarm bell sound. The associations really do not dare to use their association workers at the moment, because they fear having tax or other problems afterwards. That's a shame, of course. What is the state of play of a definitive legislation governing the work of associations? When will the bill be submitted to Parliament? I know it's finished. What is the timetable for social affairs, employment and finance? Of course, it belongs to three ministers. Does the RSZ keep track of how many associations and association workers use the scheme? Is it true that all of this remains well below expectations for the time being because there is uncertainty about the legislative framework? What will you do to reassure the associations? Are you in consultation with your colleagues responsible for Work and Finance?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u34	Mr Minister, an article in De Standaard shows that the new and definitive arrangements for association work are in place. The Council of State is critical of the tax section. The tax rate of 10% is low and appears to discriminate against the self-employed. After all, they have to pay the full amount of taxes. The funny thing was that the bosses of the sports sector from the beginning complained that they also had to pay 10% taxes on top of the reduced social security contributions. They thought it was too much. Now, according to the Council of State, this is not enough. In other words, the Council of State warns against the downward pressure imposed by such special arrangements on the regular statutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u35	You also think this is too little, don't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u36	I won't answer that now. Because correct contributions and taxes are still paid on the regular statutes, they may become less attractive. Can associations currently employ association workers? What statutes or contracts do you currently recommend to them? Can you give Parliament the relevant opinion of the Council of State? Are you prepared to contact the relevant regional ministers for Sport and Culture so that they too take responsibility for making extra semi-professional forces in the sport sector and in the socio-cultural sector feasible and affordable?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u37	The final settlement approved by the government at the end of November last year should avoid re-launching associations in the direction of undeclared work. I am actually pleased that we have worked out a good and robust framework together, so that enthusiastic people in the sports sector and the socio-cultural sector can give the best of themselves and earn something in the future without putting too much burden on them. The final settlement began on 1 January this year. The Royal Decree amending the relevant Article 17 of the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969 was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 30 December 2021. This decision provides that workers in the sports sector can work up to 450 hours a year and in the socio-cultural sector up to 300 hours a year without employers' and employees' contributions being due. In order to be able to work under this scheme, an employment contract must therefore be concluded. In addition, there is indeed a need to change labour law and social security by law. This draft law has now been submitted to the Chamber and will therefore be discussed in this committee in the near future. The Council of Ministers also adopted a draft tax bill on 23 December. This provides that income from association work is taxed at a separate rate of 10%. Minister Van Peteghem can explain more about the state of play of this bill and the opinion of the Council of State on it. As I replied to your question at the end of last year, Mrs De Jonge, the RSZ started to develop its application in December to indicate the performance, which is actually to be consulted in the context of Dimona and the hours worked, with e-mail address article17@work. According to the latest planning of the RSZ, both applications will be operational at the beginning of April. Performance delivered from 1 January is not yet available. For this purpose, Dimona returns will have to be made retroactively. That was also the case with the start-up of the temporary scheme for 2021. The representatives of the umbrella federations of sports and socio-cultural associations were informed about this. Even now, the RSZ will support and assist the associations, so that they can make their declaration correctly. Finally, I would like to stress that, at the end of December, the RSZ already communicated the new scheme through the association work website.be and the RSZ instructions to employers. The RSZ also informed the relevant umbrella organisations by mail. Once the mentioned legal amendments have been approved, the RSZ, in cooperation with the other administrations concerned, will update the information already made available.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u38	Mr Minister, I am kicking in an open door, but the unrest among associations is still great, even if the dome associations had received an e-mail. Those same dome associations pulled the alarm in the newspapers this week. They are aware that there will be a solution, but for associations that have to pay attention, the details are important. They want to know the details before they make decisions. After all, they make annual planning and record their trainers for the next six months or year. It is precisely the details that need to be dealt with, both in the area of taxation and in the area of social security. Indeed, today at the Conference of Presidents, it was announced that the draft would be added to the agenda for consideration tomorrow. We look forward to it, but we can't get around the fact that it's all too late for the Dimona declaration at the beginning of April, among other things. We should have listened better in December last year and voted for my amendment, so that the expiry date of the provisional regulation was deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u39	Minister, there's a bill ready, but we haven't seen it yet. For its results, you have consulted the sector thoroughly. That has been extremely important, but this week it was clear that there were some concerns, especially with regard to taxation. It is therefore important to clarify quickly so that the associations have certainty. These are thousands of teachers, millions of people who can receive quality training, because those teachers have to follow training and further training. They're the beating heart of a union. Moreover, it must remain affordable for associations and association workers. I hope we get to see the documents soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u40	Minister, because of the lack of support from the regions, the associations are in trouble. They do not have the means to pay a decent wage and pay higher taxes on it. It is always the same story: the regions save and provide less resources. Then the federal government has to regulate a deviation and work in a solution-oriented manner. That's not the way we have to work. We urgently need to look at how we will solve this, because this is not a good situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u41	Minister, in the last week the commercial housing centres came up with very negative news. In certain commercial rest homes basic care is not guaranteed. However, the elderly pay very high daily prices, which can amount to 4,000 euros on a monthly basis. In Flanders, 15 residential care centres are on the blacklist of the Health Inspectorate. In addition, commercial operators employ 20% fewer staff than public residential care centres. The most disturbing was the raid at two residences in Geraardsbergen, with the urgent evacuation of 17 caring elderly people. The operator, a so-called care strategist, has been apprehended. At the same time, you presented a draft law in Parliament which allows commercial housing centres to employ volunteers. You did not go into the PVDA proposal to make certain conditions. Minister, were there any volunteers active in the residential care centres under the supervision of the Flemish Health Inspectorate in 2020 and 2021? If so, how many volunteers are involved and how many rest homes? Can you give those figures also for Brussels and Wallonia? Are you prepared to impose conditions for the use of volunteers in these profit-driven institutions? Are you prepared to support a parliamentary initiative along these lines?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u42	Mr Colebunders, I would like to begin by saying very clearly that I fully share the indignation about the abuses in some residential care centres. We have indeed discussed the temporary lifting of the ban on the use of volunteers in commercial rest homes at the last meeting of the Social Affairs Committee. I said at the time that it was an exception to the basic principle of the Voluntary Act, namely that voluntary work is only allowed in non-profit organisations or actual associations, but not in the private sector. I have said that I felt that this commitment of volunteers was justified in these exceptional times, but if that proves to be irresponsible, then we will of course not continue with this measure. On the occasion of the fourth and fifth wave, we decided to make that effort possible again. During the discussion of the draft law, I also said that there is no obligation to report volunteering, not to the RSZ, nor to the tax authorities. The Secretariat of the High Council for Volunteers does not have any data, so we do not really have a global view of the use of volunteers in private rest homes. Inspections are, of course, the responsibility of the sub-areas, but I have asked the representatives of the umbrella organisations of the private housing centres to give me some figures on the use of volunteers if possible. As I said in the Chamber last week, Mr Vlozo questioned his members and replied to 52% of the Members. This shows that during the first phase of the health crisis in 2020, a total of 536 volunteers helped in a residential care centre. In 2021, 1,517 volunteers were involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for those figures. However, the problem has still not been solved. The raid in Geraardsbergen clearly took place not in a commercial residential care centre but in a so-called cohousing project. Before that, they were backup homes. There are therefore serious questions in this respect. What this shows above all is how dangerous it is to put our care for the elderly in the hands of entrepreneurs who are only looking for profit. Besides, it's not just happening here, you've seen the files from France. In this case, the so-called care strategist simply came from the hospitality and the real estate sector. The real estate sector can just walk into the healthcare sector at that level. This brings me to the main point, which is why commercial homes should not use volunteers in normal circumstances. Today it becomes clear why, except for the colleagues from Open Vld, I noticed last week. These private institutions have structurally too few staff, 20% less, and if there are any problems with the services, this is more likely to be the case with them. I continue to support the choice of temporarily allowing volunteers in this corona crisis, for the sake of the elderly and the care staff, but there should be clearer conditions, at least for rest homes supervised by the Regional Health Inspectorate. Minister, I feel that you are refusing to accept your responsibility here. To be honest, I find that incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u44	Madam President, I wanted to refer to the written questions, but given the attitude of the minister, I would not dare. I'm afraid there's a resurgence! Mr Minister, on 12 January, in reply to my question concerning Caterpillar's invalids, victims of an illegal administrative practice of INAMI, you stated that, in a judgment of 22 November 2021, the French-speaking labour court in Brussels held that the administrative practice of INAMI consisting of converting the extralegal compensation not expressed into working time, paid on the occasion of the termination of the employment contract, in a period during which the right to invalidity benefits is refused, has no legal and regulatory basis, and must therefore be ruled out. The consequence of this judgement is that all decisions taken on the basis of this administrative practice of INAMI do not have a legal basis and should therefore be annulled. It is therefore not just the workers of Caterpillar who are concerned. I have received testimony from workers from other companies who are suffering the same injustice. Minister, since when did INAMI apply this administrative practice? How many workers have been affected by a decision to suspend entitlement to compensation or to recover compensation in application of this administrative practice? How many employers are affected by the payment to a worker with a work incapacity of an allowance not expressed in terms of working time paid on the occasion of the termination of the employment contract? What is the total number of daily allowances that holders could not receive as a result of this administrative practice? What is the amount of these allowances? Can you confirm that this administrative practice is now over? Has a circular or official decision been notified to the national mutual societies to confirm that this administrative practice can no longer be applied? Have you given instructions to INAMI that all decisions taken on the basis of this administrative practice be overturned? Let me turn to my second question. On 12 January, you also replied that a review of the files would take place for the seven persons directly concerned by the judgement of 22 November 2021 and that the other cases pending before the courts and/or undisputed would be subject to control measures in a second stage. Minister, can you confirm to me that the situation has been regularized for the seven persons affected by the judgment of November 22, 2021? Can you tell me what the control measures are for files pending before the courts or not in dispute? What is the status of these controls? Did you give instructions to INAMI to search for the relevant files and promptly pay the allowances due to unjustly penalized incumbents? Finally, when will all files be regularized?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u45	Mr D'Amico, I confirm my willingness to define by means of a royal decree a clear legal framework in response to the problem raised, which concerns, in particular, severance benefits not expressed in terms of working time and which therefore require conversion to working time. This draft text will be discussed in the Insurance Management Committee, composed of members representing the social partners and mutual insurance bodies. My administration is already in contact with the representatives of mutual insurance organizations present in the National Intermutualism College and several meetings have been held on this subject. My intention is to be able to align the regulation of unemployment insurance with that of unemployment insurance on the basis of an analogy with regard to the question of the cumulation of incapacity for work benefits and the compensation granted as a result of the termination of the employment contract. This harmonisation will thus ensure uniform treatment of unemployed and incapacity-for-work insured persons. It remains to continue to analyse the situations concerned in the light of this new positioning and to work with my administration to identify them and the answers that can be formulated. I can already confirm to you that a review of the files of the persons (seven in total) who were the subject of the judgment of 22 November 2021 mentioned in your question will indeed take place in the sense laid down by this court, namely an authorized cumulation with compensation for incapacity for work and therefore more recovery of the compensation awarded. No appeal has been brought by my administration and this judgement has therefore become final. The seven persons concerned will be regularized by their mutual affiliation. Finally, with regard to the various questions asked, I confirm that my administration is continuing their analysis in collaboration with mutual insurance organizations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u46	If INAMI had shown proactivity, you might have been able to provide me with all the information requested. I therefore ask you to give clear instructions to INAMI, so that it can work to ensure that all those who have been victims of its illegal administrative practice quickly recover the compensation to which they are entitled. The fact that a social security institution has betrayed the trust of citizens by acting illegally is very serious. The reaction must therefore be commensurate with the seriousness of the facts. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u47	New figures show that almost 21,000 applications for recognition of COOVID-19 as an occupational disease have been submitted to Fedris since the end of March 2020. This led to 14.257 positive decisions, which is slightly more than two out of three. According to the newspaper L'Avenir there were mainly positive advice in files of laundry staff, hairdressers, cooks, cleaning services managers, child caregivers, guards, firefighters and police officers. Can you confirm these numbers? Can you list the 20 most affected sectors or professions? Are there sectors with remarkably many negative opinions? If so, which one? What are the main reasons for negative opinions? Finally, how many negative opinions were the subject of an appeal or complaint?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u48	As an annex to my answer, I have quite complex tables, with a lot of numbers and details. They're interesting, so I suggest I have them delivered to you through the secretariat. You will then have a lot of data. First of all, there is the regulation for people working in health care who are clearly at increased risk of being infected by the virus. They shall be entitled to compensation for occupational disease if the infection may be medically related to the risky occupational activity. This scheme also applies to students and students undergoing an internship. In particular, it concerns occupational disease code 1.404.03. On 8 February 2022 20,207 applications had been received for this target group, of which 12,606 with positive decisions. You will find the 20 most affected professions among the employees in this target group who have been given a positive decision and the 20 most affected professions who have been given negative decisions in a table which I will provide to the secretariat. You will see that with almost 6,400 recognitions, which are more than half of the recognitions, it is mainly about nursing staff. In addition, you will see in another table that there were 2,600 negative decisions for that code. The table lists the reasons for that negative decision. There were legal disputes before that code nine. Then there were employees with COVID-19 who worked in key sectors or essential services and who worked there during the period from 18 March to 17 May. That's an occupational disease with code 1,404.04. Until 8 February 2022, 428 applications were received for that target group and 188 positive decisions were made. You will also find the ten most affected occupations of the employees within the target group who received a positive decision in a table which I will give you. There have been 97 negative decisions so far. The list of the main professions and the main reasons can also be found in a table which I will provide to you. For code 1,404.04 there were two legal decisions. Thirdly, there are applications submitted under the open system. Until 8 February 2022, 406 applications were received for that target group, with 317 negative decisions. Here too, I will provide the professions with the most negative decisions and the main reasons for doing so through the secretariat. There was one legal dispute here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u49	Mr Minister, I am waiting hopefully for the tables, but it seems natural to me that the people who have continued to work in the front line of the corona crisis, who have kept the country straight and who have had the misfortune of getting covid, can call on a safety net. We are therefore satisfied with this, but we will continue to follow up on the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic694x.u50	This concludes our day's work. Thank you, Minister, for your answers.
