ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u1	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, may I make a proposal for these combined questions? There's 12 of them in total. Can we get the Minister to reply immediately, after which a reply can follow if he so wishes? There is no live stream and no images are captured. I think that today's content is the most important, as should always be the case. Is everyone okay with that? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u2	Mr President, I assume that the questions of the Members present will be included in the report?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u3	That's right. The colleagues Depoortere, Taquin, Demon, Dillen, Boukili and Matz are absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u4	Dear Minister On 16 June last, the Court of Auditors proposed its audit on basic training for police inspectors, which is essential for the proper functioning of the integrated police. The report doesn't look right. For example, there could be no homogeneous training or equivalent validation of the knowledge acquired in all schools. Regulatory quality standards cannot be met in the absence of a centralised framework. The resources available vary widely from school to school. And the Federal Police have no idea the total cost of the training per candidate. However, there is also light at the end of the tunnel. For example, data collection on multi-annual needs in the field of operational staff has improved significantly. As a result, the number of aspirants to be recruited is refined and the needs of the Federal Police can also be taken into account. As I can read the report, this report seems to relate mainly to the period up to 2020. It should be noted that an action plan for training was planned in 2021-2022, which would include analysis of the educational modules with a view to ensuring a more uniform training of inspectors for all schools. I have the following questions, Madam Minister: Have you taken note of the audit of the Court of Auditors and what were your initial findings? An audit puts the finger on the wound, but with the positive intention to remedy where possible. Where do you think much progress can be made in the short term? It is said that it is not possible to guarantee uniform training in all schools. Are there any schools that score very well? If so, which ones are they? And where do they make the difference? Is it on the basis of this report that you might consider turning police training into a bachelors training course? Can you give us any results on the training action plan that would come in 2021-2022? Why do the resources made available differ from school to school? And what is the reason why the Federal Police have no idea of the total cost of the training per candidate?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u5	Mr President, thank you for your efficiency. This indeed allows us to discuss a very important issue for the future of our country and for our security. In a sector where people are responsible for the safety of our society, adequate and quality training is essential. In the first place, therefore, our attention is focused on the content and quality of the basic training of our police inspectors. The need to recruit additional aspirants should under no circumstances, as far as I am concerned, lead to a reduction in quality. This applies both to the selection and to the training of future police inspectors. We know that we are in this context in a changing social situation. There are many evolutions and there are increased expectations from society regarding the police and security services and many new challenges. That is why I am in favour of extending basic police training, not to extend it in itself, but to respond to the challenges we are experiencing with regard to the police organisation. As far as I am concerned, this extension is also justified because training as police inspector or police officer should not be limited to mastering purely police knowledge, skills, techniques and legislation, but should also include social, personal and communicative skills. Training and training these kinds of things takes time, and it cannot be repeated in a limited number of hours. Moreover, I have been able to observe and discuss this during two foreign work visits which I have made to Helsinki, among others, and last Monday to Berlin. I learned there that police training is much longer than in our country and that special attention is paid to training in the culture, standards and values of the police organisation, much more than to pure techniques and legislation, where they are passed on to practice and the actual working environment. I am therefore in favour of the coordination of police training with the organisation of regular higher education. I believe that we need to work towards a renewal of the vision of police education. I'm working on that vision with experts. In addition, this vision is also being considered from the ground up, with at least a focus on the recognition of police training in accordance with the Copenhagen and Bologna European agreements. A reform of education will certainly require choices, for example on the demand for the reimbursement of the aspirants during training. These are relevant and legitimate questions, but it is too early to go into them now, because this needs to be further analysed. We haven't even made a final decision on the duration, so that kind of question needs to be considered together. It goes without saying that an orientation of basic training for police inspectors to regular education must also be aligned with the Flemish, French and German-speaking Communities, with a view to ensuring uniformity, quality, content and competence because there must be equality between all police inspectors who will subsequently be employed within the integrated police force. Subscribing to or aligning police training with regular education could give graduates the advantage of a richer range of career prospects, as the diplomas could then be recognised more widely than only within the police organisation. I am therefore in favour of longer training. With regard to a real embedding in mainstream education, I would like to stress once again that the advantages and disadvantages of this need to be further analysed. The extension as such is a more obvious issue than the precise structure or embedding in ordinary higher education. The average duration of selection is 24 weeks, but the ambition is, thanks to the new concept of selection and recruitment, to reduce the duration to 18 weeks. In principle, the duration of basic training is 12 months. The Court of Auditors' recent audit report sets out the details at this level and points out that 38 % of applicants remain 13 to 14 months in training, 4.2 % between 14 and 20 months and 1.4 % more than 20 months. These figures can be explained by the second sessions, the requests for a stay and the possibility of starting over all or part of the time in case of failure. I would like to point out that at the end of their training, police officers are subject to a probationary period of 6 months in principle within their assignment unit. It is premature to elaborate on the modules that would be extended or integrated into basic training, since the lengthening of training is still to be considered. I would like to point out that, in the immediate future, a project is under way to harmonise and update the contents of the learnings of cluster cards. This project is carried out taking into account the existing legal framework, i.e. an overall duration of 12 months and a number of clusters set at 15. This project is led by the Federal Police Personnel Directorate in collaboration with the Federal Police Directorates, the Standing Commission on Local Police and the Police Schools. The dialogues between partners take place in clusters according to a planned schedule throughout the year 2022. The concrete implementation of the work will take place after validation of the Integrated Police Coordination Committee currently set at the end of the first half of 2023. At the time of implementation, it was decided not to incorporate a fast track in view of the new selection concept. While the recruitment and selection services of the federal police are able to maintain short deadlines and meet their goals of incorporating winners of the selection, the added value of fast tracks is greatly reduced. In relation to the questions relating to the audit of the Court of Auditors, I would like to emphasise that, of course, I have read the audit with great attention, since it makes an inventory of the shortcomings, but also of the improvements to the initial training. Recommendations are formulated in the audit. The progress made in police education in recent years is also recognised. In addition to the action plan mentioned in the Court of Auditors' report, I asked the management of the staff of the federal police to provide me with a more specific action plan to respond to the recommendations of that audit. I can already emphasise, as we discussed earlier, that the management agreements with the recognised police schools are in progress. That was the intention, because these management contracts could help to ensure that the planning of recruitment and the classes of police education take better account of the specific realities and difficulties of the schools. Moreover, they can ensure that the quality requirements that we should set for our police education can be better achieved. In addition, at my initiative, a new service is being set up for the management of police training at the level of the management of the staff of the federal police. Pending the implementation of a renewed vision of police education, this service will be able to further coordinate the quality of training and harmonisation. The service will play an important role in centralising police training policies, coordinating police schools' actions, quality control and quality control. Work is also under way on the standardisation and updating of learning objectives, as well as on the content by cluster of basic training for police inspectors. Both the federal police and the permanent committee for local police and police schools are involved in that process. I would like to clarify that there is no question in the audit that certain police schools would train prospective police officers better or worse than other police schools, nor are there differences in scores or levels between them. However, the report points out a lack of harmonisation and differences in the content of actual learning, the method of recruiting teachers, the techniques taught or the nature of the material used and, inter alia, the multitude of police teachers involved. At present, each police school has its own guidelines on the selection and recruitment of guest lecturers. Federal trainers, who are made available by the federal police, can be selected in consultation with the directors of the schools concerned. In any event, the selection and recruitment of teaching staff in the future, as recommended by the Court of Auditors, will be part of a wider action plan. It is also necessary to increase the attractiveness and appreciation of the role of teacher in a police school and to clarify the procedures for selecting teachers so that we can also ensure the quality of education. You know that the federal subsidy for police schools is only part of the funding of police education. The other part is adapted, among other things, by the provinces. This may lead to differences in the financial resources of police schools. As the Court of Auditors points out in its report, the recognised schools also have resources from the provincial authorities or, where appropriate, from the Brussels Capital Region, which lead to differences and no clear amount can be attributed to the cost of training per prospective police inspector. The number of inspectors aspirants incorporated does not necessarily correspond to the number of winners. Persons who have successfully completed the selection process are invited to participate in the training but, for various reasons, some are not incorporated. The target of 1,600 inspectors recruited per year was set only from 2021, which explains why the Court of Auditors refers to the target of 1,400 inspectors recruited. Every effort will be made to achieve the target of 1,600 inspectors this year. Ladies and gentlemen, let me be clear: I am convinced that we must send well-educated police inspectors out into the streets, because they must be resilient and be able to cope with the many challenges in our society today. This process, the adjustments to police training, is obviously not about one night ice and will not be able to be introduced overnight. However, I am firmly convinced, on the basis of the discussions I have had over the last few months, that we need to do so and that we need to take concrete steps in this legislature to work on the training of the police of the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u6	Madam Secretary, you have answered many of my questions. Of course, it's a bit of a wait-and-see. We need to look at what steps are really feasible. Time is limited in that respect, when I look only at this legislature, in order to be able to change all these things. You said that you want to change a number of things, but above all there will be a great deal to be done with all the regional authorities, who are the founders of education, before we can go to that renewal of the vision. Steps will have to be taken as soon as possible. It is, of course, true that the expectations for the police are constantly increasing. An increase in training is therefore really justified, because quality training as a police inspector is, of course, the basis of a safe society. The only question that has not really been answered is what do you think of working in such training with the necessary specializations, such as detectives or district police? Maybe it was just too early to answer this question. The Court of Auditors has carried out an audit. An audit always puts the finger on the wound, but with the positive intention to be able to remedy where possible. I understand that there are many differences between the provinces in terms of teachers and guidelines. I've been in education myself. At the school where I taught, an inspection was carried out and a particular class had scored worse. The inspector said that a child should be lucky enough to get into the classroom of certain teachers. Something similar is the case here. It is therefore important that we can offer the same thing everywhere. The guidelines for guest lecturers should therefore be more uniform. Has the vision to extend education come before or after the report? That's not entirely clear to me. It's kind of the chicken's question or the egg's. In any case, we support the extension of police training. If we want to change something, we must act quickly now, because the legislature is approaching its end.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u7	Thank you, Mr Moyaers. Mr Depoostere is unfortunately ill and has apologized. Mrs Taquin also apologized. Mr. Demon is not here. I give the floor to Mrs Goethals.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u8	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer to my questions. Mr Moyaers has already mentioned many things I wanted to say. So I will not repeat these things. You talked about extending the training. I am not opposed to this in principle, but the first thing that is needed is funding, and it will not be obvious to judge it. After all, we know that the issue of financing is often a matter of sticking sticks in the wheels. This funding would be better planned in advance. That's not easy, but that's not the point. In any case, these matters should be linked to each other, which makes sense to me. It is also important to achieve uniformity of trainers and supervisors for the training of the recruits. They all deserve the same education. The action plan you are drawing up must be good and comprehensive enough to respond to as many comments as possible from the Court of Auditors. There should be no numbering, because every day it takes longer is a day too much for our recruits, for the police and for our safety in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u9	Madam Secretary, I was a little late. I wasn't expecting your answer so soon. I had to come from another committee in the Forum building and it was time to find the room. Nevertheless, I have been able to hear most of your answer. I have two comments to make. Firstly, as regards the transition to longer training, particularly Bachelor's Master's degree, you know that our group is in favour of this. I also have questions about the Court of Auditors' audit report. Of course, the debate on police training is not new. It's something we've been talking about for years. There have already been hearings in the Chamber in 2012. The conclusion was that the fact that a police officer does not have a Bachelor's or Master's programme involves a lot of limitations, as for side-intromers. Today we are discussing the need for people to have a long career and work for up to 65 years. If they want to move to another industry, police officers are hampered by the fact that they do not have that diploma. So, Madam Minister, we must get to work quickly on this training. I therefore hope that we will be able to do so during the present legislature. Perhaps we can double the basic training for a while and start a Bachelor's programme. At the universities, in the faculty of Criminology, there is a lot of expertise to start quickly. It is absolutely important that we do not continue to debate this for many years. The audit report reveals the same pain points that appeared ten years ago. Once again, these are training, monitoring of the quality and uniformity of police training. It's amazing they're still coming back in the report. What has struck me above all is the lack of real information collected by the federal police. When the information is available, there is a lack of systematic processing. How much does the training cost per candidate? How long does an education take? What is the deadline between selection and recruitment? These are things that we need to be able to see quickly, so that basic training can already be used in a high quality manner. What also struck me is the success rates, which are also a concern. We see very high success rates, but of course we want everyone in training to be able to offer quality. I hear the federal police would even be in favour of further easing for the benefit of the success rates. It talks about relaxing the rules for block 1, although block 1 deals with very essential issues, such as the law on police office, police deontology and the introduction to law. That theoretical knowledge is indispensable to fill in the office. I am therefore in favour of not relaxing in this area. The selection must be an effective selection, not just a pro-formage process. The report also identifies problems with workplace learning. There too, improvements must be made quickly. Let me reread your answer. I wish you every success so that this legislature can be the first stone of this new and reformed police training.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u10	Minister, I would like to thank you for the quality of your answer. I obviously share your desire to reform the training of our police officers in order to be able to respond to the many challenges facing our society. The vision of regular higher education with regard to the length of training is an interesting one, from the moment when the three Communities can agree on content and skills. As we can see, we are at the beginning of the process of analysis and reflection. I will therefore certainly return to you at a later stage on the ambitious objectives that have been expressed. Let me draw your attention to two things, minister. This training is necessary, but recruitment is also essential. A good synergy must therefore be found between quality, duration of training and the need for recruitment. Consultation with the social partners and other levels of government should also be encouraged.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u11	Madam Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u12	Annex 5 of the draft Royal Decree defines the ratio of the resources laid down by the municipalities and the federal government for the application of the law. This shows that, on 31 December 2007, the municipalities contributed 92,25% on average and the federal government contributed 7,75% to the expenditure of the municipal fire services. Mind you, that was the situation on 31 December 2007 and says nothing about future relations. The associations of cities and municipalities are closely involved in the design of KB. They were represented in the working group set up by the Civil Security Advisory Committee to establish the revenue and expenditure items taken into account in the calculation of the ratio between the resources of the municipalities and those of the federal government. They were also invited to deliver an opinion on a draft decision. As far as possible, account has been taken of the comments made by the associations. For example, requests to justify certain calculation criteria or to set a time limit within which the ratio should be recalculated have been met. The requests which were outside the scope of the strict implementation of the abovementioned Article 67 (2) could not be met. Among other things, it concerned amending the requests for Article 67, °2 or taking into account the expenditure incurred by the municipalities after the entry into force of the zones, since Article 67, °2 provides that the ratio should be fixed by 31 December 2007. In the meantime, I have also received the opinion of the Legislative Section of the Council of State, after which some limited technical adjustments have been made. The KB was then signed by the King and myself and delivered to the services of the Belgian Official Journal with a view to its early publication. According to the general rule, it will enter into force on the tenth day following publication in the Belgian Official Journal. That was not an easy exercise, all the more so because the theological intention to take into account the 2007 expenditure of the KB-gender had to be considered. We certainly hope that, in view of our work in advance and the extensive consultations, we have now found a new balance and clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u13	I hope so with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u14	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Delizée's 55028658C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u15	"Madam Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u16	"Madam Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your response."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u18	"Madam Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your response."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u20	"Madam Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your response."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u22	"Madam Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u23	In advance, I thank you, Madam Minister, for your response."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u24	Mr Senesael, the use of bodycams by the police is currently covered by the provisions on the general use of cameras by the police, as provided for in the Police Function Act. My services have read the content of both the opinions of the police information monitoring body (COC) and the results of the KU Leuven study. Opinions on cameras and in particular "piedon" cameras were discussed by a working group established within the Integrated Police which resulted in a bill in which most of the concerns were discussed and several points clarified. This project is currently under consideration in my office and that of the Minister of Justice. There will still be some adjustments to be made once the amendment to the Act is implemented. These adjustments relate mainly to the issue of pre-registrations, the use of bodycams in the event of prosecution in the territory of other police areas and the retention period of the records. Given the stage of development in which the project is located, I cannot say more about it. However, I can assure you that the various observations of the COC and the Catholic University of Leuven are taken into account and monitored. My colleague the Minister of Justice and I have the ambition to have this bill passed by the Council of Ministers in the near future and then to submit it to Parliament for discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand that we are still in the expectation until the adjustments have been found between your firm and that of Justice. We will therefore return to you at the beginning of the year for follow-up on this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u26	Mr Senesael, with regard to trust in our police services, I would like first of all to stress that I am particularly committed to building trust between young people and the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u27	The "Mutual Respect" campaign and the resulting "Kindtoets" project are some of the initiatives I have proposed to narrow the gap between citizens and more specifically between young people and the police. By raising awareness, informing and taking initiatives to organize and facilitate a positive dialogue, my administration is trying to bring citizens and the professions closer to security. With regard to the first aspect of your question, in which you refer to a recent increase in attempts to attack the syringe or by ingestion of drugs, the police services do not yet have a quantitative view of the complaints lodged for the year 2020. With regard to the integrated police, among the many training courses dealing with specific problems that field police officers have to deal with, there are training courses for victims of sexual violence and more specifically for victims of sexual violence. According to figures available since 2006, an average of 590 members per year have been trained. These trainings focus on field police officers, i.e. inspectors and principal inspectors, i.e. 87 per cent of participants. For the years 2020, 2021 and 2022, as many as 14 different courses were given to 1,480 members. As part of these trainings, efforts are being made to better target current events. Here I am thinking in particular of the trainings Street Harassment and Sexism on a daily basis or Inspector Mors (sexual abuse centre) which account for 65 per cent of the participations. Beyond quality, it should be noted that this represents an effort of 442,500 hours of training devoted by our members to this topic, or an average of 28.7 hours per trained member. Finally, we are not releasing our efforts since training sessions are already scheduled for the end of the year. With regard to the phenomenon of transgressive sexual behaviour in the context of the night life that you have reported, the Guardianship Training Commission chaired by my administration is looking at training for the guarding staff. The initiative was taken to determine the extent to which mandatory training of child care workers can be complemented by a course focusing on the following characteristics: early recognition and detection of transgressive behaviour; ability to respond to transgressive behaviour; and proper reception of the victim and referral to the right authorities. These aspects will be included in the competency profile to which these custodians will have to correspond. Discussions and work in this regard are still under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u28	Madam Minister, thank you for all these helpful clarifications and the quality of your response. It is a matter of particular interest to you and I welcome it. For my part, I make it a priority. Thank you for the follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u29	Mr Senesael, concerning alerts sent to rescue zones, emergency centres 112 in Luxembourg, Liège, Namur, Hainaut, Limburg and Antwerp are already working with the supra-provincial architecture. Until now, we have received little or no complaints about address searches. It was in May 2022 that the Hainaut emergency plant began to use the new dispatch tool and the problems multiplied. The new software too often sent unilingual addresses instead of bilingual and even in a language that was not the recipient's. In the meantime, a solution has been found and implemented to solve the problem. But in exceptional circumstances, as in the case of a Flemish province which would directly mobilise resources in the territory of a Walloon province, the solution is not without flaws. In the short term and as a definitive solution, we will transmit addresses in both languages in the facilitated municipalities but for this, ambulance services will have to update their radio with a minimum version of the firmware supporting more than 140 characters. We have noticed that the current version of firmware is often between five and ten years old. An eternity in computer science! Services that did not wish to upgrade will receive 140-character cut text messages. It is likely that they will not receive all the additional information following the address, but a safety loop is provided by the operators of emergency stations 112 who systematically contact the services by radio or telephone.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u30	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u31	I now come to the question of discrimination in the police. Mr Senesael, as regards the first aspect of your question, I cannot comment on the situation in the Antwerp police zone since, as you mentioned, a judicial procedure is under way. If the facts are proven, it is clear that sanctions will have to be imposed. Analysis of the content of the training courses is under way to enable them to be updated. A protocol strengthening cooperation with ASBL Rainbow Cops Belgium was signed on the last International Day against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia. This protocol aims at a commitment in principle to seek, in partnership, possible synergies and complementarities for the benefit of the target group, while respecting the mission, vision and values of the above-mentioned organisations. In particular, the protocol states that ASBL Rainbow Cops Belgium LGBTQI+ Police will be able to use the channels and means of communication of the federal police to communicate its national initiatives in partnership with the Communications Directorate. The association is also authorized to use the infrastructure of the Federal Police for the organization of its assemblies, meetings, study days and formations free of charge. Improvements in the effective fight against hate crimes and hate speech towards staff are under way in the COL 13/2013 working group, which is advancing the improvement of the registration of hate crimes. The progress of actions to combat discrimination against LGBTQIA+ people mainly concerns recruitment where a profile analysis to detect any form of discrimination bias is planned. The follow-up of aspiring candidates is an issue that is being addressed by the services concerned. As far as basic and continuing training is concerned, there are various initiatives. In addition to the already existing training courses, with particular attention to professionalism and respect, the offer of training has been further strengthened. With regard to the Sexual Orientation Plan, Gender Identity or Expression and Sex Characteristics, the actions formulated by the Diversity Unit of the Federal Police Plan have already been the subject of consultation within the integrated police force and have been forwarded to my office. These, which have been integrated into the overall plan, have in turn been the subject of a first consultation of civil society. However, there are still a few points on which it is necessary to work to finalize the overall plan in order to implement it. It should be pointed out that certain actions concerning the federal police, particularly at the recruitment level, are already being implemented within the new recruitment process and at the level of police training.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u32	Thank you again for the quality of your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u33	Mr Senesael, regarding the introduction of meal vouchers for police personnel, I can tell you that the new meal voucher regime will come into effect on November 1st of this year. The distribution of meal vouchers will be effective as of 1 January 2023 for the integrated police personnel who opted for this system. The federal police support services have joined forces to implement this new meal voucher scheme, which is to adapt statutory texts, administrative procedures and information technology tools, and to implement a public procurement contract open to all police areas. A difficulty was indeed encountered with the appeal to the Council of State of a candidate not selected in the public procurement procedure. However, the Council of State has given the Federal Police the right, which can now move forward with the supplier selected for the distribution of meal vouchers. A Level A staff member was hired as a complement to the federal police to coordinate this new work process and to serve as an interface with the supplier. Integrated police personnel may, until November 1, 2022, express their wish to retain the meal allowance or to enter the new meal check scheme. As of November 1st of this year, all staff members who have not expressed a choice will automatically benefit from meal vouchers, along with those who have opted for this plan. After 1 November, only integrated police personnel who have chosen to retain meal allowances will be able to change their choice. All new entrants will automatically receive meal vouchers. As of 24 June, 34,754 integrated police personnel had already expressed their desire to receive meal vouchers; 14,256 staff members were still awaiting a ruling and 4,471 had preferred to retain their meal allowance. Each meal voucher has a nominal value of 6 euros. The employer's contribution amounts to EUR 4.91. Staff members will pay the minimum legal intervention of EUR 1.09 per meal voucher received. This intervention will be deducted from the net salary. A meal check will be provided by 7:36 a.m. service. The total planned investment to meet the total cost of this project is 2 138 570.94 euros for the year 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u34	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Thank you, Mr. President, for your mercy and broadness.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u35	Mrs Goethals, with regard to your first question, more specifically regarding the police, two public contracts relating to private security services were issued and notified. A first task concerns the security of highway parkings, a second task concerns the monitoring of the "complex polycenter Eratsin." The General Directorate for Security and Prevention systematically points out the possibilities offered by the Private Security Act and seeks to promote co-operation between the police and the private sector. For example, the recently established Private Security Advisory Council includes both the private security sector and the police, as well as other public sectors and academics, as well as permanent members. They are jointly involved in the further development of security policy. Several cities and municipalities have set up their own internal security services, as determined by the Act of 2 October 2017 regulating private and special security. However, the idea of setting up such an internal security service through a multi-municipal police zone under the statute of an internal independent agency is not known in any formal request or initiative and has not yet been legally examined. In this context, however, it is important that the powers of internal surveillance services, regardless of their legal form, are laid down in the Private Security Act. Any transfer of tasks from the police to the private sector will therefore always have to be carried out in accordance with that law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u36	Madam Secretary, the question I asked about an internal independent agency comes from my own chief of police. He had asked that question a number of times in the past, but it was never approved. So I got the information from him, but I can't say it was last year or two years ago. He said he never got the permission to do that. However, he sees great added value in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u37	Madam Minister, this question has everything to do with a brief but heavy rain shower with Pentecost. I was allowed to stand in the water with my boots. Afterwards, my firefighter did not call it reassuring that the same people, sometimes up to ten times, should be pumped out of the cellars, as these people do not protect themselves from water pollution. Madam Secretary, what can the federal government do to make people aware that they really need to do something to better protect themselves from possible water pollution? Could this possibly also be dealt with in the learning committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u38	Mr Moyaers, I was pleased to hear that you had a question about Pentecost. In relation to awareness raising and actions to encourage people to better protect themselves, I can refer to initiatives that are already being taken and will still be taken by the National Crisis Centre. We talked about this yesterday in the Committee on Health. Since 2016, the Crisis Centre has conducted campaigns on risks and emergencies in Belgium, covering all aspects of resilience and self-reliance in relation to risks and emergencies. Emergency weather and floods are, of course, recurring themes. Four major pillars keep coming back in these campaigns. First of all, get in touch. For example, it concerns BE-Alert or knowledge of the right channels in case of an emergency. Secondly, it is about acting efficiently, knowing exactly what to do, for example hiding or knowing what to do in the event of an evacuation order. Thirdly, of course, the preparation is also very important, including knowledge of the environment and the making of their own emergency plans. Finally, it is about the need to tackle things together, such as helping and providing assistance, without, of course, putting themselves at risk. Also in the near future, as we discussed yesterday, the National Crisis Centre will focus on a targeted and integrated communication strategy, which is part of the mission, to coordinate those campaigns, focusing on action reflexes such as hiding, evacuating and alerting, supporting local initiatives, templates and hands-on materials and cooperation with relevant civil society organisations. I believe that there is a responsibility at all levels, including local authorities, which draw up emergency plans. In this sense, local authorities can organise their own exercises, which sometimes happens together with companies. A culture of dealing with risk is absolutely essential. This cannot be worked out on paper without putting it into practice. I think we should all pay particular attention to this. We must also continue to support these initiatives of communication, because they are particularly valuable. In the context of the Education Committee, the element of self-reliance has not been examined, as it concerns more the structures of crisis management, organisation and responsibilities. The learning board itself has a different finality, which rather focuses on the assessment of crisis management in the light of existing regulations and responsibility for emergency planning. Yesterday we discussed this extensively in response to the recommendations on corona. In addition, I have opened it up to other crises. Communication is an essential part of this. For example, we are already doing this with BE-Alert in other forums and soon also in apps like Waze and the like, so that people can be informed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u39	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I have heard a lot about what people can do in the field of hiding and evacuating. In my question, I referred earlier to how we can make people aware that they need to do something in advance to protect their home better. For example, as local government together with the VMM, the Flemish Environmental Society, we will take the initiative to organise an information session. People are made aware of the fact that, for example, with the help of some shelves, they can close their doorways and secure them properly, or that, provided a small subsidy, they also have other security options. In this way, a lot of trouble and torment can be avoided. Our fire department doesn't have a lot of work to do. Of course, the fire department is happy to help, which is one of their tasks, but if the same cellars need to be pumped again and again, it is important to make people aware that they can do something proactively.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u40	Mr. Depoostere has been excused. Mrs. Matz is on another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u41	We have recently paid a great deal of attention here in the committee to the distress call of the federal judicial police. Today, the federal judicial police are housed in different places and you yourself asked if we would not better have a number of services coming together in these times. By centralising, certain services can indeed become more specialised and the available people are used in the best possible way. Like you, I don't want to pin myself on the number of buildings, but I'm interested in your vision of possible centralisation. Could you explain that a little bit more?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u42	Today, the federal judicial police are organised at district level with 14 devolved executives, some of which are also housed in different locations due to the lack of sufficient infrastructure. This sometimes leads to operational problems and, in my view, does not contribute to effective cooperation. Certain remaining sites are also occupied by a small number of employees, so there is little visible cooperation. Since the optimisation of the federal police in 2004, there have been several centralisation projects that have not yet been completed. For example, the plan for the FGP in West Flanders is to close the remaining sites of Ypres and Veurne and collect the employees in Kortrijk and Bruges. In addition, the FGP Namur is working on the relocation of employees who are still based in Dinant to the larger buildings in Namur. For the FGP of Liège, the further roll-out of phase two of the master plan will bring together all employees who are currently working in four locations in the city of Liège on the site in Vottem. Centralisation seems to me appropriate, not only from the point of view of the distributed infrastructure, in order to demonstrate the current projects in this context, but also from the point of view of specialisation. As part of the revision of the vision, I asked the federal police to investigate whether each FGP should be deployed in all areas in which the FGPs are active, or whether there is a need for specialisation. After all, deconcentration could lead to a loss of knowledge and expertise. I will not repeat the debate on investments in the FGP and its staffing capacity. It's too early to pin me on numbers or on the precise allocation of certain tasks. My view of the future of the FGP is certainly that it should evolve towards specialisation, especially in view of the major insecurity phenomena such as cybercrime, drugs and human trafficking, without working in silos. This also raises the question of the presence of detectives and judicial investigations in the local police areas, which are even more widespread. I do not think it is a good idea to divide all the FGP's activities among the local areas. You are aware of my conviction that we are counting too many zones today. I believe more in increased centralisation, of course in line with the prosecution policy, which the prosecutors decide on, and in increased rationalization. The FGP and the federal police are working on that operation right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for the open and honest answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u44	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for your flexibility. I was being held in another commission. Minister, like other areas, the Gaume police area has been involved since 2018 in the pilot project of using the electric pulse gun (EIP) as an alternative weapon in case of delicate intervention. Especially during this test period, the conditions of use of this taser are strict and limited to certain procedures. And it was already in the Gaume police area that this electric pulse gun was used for the first time in Belgium. The local press of this 3rd June 2022 tells us that it was used a second time in the same area, still in the context of a family conflict, which seems a little disturbing to me. Minister, can you remind us of the conditions and limits within which an electric pulse gun can be used, at least during the test period? Were these conditions met in this intervention in Virton, which I told you about? If not, are adaptation measures taken or will they be taken? In general, when can future evaluations of this test period be expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u45	Mr.President, Mr.Vajda, the PIE is currently in the testing phase at national level since May 2018. The Gaume police zone is one of the first pilot zones allowed to use this weapon and the June 2018 letter from the Mons Attorney General validates the pilot experience for these areas. On 14 June 2018, the Gaume police zone drafted a zonal circular for staff and informed the police college, the King's Prosecutor, the DirCo, the CPPL and the rescue zone. It was adapted in April 2021 and the last ministerial authorization received by the Gaume police zone is dated 29 November 2021 and is valid until 31 December this year. As a reminder, the use of the EIP can only take place in accordance with the requirement of section 37 of the Police Function Act, which makes any use of force subject to the prior existence of a reasonable and proportionate subsidiary legitimate ground. The use of force by any member of the police services in the course of his administrative or judicial police duties is therefore subject to cumulative conditions of legality, necessity or subsidiarity, proportionality and warning provided that it does not render use ineffective. The EIP will be authorized within the strict framework of the following legal missions and subject to compliance with the above conditions: mission of a special assistance unit in accordance with IPF 81, intervention and support in a prison environment or in a cell against a physically dangerous person, support for the transfer of detainees with threat or risk, mission of a support unit in support of response services or a front-line team for the control of a dangerous threatening person in whom the effect of the truncheon or pepperspray is inefficient. On 31 May of this year, police officers from the Gaume police area were called in response to incidents of domestic violence. Three intervention teams went to the scene and had to master a violent individual. The latter was deprived of liberty at the judicial level during the hearings, in agreement with the prosecutor's office. In accordance with the procedures, the medical follow-up of the person concerned was carried out by the service 100. As with all acts of rebellion, the investigation was resumed, at the request of the magistrate, by the investigation and search service of the Gaume police area in order to hear all the parties. Given the secrecy of judicial information, it is not up to us to give further details. The conditions of use of the EIP have been fully respected, including the legal and medical framework. Finally, the pilot project ends on 31 December of this year. Its evaluation is still ongoing within the CVPL.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u46	Minister, thank you for your answers. You are telling me that all the conditions have been met. The events took place in a family setting. I hear, of course, that the person seemed pretty violent. But I also note that if the person was dangerous and threatening, there were still three on-site response teams. As you say, the investigation is still under way. The secrecy of the investigation therefore prevails. We'll know more later. Thank you for the answers to date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u47	Mr Patrick Prévot is not here, his question no.5502900C is not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u48	Minister, in November 2021, during the discussions on your general policy note, I asked you about the increase in shooting in public space and against our police officers. I asked you if you had any statistics on the shooting events, and if so, what report did you receive. Did you have a coordinated assessment between the areas and the federal police's support for this situation? What analysis report was sent to you, particularly in the framework of the Canal Plan? What contacts did you have with the area directions? Had any specific action been envisaged? I had not received an answer to all these questions. It is true, however, that there were many questions during the presentation of your policy note. Last week, on Thursday, I asked you again about this. While it is clear that no level of competence should be taken away from these shootings and settlements, particularly in the context of drug trafficking, one cannot continue to let the months pass through such an escalation of violence. Over a period of only a few weeks at the end of 2021, it was at least five acts of shooting in the Brussels Region (Brussels West and Molenbeek). Madam Minister, today through the press, I find answers to my questions of November 2021 concerning the number of acts of shooting in public space: 22 shootings in 2022 to date in the Brussels Region, announced by the Prosecutor of the King of Brussels and resulting in a death and 16 wounded in our streets over six months. As early as November, I told you: as a policeman, we had never known such repetitions of facts of this nature! What balance sheet do you have to deal with this situation? What is the evolution of these shootings between 2020 and 2021? What measures have been taken to combat urban gangs since November 2021? What specific support had to be given to certain police areas in the country? Has a coordinated assessment been carried out between the Brussels areas and the federal police support services regarding the Canal Plan? Last week, you said that currently 52 police officers are in reinforcement, but that this reinforcement should be increased. How high? Given the links with drug trafficking, what details can we provide about the reinforcements of the PJF at this level? You are aware that we heard them yesterday on this issue! Finally, could you please clarify what your project intends to provide regional authorities with commanding powers for the police services in the six Brussels areas? Could we have data on this project and the time frame within which you will be able to present it to us?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u49	Colleagues, I do not need to remind you that I have already replied to this issue in plenary on 23 June 2022. Mr Pivin, with regard to your first question about the shooting that took place on 20 June in Molenbeek-Saint-Jean, you will understand that I am not in a position to mention this incident in detail. The judicial investigation is still ongoing. I can only relay to you the elements that have been communicated to me by the Brussels-West police zone, namely that, according to the first elements of the investigation, it seems that the origin is the rivalry between gangs in the context of drug trafficking. The urban band approach is the subject of a confidential circular dated 28 December 1999 which was updated in 2010. As regards support for police areas, mention should be made of the work of the Federal Judicial Police (FJP) in Brussels, which can be involved, for example, in certain investigations and through its support services. In particular, the technical and scientific police and the Regional Computer Crime Unit can be mobilised for such acts. The PJF is also part of a comprehensive plan to combat drugs. At the moment, the PJF in Brussels, in close cooperation with the coordinating director of the Federal Police, also produces a quantitative and qualitative image. This should give an idea of the extent of the problem. A meeting between the police zones and the PJF in Brussels is planned shortly. Concerning the other shootings that took place on the Brussels Region, I can tell you the following. While there were no incidents in three Brussels police areas, between September 2021 and June 2022 the Midi police area experienced seven incidents of similar weapons, five of which were allegedly related to drug trafficking. The Brussels-Capital-Ixelles area, for its part, was confronted with four similar facts, one with a deceased person. Several investigations are still under way. Since the communication is within the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities, I cannot comment on it. As you know, last week I had an extensive and constructive meeting with Catherine Moureaux, the mayor of Molenbeek. The chief of police of the Brussels-West police area was also present. There they were asked to maintain the federal police reinforcement as provided for in the Channel Plan. From the federal level, the Brussels-West police area can count on a subsidy of 46 staff in connection with the increase in safety on and around public transport. In addition, 52 police officers in the various zones are made available through the federal police in the framework of the Channel Plan. I am aware that the framework for the Channel Plan has not been fully filled. That has to do with historical reasons. I don't want to make promises I can't keep. The federal policemen must be found and want to stay there. That was not always the case in the past. But I also told them that I heard the urgent question. Almost 170 police inspectors are missing in the Brussels-West zone. This framework is, of course, intended to be filled. Of course, the demand for 20 additional police officers can be placed in that perspective. I therefore, together with the Commissioner-General, immediately looked at how to free up additional capacity within the framework of the Channel Plan. I also believe that it would be appropriate to re-evaluate this Canal Plan and possibly refine its objectives in the light of the situation we are facing today. This is no longer about terrorism but about drug-related crime. In addition, we have discussed this in detail and I am already focusing on the recruitment and strengthening of the FGPs. Today there are 6,000 people in the political vein of the six Brussels zones. It seems clear to me that they are being used to the full and that there is a strong cooperation between the Brussels areas, which is already possible under the legal framework today. The Brussels-West police area has entered into the policy plan and in the part of the police as an attractive and modern employer. This was also translated into the letter of commission to the Chiefs of Staff for the years 2021-2025. The reinforced and more efficient recruitment through federal police is an absolute priority in this legislature. In the Brussels-West zone, the shortage of operational police officers is up to 16% or 170 police inspectors. Initiatives were taken, such as a specific recruitment team, and there are also initiatives to convince colleagues to remain employed in the police area. As part of the strengthening of the proximity police, the police area tries to reach interested people who live in Brussels through information sessions and contact moments, because it is of course essential that the police can also reflect society there. In the context of the question of how to extend the coordinating powers of the Prime Minister of Brussels, I would first of all like to point out that the Prime Minister has already been given a central role in the security policy of the nineteen municipalities of Brussels as a result of the sixth state reform. For example, it must ensure the maintenance of public order, public rest, safety and health. He can call on the federal police and should also ensure good cooperation between the six police zones. Furthermore, in a subsidiary order, he exercises the powers of the mayor of one of the nineteen municipalities in Brussels where the latter fails to fulfil his or her responsibilities, where the disturbance of public policy extends over the territory of several municipalities or where, even if the event or situation is located only in a single municipality, the general interest requires such intervention by the Prime Minister. Furthermore, the Prime Minister is also responsible for the coordination of local security monitoring, the uniform registration of crime in Brussels and the ongoing monitoring of street crime and other priority forms of crime. The powers that the Prime Minister has today do not give him the right to give direct orders, teachings or guidelines to the local police. On that last point in particular, it is appropriate to give the Prime Minister further powers. Police areas should be able to come under the coordination and authority of the Prime Minister in specific situations, which is necessary to address specific security problems facing Brussels more vigorously, coordinated and more efficiently. That is why I have prepared a draft law, in implementation of the government agreement, to extend the powers of the Prime Minister in the event of exceptional security problems, particularly if they cross the borders of the local police zones. This is, as I said, in line with the government agreement, which provides for police areas to be placed under the coordination and authority of the Prime Minister for exceptional, acute or unexpected security problems crossing the borders of the local police zone, in order to ensure, in particular, the unity of command.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u50	Minister, let there be no misunderstanding: I did not ask you for details about the last shooting in my questions. You tell us that there are seven facts in Brussels-Midi, four in Brussels-Ixelles. This means, by subtraction, that in the Brussels-West area there is exactly the same number, eleven. The Brussels-West area combines the equivalent of the other two areas, in fact, over the last few months. That's a fact I'm making. I agree with an assessment of the Canal Plan in relation to the objective, which was initially terrorism. It probably needs to be reassessed on the basis of a new objective. That seems certain to me, as it seems almost certain to me that a one-off increase in the number of agents on the territory, on the streets, will not really help to combat this type of crime. It's a personal opinion. As for the unified command, at the MR, we have been calling for it for years. It is a very good thing that you are moving towards a regional command, especially since there seems to be little training in this regard, despite the sixth reform of the State. I strongly encourage you in this direction. Thank you for the answers you have given us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u51	Mr President, Minister, it is clear that in Brussels we are in a little bit of a wasp's nest. No one wants to put their hand in it and no one's to blame except the criminals. However, we must dare to recognise that these are no longer single facts. The longer there is organized crime, which deserves our full attention. Drugs seem to go hand in hand with illegal arms trade, accounts and so on. Belgium is known as a turntable of the arms trade. It is not a priority for the Belgian police services today, but it is a priority for Europol. Although arms trafficking is included in the National Security Plan, little is done about it in practice. The first problem is the registration procedure which police officers must follow. A second problem is the lack of expertise. A lot of staff comes and goes. Moreover, there is hardly any research into the origin of these smuggling routes and the way the weapons travel to Belgium. The reason for this is the understaff of the services. If we want to tackle this problem with rigour, there are only three possibilities. We need to invest financially, increase capacity and enable detection. So we need to be able to cut the supply lines. That's the only solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u52	Madam Minister, a week ago we read in the press that a twenty-five-year-old young man with a serious form of autism had been imprisoned in an isolation cell of the arrest house in Antwerp for several weeks. The young man's sister indicated in the media that she was disappointed in the police approach. Apparently, there was an escalation during an intervention where a cop pulled a gun. I do not want to go into this specific case in more detail. Recently, however, I received a message from another man, who also suffers from autism. He also got a police weapon aimed at him after an intervention in an argument in his apartment building and he also had to spend a night in jail. I'm certainly not saying that people with mental disabilities or autism can never commit violent behavior. On the basis of these two facts, I do have a question about dealing with people with mental disabilities. We know from research that they, as perpetrator or victim, are particularly vulnerable to interactions with police officers. An intellectual limitation is often difficult to recognise, and this increases the risk of miscommunication, over-interrogation or unnecessary escalation. I certainly don't blame the cops, because it's not an easy job and it's not obvious who you're dealing with. Policemen must have enough knowledge and handles to be able to act properly when they come into contact with that target group. In this way, unnecessary escalation of violence can be avoided. Are there any manuals for police officers dealing with that target group? Is the subject addressed in their basic training? That training is already very short, so I can imagine that might not be possible. Are there any training courses for police officers on how to deal with these people? How can the possible risks in the interaction between police and intellectually impaired people be reduced?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u53	Mrs Platteau, in the framework of the Excited Delirium Syndrome (EDS) action plan, a prevention sheet was drawn up by the federal police for first-line police officers and specific training courses were also developed. This action plan has now been drawn up and a more comprehensive guide is being prepared. The aim is not to confine itself to the phenomenon of EDS and also to focus attention on people with learning difficulties. Dealing with people with intellectual disabilities is addressed in the initial training of the prospective police inspector, in particular during the study of procedures relating to police assistance in the observation and transport of mentally ill people. In addition, there is also a practical module dedicated specifically to the EDS phenomenon. The training that inspectors can follow to become an officer of judicial police also includes a module specifically dedicated to the approach of vulnerable persons, including those with intellectual disabilities. Police schools also offer a number of further training courses for police officers in this field. It seems to me that it is the responsibility of the local authorities of the police zones to make their training needs known to these police schools in order to ensure that primary police officers are adequately trained in this area. In addition to the training mentioned above, the diversity and respect campaigns by the integrated police (GPI) also contribute to the sensitisation of police officers in contact with the population. In any case, the GPI is committed to continuing those efforts in relation to vulnerable persons. As we have said in our first topical debate: if we need to teach all these things to candidate police inspectors, especially communicative, social and personal skills, we need longer training. We can introduce police officers to certain phenomena, but it takes time to understand them. That is precisely why we are calling for longer training.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u54	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I fully agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u55	Madam Minister, I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u56	Mr Metsu, as a result of the destruction of a decision by the Hainaut-Centre Zone Council, a lot of commotion arose at the beginning of the summer of 2021 about the possible use of 24-hour services. In order to answer these questions and concerns, I decided to set up a working group to see whether and under what conditions the relief zones could introduce a 24-hour working regime. That working group met five times between September 2021 and April 2022, including scientific studies on the issue. As mentioned in the circular letter, the working group consisted of representatives of the employers, such as the Fire Weather Network and ReZonWal, and of the employees, in particular the three representative trade unions, supplemented by experts from the FOD WASO, the FOD BOSA and representatives of my services. You will be pleased to learn that some working groups are already producing results, in this case in the form of the circular. The information currently available to my services means that there are currently 24-hour shifts in the fire department of the Brussels-Capital Region and in eleven different relief zones for at least one post or at least a part of the staff. As mentioned in the circular letter, there are many guarantees regarding the health and well-being of workers included in the code for well-being at work. We have also paid particular attention to this in the conditions and the procedure so that welfare and health are taken into account when it is introduced. Monitoring of compliance with these provisions is carried out by the competent services of the Minister for Employment. My services will monitor the application of the 19 April 2014 Act on the working time of operational firefighters and will also use the circular of 3 June 2022 as a guide in the future. The additional cost of introducing a 24-hour shift depends on a whole range of factors and can therefore be difficult to generalise. It depends on the composition of the staff and the use of these shifts. Among other things, the number of staff who will work in such a system has an influence, including the degree of infrastructure changes needed to allow staff to rest sufficiently and also the extent to which staff deployment is differentiated. Due to the diversity within those zones, it is not possible to attach an exact figure to the additional costs for an average zone. With the introduction of the differentiated system, where zones can introduce it if they so wish, we believe we have given an answer to the explicit question, including from certain trade unions, in order to be able to do so. At the same time, we have not imposed an obligation, as this system is not possible in some areas, for example because of the infrastructure or because of the considerations of health and well-being.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u57	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I'll read your answer again quietly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u58	Mr Bombled is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u59	I refer to the written version of my oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u60	Mr Metsu, one of the recommendations of the POC Terro was indeed about the elaboration of the concept of JIC and JDC. The cooperation was initiated and fully developed at the Court of Appeal in Brussels. Such consultation is also taking place in the other courts of appeal, with and among the various security actors. This does not yet happen according to the concept of JIC and JDC, but within the so-called counterterrorism platforms. Recently, the Attorney General in Brussels presented an evaluation at the Coordination Committee on Intelligence and Security (CCIV) after three years of operation of JIC and JDC within his court of appeal. It was proposed to extend this concept to the other courts of appeal. All CCIV members will first discuss this proposal internally, and their views and opinions will then be gathered at a forthcoming CCIV meeting in the autumn. With regard to the recommendation on the hierarchical position of the Commissioner-General and the police as a hierarchical organisation, I can give you the following. According to the law on integrated police, the entire federal police are under the leadership of the CG. He must therefore ensure coordination between the various general managements and also ensure the integrated execution of the tasks of the entire federal police. In particular, he shall ensure that the administrative director-coordinator and the judicial director coordinate their activities. The CG already ensures the implementation of a coherent vision across the federal police, including through the approval of the orders to the police officers. He works within the Federal Police Executive Committee on the basis of a consensus model, but can also make decisions himself. The powers and structures introduced by law are therefore sufficient for the CG to take the necessary decisions for the proper functioning of the federal police, although it sometimes takes time to provide for that consultation. For these reasons, the legislative changes indicated by the parliamentary committee of inquiry have never been implemented, not even by the previous Ministers of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u61	That was an answer to both questions. I will re-table the first question after the CCIV. After all, you talked about autumn. As for your second question, we also had an interesting hearing yesterday. I am sure you will hear more about this through your cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u62	Mr President, this question concerns the follow-up to the floods. Our country has been the scene of unprecedented natural disasters for almost a year now. We have all been deeply impressed by the desolation images left behind by the floods of 14 and 15 July. You obviously made a number of commitments. The possible establishment of a committee of inquiry was then on the agenda. It had been timed to say that probably the federal government and other governments had taken the measure of our country's unpreparedness. At the September and October commissions which had been devoted solely to floods, you had therefore announced the establishment of an apprenticeship commission. In particular, the purpose of the strategy is to assess crisis management at exceptional events and to draw lessons from it in the form of recommendations in order to be able to better manage a crisis of such magnitude and thus develop a culture of risk. You have also committed yourself to implementing Resolution No. 947, which aims to set up a study on the impact of civil protection reform on relief services. This is linked to the report of the Learning Committee, knowing how important it is to have high-quality civil security. I would also like to know, Madam Minister, whether you could come back to the composition of the Learning Commission, the number of its members and their functions, the status of its work, and when you intend to discuss it with Parliament. You provided a timetable for the study on the impact of civil protection reform. The final bilingual report is due at least June 2022, 220 days from November 2021. The report has therefore come to an end. What conclusion do you draw? How do you intend to implement it? How do you intend to involve Parliament? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u63	The ongoing work of the July 2021 Flood Learning Commission should assess crisis management exclusively with regard to the regulation of emergency planning. The aim of the study is therefore to draw lessons in order to be even better able to manage a crisis, and in general to improve constructively what is needed in terms of crisis management. The final report should contain conclusions, in particular on awareness-raising of such weather events, administrative measures, in particular evacuation measures and the deployment and coordination of relief efforts. He will also mention recommendations from the study with a view to improving the various aspects of the security chain in the context of crisis management. The accompanying committee you are talking about was set up at the beginning of the year to ensure the quality of the work and this accompanying committee has already met three times during the working meetings in the presence of the academic consortium ULB-VUB, to which the study was entrusted. The accompanying committee is composed of a total of 11 representatives from academic and crisis management fields. The subjects 1.3 and 4 of the political world, two governors and one mayor, are part of this, as well as the Directorate-General for Civil Security. The study is progressing at a good pace. The consortium conducted numerous qualitative interviews on flood crisis management with resource persons, key actors in crisis management from disciplines 1,3,4 and 5, namely relief areas, police, civil protection and relevant communication actors. The consortium also conducted interviews with the population affected by the dramatic floods. Intermediate results will normally be available in July. It is expected that the final report of the study will be finalised in November 2022 and I will certainly have the honour to inform Parliament accordingly. On the other hand, the final report of the study on the impact of the civil protection reform you are referring to is actually expected in August of this year, as the contract notification attributing the study was made on 7 December last year. In addition, one of the important phases of the study was delayed. This is the quantitative survey for the main civil protection partners. As the response rate for some key categories was found to be low by the Steering Committee, it was decided to delay somewhat the closure of this phase in order to increase the response rate in question. As a result, the deadline for the submission of the final report is somewhat delayed. Therefore, I am not in a position to inform you of my conclusions on this subject. Once my administration has received this final report, it will provide me with its comments and observations. On this basis, I will draw conclusions which I will, of course, share with Parliament, as I have committed myself to. In view of the timetable, this will not take place until the resumed parliamentary session in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u64	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I'm not hiding from you my astonishment about the delay. We had already found, when it came to these different studies and evaluations, that the delays were horribly long in relation to the issues and the likely recurrence of these types of events, particularly in the light of climate change. We're very worried. On the one hand, these reports are due in the autumn and, on the other hand, on the basis of these reports, lessons have to be learned and legislative changes put into practice, etc. So it took a huge amount of time. Recently, there have been floods on the Hannut side, which have greatly affected the population. I am always very puzzled by the time these studies take, even if they are interesting. I have been questioned by various security bodies who tell me that the accompanying committee includes only Dutch speakers. Can you confirm this information? It would have been decided not to take Francophones from the disaster zone because they would be judges and parties. That sounds amazing to me. They're the ones who lived things live. The Dutch speakers of this committee have no knowledge of the field. How can one imagine declining recommendations on a terrain, even if it is geographical, which is not known? In September, we trusted you and thought that this process would be quick. We are now a year later and nothing has yet been implemented. We cannot discuss a project, nothing has been achieved in the legislation, in orders that you could have taken to improve the coordination of evacuations and other points that had been raised. I do not hide from you my great disappointment at the timing that you have just announced and the slowness to conclude on several topics, that – as well as the relief services – we have seen for months.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u65	Minister, it has now been two months since we voted in plenary to give young people the right to vote from the age of 16 for the European elections. Today, therefore, we have two years left to put the system in place and to raise young people's awareness of this new right. Therefore, can you tell me from when it will be possible for a young person concerned to register? What is the procedure for registration? Will online registration be available, and how? If so, will it always be possible via the municipality? What is the planned communication plan for this? How will you inform and raise awareness among young people? Is there a personalized letter for each young person concerned? Are videos or other media being considered? What is the planned role for the municipalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u66	Mr. Defossé, the bill was passed in the House on 19 May. It was later promulgated by the King on 1 June and was published yesterday in the Belgian Monitor. As you know, the last section of this Act sets its entry into force on May 1, 2023. Therefore, it is impossible for a young person to register before that date. In particular, this period is necessary in order to enable the services concerned to provide for the computer recording of the entry in the population register. Young citizens will then be able to register, as is the case for the European citizen, until the official date of cessation of the lists of electors, 1 March 2024, if the election of the European Parliament takes place in May of the same year. With regard to this registration, the Internal SPF is currently working on the development of an online application allowing young voters to transmit their application for registration by digital means to their municipal administration. In this way, they will be spared a passage to the said administration. However, a traditional registration at the town's windows will, of course, always be possible. Good dissemination of information to this target audience is of course crucial. The communication plan on this subject is currently being developed. To this end, my services shall ensure that they meet with representative associations in order to use the most appropriate means of communication. This campaign, which is scheduled to be launched in September 2023, i.e. at the start of the school year, should include, within the budgetary means available, the transmission of a letter to the young people concerned, educational materials for schools which wish to do so or the implementation of a campaign via social networks. This communication will be repeated to ensure maximum awareness among the target audience. Municipalities which, as provided by law, will receive applications for registration from young people will be able to disseminate the necessary information via their website or the periodical of the municipality.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u67	Yes, it's important, but the deadline is short. We know that! However, we will have to do some substantive work to raise awareness and convince young people to vote and explain how this should work. We'll have a year to do it. That's achievable. Communication will have to start as soon as possible, at least the preparation. For the rest, I encourage all of you to do this awareness work in your daily life.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u68	As I have already pointed out in response to the current questions in plenary last week, I deeply regret the recent incidents in and around a number of recreational areas. We cannot, of course, tolerate the fact that the pleasure of many young people and families is disturbed by a small group of rioters. I have therefore taken a number of concrete measures before the recent incidents to increase the effectiveness of the local authorities and the operators of recreational areas in order to ensure safety in recreational areas. To this end, as you know, I published a circular with both preventive and repressive measures to avoid the nuisance as much as possible. One of them is working with a capacity limitation and with a reservation system. We know that limiting the number of visitors has a positive impact on the management of nuisances. For example, the recreational area De Nekker has recently decided to provide for a capacity limitation, but also a mandatory reservation, in order to avoid nuisance. In addition, the mayors may, as for other facts, impose a place ban in the event of disturbance of public policy. We had that ban last year in the ANG, so that every police inspector can immediately check whether there is a place ban and whether the person concerned should be excluded from the recreational area. For example, De Nekker's reservation system is independent of the ANG. That information cannot simply be shared. In addition, the Railway Police and Securail also supervise the Brussels stations, both physically and via camera surveillance. When large groups of young people travel by train to Mechelen, the Railway Police, as well as Securail, will be able to transmit information to the Mechelen-Willebroek police zone for further monitoring and follow-up. In addition, the police area Mechelen-Willebroek has made agreements with the federal police on the presence of police in the stations and in the recreational area, both in civilian and in uniform. In addition to the regular presence, the police area will provide extra bets in the stations near De Nekker, and also in the immediate vicinity of De Nekker, to detect any nuisance. Targeted actions against possible drug use in the recreational domain will also be carried out periodically. Of course, in case of any problems, a request for reinforcement may also be addressed to the federal police to provide additional assistance and assistance. You mentioned prevention and prevention workers. Firstly, it concerns the prevention services of cities and municipalities. Those persons do not have enforcement powers. The prevention workers can appeal to young people from their expertise, and of course also sensitise them and point to their inappropriate behaviour in the recreation area. That's how they follow this up. In this connection, I would like to emphasise that there is a difference between recreational areas and football stadiums, which are much better protected and where access control is much easier, as there are often only a limited number of entrances. Not all recreational areas, on the other hand, are fenced. When we talk about coastal areas, we already find ourselves in completely different waters. Not all recreational areas are operated by the same type of operator. Sometimes they're public entities, sometimes they're private entities. That is why today it is not possible to share this data between the various operators, because it requires a legal basis. It's just a question of how that could be described. I keep looking for additional tools to support the local authorities and the operators in their fight against this nuisance. We must, of course, take account of the current legal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u69	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I was a little surprised that Mr Demon spoke in plenary last week about a black list of ammo makers, which should be transferred between the various recreational areas, such as a stadium ban. Why was I surprised? That wasn't because it was a good idea from Mr. Demon. Because he's got good ideas all the time. I was surprised that he had already signed the proposal for a resolution and that that resolution was approved in Parliament on 16 June 2020. I asked him that question and it turned out he forgot. I sent him that text again. It is true that a recreation area cannot be assimilated to a football stadium. It may be harder to secure than a football stadium, but that doesn't mean it's impossible. Those directors are themselves asking parties and therefore one could consider voluntarily signing into such a system of reading the identity card. If one is on the list of ammo makers, one is, in accordance with the stadium ban, for a period of 3 months to 5 years removed from those recreational parks and even a perimeter around them. The recreational areas that make the effort to fence their domain could be helped in this way. That's my advice. I would ask you to read that resolution again, I am sure. By the way, we have written them together with the executives of De Ster and Redfed. It is worth it and some work has already been done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u70	Madam Secretary, I would like to make a few points clear. What additional measures are provided for off-shore? I imagine Governor Carl Decaluwe has already been with you. With my question, I don't want to suggest that you take over everything. Of course, the local authorities have absolutely their responsibility and the governor has a coordinating role. But if things really go wrong and the local level can't handle it, what federal support is available? I also heard that, for example, Knokke-Heist works with the Dutch police, in case there is amok of Dutch young people crossing the border. There's a lot of business going around. That's why I wanted to ask you what has already been planned and what additional support you can provide from the federal police.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u71	Mrs Ingels, there has indeed been a lot of consultation, not only in preparation for the summer of this year, but also last year. The consultation was constructive and we also received that feedback from, among other things, the governor. We have now discussed all this in a timely and structured manner. Of course, there is no unlimited reserve of federal police inspectors who can be sent to the coast. That's what we hear in Knokke. They only have 90 degrees in which they can recruit, because they have the border with the Netherlands and the border of the coast. Because many Dutch young people go down there, especially in mid-July, they work together in this way. That certainly makes sense. The additional support for coastal zones during the summer months is, in principle, provided by postings from the federal police and operational police officers, asking for the needs of the zones in the spring of this year. These postings are carried out by the federal police services, from the federal and local police. As you may know, some local areas also send people to the local areas on the coast. A reinforcement of 28 operational police officers is provided from the federal police. The director-coordinator of West Flanders has allocated 28 people according to a certain distribution key to the seven coastal zones, while, of course, in the event of emergencies or incidents, coastal zones can also use the national reserve and other specialised support, such as air support or cavalry. In addition, the federal police will provide specialist support with six riders. That was the case last year, by the way. In addition, the railway police will focus in particular on groups of amokmakers. In doing so, it will work closely with SNCB and Securail, who are primarily responsible for safety on their trains and for public order. If good weather is predicted, with possible additional nuisances as a result, the railway police will further increase their presence at the major stations and at the risk lines. The local police areas are basically responsible for safety in the coastal stations, but the railway police will therefore provide additional reinforcement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u72	Madam Secretary, I hope with you that it stays calm on the coast.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u73	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u74	On 28 January 2022 we reached an interim conditional agreement on the first quantitative part. Now the negotiations on the qualitative part are under way. In a first phase, this spring, on the basis of proposals from the integrated police and the expectations of the syndicated partners, a choice was made for the qualitative aspects to be addressed. A draft text was then drawn up for each theme. That text has now been formally placed on the negotiating table three times, in particular on 12 May, 1 June and 16 June, and another meeting is scheduled. I hope you will understand that I am not going to go into the details of the current issues at the moment in order to ensure that the negotiations are conducted as calmly as possible. I can tell you that the overall proposal for the qualitative section contains thirteen points. A balanced distribution has been made between the points which the government wants, with the federal and local police on the one hand, and those which should be able to respond to the demands and aspirations of the trade unions on the other. These include expansions of the pilot project "Customised recruitment," following the demand of the areas to recruit themselves, the attractiveness of specialised functions in both federal and local police forces, the relaxation of the social promotion system and of the mobility rules, the revision of training for specialised functions, the organisation of 12-hour services and the violence against the police. All thirteen topics are currently the subject of the ongoing negotiations. There will only be an agreement if all the partners around the table can agree to the points. The forum of the negotiating committee for the police services is currently doing its job. We hope that the negotiations will continue to be successful. It is my intention to be able to land the text for the qualitative part of the sectoral negotiations in the coming summer. In doing so, we must take into account summer agendas. I am also counting on the trade unions to contribute to this agreement, because I believe that it can contribute to the attractiveness of the police and thus facilitate recruitment and retention of staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u75	I think it is good to continue to discuss and balance points for all actors. The coincidence is that today I read in a newspaper article that absenteeism in the police is higher than in other sectors, both in numbers, frequency and number of days. I believe that this should be taken into account in the further discussions. The article mentions an absenteeism of 3,600 agents out of 48,000. That is considerable and all the worse in the light of the difficult recruitment and the outflow. You should consider why absenteeism is so high.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u76	Mr Metsu, with regard to your first question on budgetary control of 2022, I can tell you that it is indeed true that on 3 June the Council of Ministers adopted a preliminary draft law amending Article 69 of the coordinated laws of the Council of State. That amendment provides for a substantial increase in the staff framework of the Council of State. The budgetary cost of extending the staffing framework is included in the budget for the last budgetary control. The additional resources for the Council of State go exclusively and in full to this increase in staff. After all, the work of the Council of State is largely people's business. Last week I received the favourable opinion of the Council of State's Legislative Section on the proposed amendment to Article 69. You are asking about the timing of the draft law. I can confirm that the necessary steps have been taken to submit the draft legislation to Parliament. On 3 June, the Council of Ministers also took note of the proposals and guidelines concerning the substantive reform of the Legislative Department and the Administrative Law Department. The Council of Ministers instructed me to draw up regulatory texts for this substantive reform. These proposals aim in particular to obtain a more efficient and quality resolution of all administrative disputes and to optimise the legislative process, with the advice of the Legislative Department. The aim is to present this legislative amendment with qualitative and substantive adjustments to Parliament in the autumn. As you know, in the context of the sectoral negotiations on the quantitative section, we also concluded a protocol agreement with two of the four trade unions on the NAVAP. In this context, I asked the CCGPI to make proposals on an end-of-life policy which I believe should include five objectives. Firstly, it concerns the organisation's response to provide sufficient adapted functions in a timely manner and to identify, where possible, the number of staff meeting the conditions of the NAVAP in the various GPI corps. Secondly, it concerns the opening up of customised functions to the target group concerned within the GPI and initially within its own department or its own corps but possibly beyond. Thirdly, it is a question of clarifying the planned activation measures in the Staff Regulations which can be considered as part of an end-of-life policy. Fourthly, there is the commitment to telework policy tailored to the staff concerned. Fifthly, the aim is to set up a quarterly monitoring and reporting exercise to closely monitor and, where necessary, adjust the evolution of non-activity and the recordings of adapted work and activation measures. I have noted that this is not so clearly mapped out. In addition, in the framework of the qualitative part of the sectoral negotiations, we have also asked the syndicated partners for an activation policy for the staff who are approaching the end of the career, in order to provide more facilitation measures for this. The aim is to keep them motivated and comfortable at work, assuming that everyone wants to serve the organisation permanently and not necessarily retire as early as possible. We realise, of course, that the police profession is specific and demanding, that there are many different services in the federal and local police and that these levels are autonomous, but also depend on different authorities, so there is also an impact of that local autonomy and of the powers. However, it seems appropriate to establish a general framework for HRM policy, taking into account the different generations of staff working there. This is also part of the qualitative aspect of the ongoing sectoral negotiations. We hope to make progress in this area in the coming weeks. Mr Metsu, you also had a question about the Court of Auditors' criticism. Last year an additional budget of €79.3 million was added specifically for i-Police to the budgets under the recovery and transition plan. This was done through a supplement to the budget. In addition, any underutilisation in staff appropriations will be transferred for the period 2022-2024. Of course, these amounts are not yet known and can only be determined later in the year. The i-Police project is only partially financed with possible underutilisations on staff appropriations. Most of the budget is foreseen through regular budget appropriations. In my view, the Court of Auditors rightly pointed to an important element that has not yet been included in this budget control, namely the additional EUR 70 million policy envelope. As you know, and as discussed in detail in the context of discussions on the federal judicial police, on 17 June the Council of Ministers approved my proposal for the allocation of these additional resources within the additional policy envelope, which also immediately included the future budgets of EUR 90 and EUR 100 million for 2023 and 2024, respectively, so that these additional funds for 2023 can be entered immediately in the budget and should therefore no longer remain on the interdepartmental commission. In this way we respond to the criticism of the Court of Auditors, to which we have now remediated. We want to avoid such criticism in the following years.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic842x.u77	Perfect, that's very good news, in the sense that it's much clearer in that way.
