ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u1	Mr President, I should like to apologize for my absence in the committee responsible for monitoring missions abroad this morning, for reasons of agenda. We are addressing a topic of burning news. Members of the Committee on External Relations will have an opportunity to discuss this with the Minister for Foreign Affairs this afternoon, but I would be remiss if I did not ask his Defence colleague. Minister, we are concerned about the evolution that we have been following every day for several weeks. The situation seems to be getting worse on the Ukrainian and Russian border. The recent exchanges between the US administration and Russia are obviously putting us on alert. It is important that we Europeans also have a say and that we can participate in diplomatic processes. This solution must always be preferred, but we must also prepare for what could become a topical event. We do not hope to do so, but we still want to have information and forecasts. In this regard, Minister, the federal government has just granted an increase in the Defence budget, bringing its spending to 1.54% of GDP in 2030. Last week, we also heard from Admiral Michel Hofman, the Chief of Defence, who had expressed his deep concern at the evolution of Russia. The risk of an invasion in Ukraine was considered to be very real, although not imminent, if I believe the recent statement by the international community. NATO announced the dispatch of additional ships and combat aircraft to Eastern Europe, as well as a rapid response force of 40,000 units. In 2021, there were 30% more Russian ship crossings in the North Sea than in 2020. These recent developments therefore affect us politically, I said, militarily, but also diplomatically. Currently, Belgium participates in NATO missions with its F-16s deployed in Estonia...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u2	Mrs. Jadin, can you conclude, please?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u3	Mr President, we are in the midst of an inquiry, but I shall conclude immediately. Belgium also participates almost permanently in NATO-deployed naval units. In addition, our country will later in the year have a land detachment in Lithuania. Minister, in which military areas will the increased budget be spent? Does Belgium intend to deploy more personnel and equipment in the event of Russian invasion of Ukraine? How many Belgian soldiers are among the 40,000 troops sent by NATO? How many military personnel are currently in Estonia? How many military personnel will be deployed in Lithuania in the future? Finally, when will the Earth detachment begin its mission in Lithuania?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u4	Mr President, Minister, the tensions between the West and Russia on Ukraine are certainly not new, but have, of course, been greatly intensified in recent weeks. The increase in the number of troops along the Ukrainian border and Russia's increasingly harsh demands for NATO make dialogue and military confrontation or raids absolutely impossible. In the last few weeks intensive consultations have been held between the US, NATO, Russia, the EU and the OSCE. Although European security interests were on the table at the first consultation, the EU excelled in its absence. The negotiations have still not reached a breakthrough. What is certain is that NATO is increasing its readiness. A number of Member States are sending reinforcements and the US are building up their presence in Eastern Europe. Also the Belgian CHOD, who was still a guest in a pilot program last night, says he wants to continue to dissuade, including with the already present F-16s, and is considering an additional possible deployment through the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force with about 300 soldiers. According to the CHOD, additional F-16s and a frigate were also promised. The least we can say is that the situation is inflammable and that we are in favour of a very delicate exercise if we are to preserve peace. Let us hope that liberal leaders, like Guy Verhofstadt, do not suddenly show up in Kiev to throw oil on the fire, as was the case in 2014. I have the following questions. How do you respond to the fact that the European representatives were absent from the first US-Russian summit in Geneva? How did Belgium react at the NATO-Russia Council and the OSCE talks? In the meantime, did Belgium receive a specific question for assistance or any other contribution from NATO or Ukraine? If so, which and how did you react to it or how will you react to it? Can you explain what the Belgian stand-up that is being proposed to us, namely the possible deployment through the VJTF and the deployment of additional F-16s, will mean, in concrete terms, a frigate? Where will these resources be deployed? Within what timeframe do you see this, taking into account the strategic reserves? How do you evaluate the risks to our military? How will the mission of our already existing F-16s in the Baltic region be affected if the conflict escalates?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u5	Mr President, I always say that Guy Verhofstadt in Kiev rather than Filip Dewinter at Assad on coffee in Damascus. It is an annoying situation, Mr President, as you rightly said in your introduction. We have just received a very comprehensive briefing from you and your staff, Madam Secretary, for which I thank you. The situation is well known, and I will not repeat what my fellow Members have already said. My questions were submitted in response to Dutch practice, in which a letter is sent to the House of Representatives by the Minister, announcing exactly what the Dutch armed forces are preparing. Have any specific questions been asked by NATO to Belgium? Belgium currently has 4 F-16s in Estonia. In what way is this mission, which is actually air-policing, influenced by what is currently happening? In what way do other components prepare themselves? What is our attitude to military cargo? This may include medical equipment or weapon systems or ammunition. Our ports are always logistics turntables and our airspace is centrally located. I'd like to know about that. I know that you cannot say everything and that much has already been answered, but rather transparency rather than lack of information.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u6	Mr President, the announcement is indeed alarming: the construction of the borders in Ukraine, the manoeuvres that are taking place, the CHOD who spoke on TV yesterday about 300,000 men. I don't know where those numbers come from, but at least he indicated that there's a chance of an open military conflict. He also pointed out that the most important thing today is the betrayal. What can we do? What shall we do? What can our country do? What's the impact on other surgeries? These are questions that we are asking ourselves today, including in our group, as well as those related to other operations, in which Estonia has already been mentioned. On behalf of our group, I give our preliminary conclusion. Europe is far too little present today in that conflict or in the negotiations, while the conflict is taking place at the eastern border of the continent. For the United States, the problem of pushing things forward is not as great as ours. After all, the consequences are for us. I am thinking here of energy prices, the economic consequences and the sanctions. We have already seen in the past what sanctions mean for our agriculture. It is therefore important that Europe is much more clearly present in the dossier. I notice that Macron is now trying to get involved in the debate. The need for more European Union is absolutely clear to us, especially after Afghanistan. There is also the safety aspect. Ukraine is not just a country with 30,000 km of pipelines for oil and gas. There are also 15 nuclear reactors. It has never happened in military history that there is such a battlefield. There is a potential and risky impact, which we must not underestimate. We therefore have every interest in reaching a negotiated solution, regardless of any military decisions that may need to be taken today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u7	Mr President, Minister, what I will not focus on is whether the European Union is respected as a full partner in the dialogue with Russia. That is not the case. Putin doesn't care. Even NATO is not easy for Putin. Russia is just looking at the States bilaterally. Putin assumes that NATO will follow. What the European Union then has to say about the issue is certainly not relevant to the Kremlin. So I won't worry about that. I know that some parties here constantly want to draw the European story of diplomacy, security, foreign policy and, of course, the military European army. However, we are once again seeing how far away we are from that in practice. I'm not suggesting that here with any particular pleasure. You shouldn't think that. I hope, however, that this will open up after all the wailing that we hear here, after the resolutions and the weekly wailing about the European army and European diplomacy. It's nothing, at least for the time being. Madam Secretary, I would like to make four points, if I may. After all, there are four pillars to the current debate. Firstly, the concrete nature of the aid to Ukraine. Has anyone asked for help? Your predecessor, Mr Vandeput, was asked at some point to look after a number of Ukrainian people who were badly wounded and burned during the Donbas war at the Burn Center in Lower Heembeek. We've moved four of them here for care. Is this being reviewed in order to offer that to Ukraine? Did you get a question? What can we do for Ukraine? A second part concerns the capacities that are being asked to protect our own eastern border, that is, separate from Ukraine. It concerns its own NATO territory on the eastern border in the south, Bulgaria, especially Romania, Slovakia and Hungary, and to the east the Baltic States and Poland. What's up with that? What can we do in addition? A lot of things have already been said, but can you give us some explanation? Have there been any specific questions there? A third part of this debate should be about mobility. The Americans announce that they will station troops at the eastern border of the NATO area and are transporting a lot of weapons. Was there a specific demand for mobility addressed to our country? Have the ports been contacted, for example? Have any additional questions been asked to our country for transport in the context of military equipment mobility? Fourthly, I would like to make a point about the Takuba operation. You know our opinion on this. The Malin regime shows every day that Mali is not worth putting our lives on the scale for that. They see how they treat the Danes and the Swedes, how they deal with the Wagner Group, how they spit out the West and how they have now postponed the elections. That is inconceivable and we would risk the lives of our boys and girls by sending 250 troops there. That's hallucinating. Stay out of that wasp nest in Mali, stay out of that new Afghanistan and send those troops to the Eastern border operation, within the framework of collective defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u8	Mr President, thank you for your gesture. Minister, I will not go back to the events, everyone has done it and everyone knows it. Everyone who reads the press can only worry about the situation. We would be more than ever at the limit of a confrontation between major nuclear powers, on European territory more than ever. When we go through the press, we're there. We're in a phase of stress, anxiety. Today, the issues remain primarily diplomatic. We'll have an opportunity to discuss it this afternoon with Mrs. Wilmès. We regret the absence of the European Union in this diplomatic area. We've already said it, it's a problem. In addition to the diplomatic point, we must also take stock of the military situation, as it is an aspect in its own right. We must not be naive. We must be prepared for any eventuality. Anything that can be said publicly must be said with the greatest possible transparency. Ukraine is not part of NATO. Article 5 therefore does not apply. However, if NATO decides to intervene, if the situation changes, how would Belgium and its defence be involved in the conflict and with what means? Is Belgian Defence ready today for a high-intensity conflict with Russia? In the field of European Defence – however, this is also an aspect – how does this reaction organise itself? As Russia is a nuclear power, as are several NATO members, how is this now integrated into NATO's military strategy to deal with these threats? That's for my questions! We've already been around and we'll still have a chance to get back.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u9	Madam Minister, Mr Francken has rightly raised the four points of our group. I would like to add a fifth point. From Russia there is not only a development of troops in the area of the country. Around the Baltic states, around Ukraine, there are all kinds of troop shifts. We also notice a lot of activity in the sea, not that far away from us. At first we thought they would take action towards the Swedish Gotland, but in the meantime we have to note that there is already a lot of activity of Russian amphibious ships moving towards the Mediterranean. Apparently, we would also have played a role in the shadowing of ships passing through our waters in consultation and in cooperation with the Netherlands. How are we going to develop? How is it ensured that our own borders on the North Sea are protected and that we do not see any further development there?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u10	Mr President, I think the first thing to do is not to repeat what was said at the last meeting. Secondly, I think it is appropriate to say again that we must remain calm and that the less we read the newspapers, the better we are. Finally, we are now spreading the impression that we are almost on the eve of a third world war. It is unpleasant and it creates, in addition to the covid, a completely negative anxiety. It is important to reaffirm the will for dialogue. Diplomacy, even the Americans say: when it was Trump, he played poker and Putin chess but here, I think Biden plays chess and Putin too. But, as Mr Franken said, Europe is nowhere in this game. We're sitting and looking at what's going on! On the other hand, we must organize our debate. Last week, Mr Franken wanted to question the Prime Minister who did not have much information. Today we will have a debate in the morning, a debate in the afternoon with an issue that is not yet on the agenda. The real question is this: if this is a mess at the diplomatic level, yes, we will have to have a debate on the basis of concrete elements, depending on concrete requests with procedures to be followed. We talked about Article 5. Ukraine is not in Article 5 and I do not see how NATO would invade Ukraine. This requires a unanimous opinion. It may be necessary to recall the decision-making procedures and, on the basis of concrete information, we will indeed have to take decisions and political positioning. Jointly with that, Mali! It is clear that the configuration changes with all the coups d'état in the region that may require us to reconsider our positions, particularly in relation to the French doctrine that is being followed for the moment, namely the doctrine of lifting the finger by saying "Do this and if you do not do so, you will be punished". I don't think that will work. Meanwhile, the jihadists continue to spread. It is also clear that we are talking about Russia and Mali, but perhaps in the course of our discussions we should also be able to listen to the ambassador of Russia or to the ambassador of Mali in order to obtain the views of these people on our approach to the problems in these regions. That is a proposal I will make.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u11	Mr President, this is a rather complex problem. We are talking about the fact that the crisis is caused by the deployment of 100,000 Russian military personnel on the Ukrainian border. No, this crisis has its origins in a NATO policy that goes back about 30 years. Today, we see that the Russian army is on the Ukrainian border and we think that there is a risk of invasion. But if we get on the other side, we see that NATO is encircling Russia, contrary to the agreements reached in the past. NATO had committed itself not to export to Eastern Europe and is doing exactly the opposite today. This was done in 1999 by bringing together Eastern countries in NATO and then in the years 2003 and 2004. There are even two countries that are close to Russia (Romania and Poland) and host NATO missile bases. Recently, it has been seen that the United States has provided arms to Ukraine for a value of 2.5 billion euros. Thirty-two countries participated in military exercises in the region. There was even a simulation of a nuclear attack on Russia by the US Army in 2021. There is therefore a context provoked by American foreign policy, in its imperialist logic, and by NATO's aggressive politeness. Now we need a de-escalation. Mr Sauer, professor of international policy at the University of Antwerp, wrote a white card in which he stated "that it would be better for Ukraine to become neutral or unaligned, as proposed in particular by Henry Kissinger, a former American minister, and as envisaged in the declaration of independence of the country of 16 July 1990: the buffer state between East and West as are Finland and Austria. Today, there are two remaining states that separate NATO countries from the Russian border: Ukraine and Belarus. If the Russians had done the same maneuvers on the American border, if they had set up military bases in Mexico, what would have been the reaction of the Americans? That's the question we need to ask ourselves. Instead, we must go towards de-escalation and try to find a diplomatic solution instead of putting oil on fire. Minister, will you go along with the statement made by the professor at the University of Antwerp instead of making the current situation worse?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u12	Mr President, the US-Russian meeting in Geneva on 10 January 2022 was part of the strategic stability dialogue. This bilateral initiative, which was re-launched by US President Biden and Russian President Putin in June 2021, focuses on reducing the risk of nuclear war and preparing future weapons controls and measures to reduce security risks. With that meeting, President Biden also wished to assure the European allies that the United States remains committed to the security and collective defence of Europe. He also wanted to make it clear that no decisions would be taken on security interests that concern the allies and partners without consulting them. The day after the talks, the United States gave an extensive briefing to NATO allies. NATO's attitude includes a dual approach through deterrent and diplomacy. The NATO-Russia Council clarified with regard to Russia the principles which are not negotiable for NATO: the defensive nature of the treaty organisation, an international order based on rules and respect for the sovereignty of the states. The NATO and allies' proposals called on Russia to keep different channels of communication open, to increase transparency to reduce risks and to prepare arms control measures. Belgium also supports this approach and attaches great importance to keeping the communication channels open with Russia in order to de-escalate the situation. Russian development at the border with Ukraine and Russian assertive language in this context are very worrying for Europe. The EU shall consult internally and with all relevant partners on an appropriate, balanced approach to this threat in order to safeguard Ukraine's fundamental sovereignty rights alongside a de-escalation of the situation at the same time. For example, the EU discussed this issue at the Foreign Affairs Council on 12 and 13 January with both Defence Ministers and Foreign Ministers. The High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Mr Borrell, is in close contact with our American and NATO partners for further consultation. NATO has asked the Member States for increased preparedness of the VJTF, as well as additional troops, if approved, to be able to deploy NATO troops in Eastern Europe. In the event of a conflict, NATO will determine the necessary capabilities in consultation with the allies. In this context, Belgium will assume its responsibilities and assess the capabilities to be undertaken to contribute to the Alliance's collective defence efforts. Our navy's readiness to defend its national territory, and thus its territorial waters, is not currently being increased. As usual, our territorial waters are continuously monitored from the Maritime Information Cross Point. The collaboration with the Netherlands within BeNeSam is about the preparation of the units. The use of military resources remains a national responsibility. Both countries consider and maintain close contact with each other as an additional maritime contribution. There is no specific question of increasing vigilance. That does not alter the fact that both countries are implementing this. There are currently no intentions to change the code of conduct of our ships in our area of responsibility for the North Sea. Russian ships are being monitored and tracked through our waters by their passage anyway. The Belgian F-16 detachment deployed in the framework of air-policing in Estonia continued its mission as foreseen. The orders of our F-16s have been clearly defined in the context of the defence of NATO airspace. The current situation at the border between Russia and Ukraine does not change that. There are clear agreements between Belgium and NATO for the transit of cargo across the Belgian territory in the framework of NATO activities. The Belgian Defence will provide the necessary support in the context of host nation support and will continue to do so in the future. For military movements, mainly infrastructure - roads, tracks and inland waterways - is used which falls within the competence of authorities at federal, regional or even local level. In other words, this infrastructure is dually used, but is not always adapted to military requirements, such as the movement of large volumes to vehicles, with sometimes dimensions outside standard, and the transport of specific material, such as ammunition. However, investment in infrastructure improvement should be planned, implemented and financed by its managers. In this context, the EU provided for a budget of EUR 1.5 billion to partially cover the financing of projects contributing to the improvement of military mobility. The dual use criterion also improves mobility for the benefit of the citizen sector. Member States are called upon to submit projects. The following projects have already been tested with the Defense Department. A project of the FPS Mobility and Transport for the installation of a parallel track of 740 metres at Montzen, which allows military trains to reach their destination more quickly without disturbing the other rail traffic too much. This project was submitted on 16 January 2022. A project of the Department of Mobility and Public Works to replace bridges over the Schipdonkkanaal and Leopoldkanaal in Maldegem on the N49 as a development and connecting axis between Zeebrugge and Antwerp. This project will not be submitted to the European Commission until 2023. The projects submitted are evaluated by the EUMS and then by the European Commission, which then makes the final choice which projects are prevented. With regard to possible support for Ukraine, NATO is currently studying several support scenarios. As a solidarity ally, Belgium will implement NATO's plans if a political decision by the allies has validated them. To date, Ukraine has not yet made a request for bilateral military support to Belgian Defence. For its part, NATO provides technological support to Ukraine in the field of cybertechnology, in particular. With regard to the Belgian attitude to supplies of arms and ammunition to Ukraine, outside NATO activities, I would refer you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Since Ukraine is not a member of NATO, the principle of collective defence does not apply. What NATO can decide is an increase in its military posture within the countries of the alliance. NATO intervention would be possible if allies were involved in the conflict and after political approval at the level of the NAC and the national government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u13	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. As I understand Dutch, it seems to me to have understood that you confirm that the Member States of the European Union are being listened to by the United States with regard to the steps taken with Russia, but also with regard to the efforts made to de-escalate the conflict, which represents an important danger both in terms of the security of our territory and in terms of our energy supply. I also understand, Madam Minister, that in the budgets you have detailed, requests would probably be made by NATO. I did not understand whether these new requests would be incompatible with other missions. Mr Franken spoke earlier about Takuba. This point remains outstanding. Of course, we will have to address the issue of national security. In this context, cyber protection must be a priority for our country. We must also strengthen our cooperation, particularly with the Netherlands, and keep our infrastructure intact.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u14	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. A number of things are painfully apparent from this situation, at least according to our group. Firstly, there is the failure of the European common foreign defence and security policy, on which much has already been said in this committee. I am far from an adept of this EU, but the policy in this area is in itself an empty box. We can see that now, but Russia can, of course, see that very clearly. The EU is not present at crucial consultations on its own security interests, even though the EU gets 36% of its gas from Russia. We're so easy to break up. That's a painful finding. For example, the EU once again shows that it cannot act jointly and firmly as a foreign actor, in spite of all the magnificence it has with regard to Russia. Secondly, the EU's military capacity and cyber capacity are lagging behind Russia's, which has invested heavily in its own defence. This is clearly demonstrated here again. We do not have enough strategic reserves at the moment to arm our soldiers sufficiently during a long-term conflict. We have just noticed that we are also particularly vulnerable in the field of cyber security. So it is right that the DOD should be concerned about that. Thirdly, there is the almost complete dependence of Belgium and Europe on NATO, and certainly on the United States, on our military security. Madam Secretary, I decide. Standby is one thing, but getting troops ready to reassure other Member States brings little progress. The years of underinvestment in Defense mean that we are not ready for a land war at the moment. That's what Professor De Vos says. He even takes the word suicide mission in his mouth. Furthermore, as far as we are concerned, Ukraine's sovereignty must prevail. As far as our group is concerned, at the moment we are only interested in a de-escalation of the conflict. So caution must be the message. We also call for calm and dialogue. Would saber-waving and weapon-crying, with a new conflict at our borders, undoubtedly Europe, which is lagging behind with the backlash of the inevitable flow of migration, serve our own interests? My group is not convinced of that at all. We are nationalists, and nationalism defends national interests, not another's.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u15	Madam Minister, thank you for the detailed answer, within the possibilities you had, in view of the previous debate. This is indeed yet another wake-up call for the European Union, which fails to speak clearly, to put structures against it. It's also a wake-up call for our country. Investing in our defence must continue to receive permanent attention, and that is what this government is doing. Moreover, this will soon be the subject of a debate in Parliament. So this is another wake-up call. Hopefully we will work on it usefully. I have another reflection on what has already been said. What shockes me greatly about the whole debate, both by politicians and academics, is how easily the principle of sovereignty is ignored here. It is as if sovereignty is a concept that can have a hundred different interpretations, which is far from our bed, which is not concrete. No, the countries of Central and Eastern Europe have decided since the 1990s to join NATO and the European Union. Every time, after decades of Marxist dictatorship, these were democratic choices. Ukraine should be able to do the same now. Does it choose Russia? Does it choose neutrality? Does it choose NATO and possibly the European Union? That choice will be for the Ukrainian people alone. We must all agree to that, in whatever direction. We are not going to put down sacred principles like sovereignty in this way as irrelevant in this discussion. It shockes me that politicians and academics do this so easily.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u16	Thank you for this nationalist reflex, Mr Pillen.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u17	So, Minister, it is clear that Ukraine has not yet requested direct support from our country and that NATO is working today on de-escalation and military agreements. I would like to talk about the European Union. I notice that the Flemish Interest and Mr Francken are very reluctant to do so. The analysis is indeed the same for me today, and we are far too little present in this conflict. My conclusion is, of course, not the same. I know that Mr Francken is a great supporter of NATO, but I note today that European interests and American interests, even if they are our ally, are not the same. The US does not suffer from the rising energy prices resulting from this conflict. Agriculture in the US is not affected by any sanctions and the consequences. The US does not suffer from the migration that Mrs Ponthier spoke about. My conclusion is therefore different. I believe that we need a common defence policy for such a situation. Mr Francken says that we cannot and will never be able to do so, and that is why we are doing what NATO and the United States are asking for. If things get out of hand, Europe will be screwed. The fact that European cooperation in this area is not evident is very clear, but it does not solve anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u18	Madam Secretary, you did not say anything about Operation Takuba, despite the fact that I explicitly asked you about it. It is important to clarify this. Hopefully it will be debated in the coming days. You were also very vague about the aid to Ukraine. The only thing I have remembered is that there is a project for the Schipdonkkanaal and for the municipality of Maldegem in the context of the military mobility of the port of Zeebrugge. Besides, I haven't heard much. I'm sure I'll find out more from my colleagues. I hear from the Communists that they are communists, that the Warsaw Pact is almost closed again and that the aggression of the United States has led the Russians to occupy Crimea. That is their reading of reality, a bit indoctrinated by Moscow, but of course I cannot blame the Communists. I also learn that nationalists only look at their own interests and that those interests prevail. I do wonder why we are still members of NATO, because there, of course, the interests are shared in the Western Alliance. If we have to work for each other, that also means that you have to prepare troops for a conflict at the eastern border, or at least in countries that are part of the alliance. I am not in favour of sending troops to Ukraine, I have not heard anyone argue for that. I'm talking about further strengthening our eastern border within the alliance. I am learning from the Liberals that, with the new Vice-Presidentship, they are reaching out and holding a whole speech on sovereignty. I find that very interesting and will pass it on to my chairman. Maybe the relations at the Antwerp City Hall can thaw a little. The debate on sovereignty must be at the centre of both sides, and I therefore welcome the fact that it is being discussed. Finally, I am learning from the Socialists that the United States is not affected by rising energy prices. Do you know why, Mr Verduyckt? Because the bearable devil, named former President Trump, has chosen shale gas and oil drilling in Alaska. There's been a big fuss about that. Ecological damage is absolute, but it's choosing or sharing. There is less war and no wars have begun under his presidency. That's a huge difference, isn't it? There is much less misery in the Middle East due to energy independence. And then this government shuts down the nuclear power stations and will have to import even more gas from Russia. What are you doing by pushing the energy debate at us again because I am shy about the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u19	Mr President, I deplore Mr Franken's enthusiastic plea for Mr Trump, but it is no big deal. Minister, thank you for your answers. Today's priority must be de-escalation by giving priority to diplomacy and the most peaceful resolution of these tensions. I believe that the European Union and therefore Belgium must play an important part in this. It is probably not very effective to let NATO deal with this threat alone. When I say NATO, of course, it is the United States, because we must not be naive about it, and we must build space for a European Union that is strong, especially through the economic path, but not just through it. This crisis shows how urgent and necessary it is to develop a defence and a policy of European external relations. This is obviously a discussion we must have with Mrs Wimès this afternoon too. In the meantime, we hear that the armies are in order to march and that each one shows his muscles. We cannot only hope that it will not be necessary to face each other physically, but above all we must act and do everything possible to ensure that this does not happen. It is all the more true that, as I recall, although everyone has that in mind, we are in a confrontation between nuclear powers. I don't have the impression that anyone feels dissuaded to this day. There is also a need to intensify global nuclear disarmament efforts. This situation shows us how important it is. Nevertheless, we must not be naive. Russia defends its interests just like NATO, just like the EU, just like Belgium, and when its interests are competing, it is clear that there is a risk of open conflict and we must therefore be prepared for all eventualities even the most extreme and even if, to date, I think and hope that there is a better chance of solving the problem otherwise.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u20	Everyone here hopes that the situation will lead to a de-escalation. However, we must not be naive and we must remain vigilant. This vigilance must not only be in the area of the shift of troops at the border, but unfortunately also at sea. This is confirmed by the increased Russian naval activity. Together with the Netherlands, we must show increased vigilance in our waters and shadows what needs to be monitored. This increased vigilance is essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u21	Minister, has Russia threatened to attack a NATO country? I didn't hear any of that. Anyway, there's a certainty. There are indeed very important provisions for the passage of military equipment through our country. I stress the need for the national authorities to be also informed of this. Because, very often, NATO considers itself in conquered land and crosses our country everywhere and no matter how. It is we who manage all the difficulties of relations, especially with people who may be a little more pacifistic than those who support NATO. Then I find that we found money to start a series of major works on the special roads. I hope it will go faster than the RER, the canal, etc. I invite you, Madam Minister, to be firm on the exact knowledge of what will be done, of the passages and transits of equipment in our country, including for NATO aircraft. Why? In the past, NATO aircraft – particularly from the CIA – wanted to use Belgian military airports. I refused that and was well inspired. In fact, an investigation into the passage of these "white aircraft" revealed that they were carrying people to Guantanamo and I was able to provide evidence that none of these aircraft, which were flying irregularly, had landed on the tarmac of the Beauvechain and Florennes airports. They landed at Ostend's private airport. Let's not accept everything and anything! It is not because we are Host Nation Support and we have NATO headquarters that we must accept everything. We also have to be respected. There's one thing that bothers me: we haven't talked about Turkey for a moment! We don't say anything! It is still a great allied country. I do not know what their intentions are in relation to their neighbours and Russia. I am sorry, but I have to go to the Conference of Presidents to prepare the same topics as those of this afternoon's meetings and tomorrow's plenary session. It's getting boring.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u22	Too bad Mr. Franken left the room! Indeed, I would have liked to ask him a question. I didn't know Russia was a communist today. It's news he's telling me. I wish I had an explanation about that. I think there is no need to mention the subject of sympathy for Mr Putin and his oligarchic regime. By the way, when the lack of arguments comes, clichés arrive that do not solve the problem. Madam Minister, there are solutions to de-escalation: the neutrality of Europe, the Minsk agreements. Let us respect the Minsk agreements! This is a way out of this crisis, except that this is not NATO's will! I am sorry, Mr Pillen, but you are aligning yourself with the words of your Liberal colleague, Mrs Wlimès, who told me in plenary that NATO is a defensive organisation. But let me laugh! What world do you live in? Virtually every war in the world today sees NATO involved. Should I remind you of Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya? Is this NATO's work of peace? Let me doubt it and not believe in NATO's will for peace and stability! He is the first person responsible today for the instability in the world. NATO is involved in all the deaths and wars of recent years. Do you think this alliance is positive? Not me! For me, it's a danger to peace. I don't want to get into this game. It is without naivety that I call for de-escalation, and that is what needs to be done. I hear that you want de-escalation, but without being naive and that it is important to prepare for this or that. A war in this part of the world today does not benefit the Russian people or the European people. Moreover, Europeans are already paying the price with the rise in energy prices. And we would continue this situation in the interests of American geopolitics? What would benefit us as Europeans? We will not emerge from this crisis until Europe leads an independent foreign policy. That is what we must strive for, not for an aggressive American logic with a NATO that has only killed so far. This body is not defensive! Mr Flahaut said something interesting by asking the question of the NATO countries attacked today and the reason why NATO intervenes! There is no reason for this! I hope, Madam Minister, that our government will work in this direction, not naively, because it is the only realistic way out of this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u23	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Francken's 55023432C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u24	Madam Minister, I have asked several questions about this in connection with negative experiences in Denmark, Norway and the Netherlands. As a policymaker, I have also learned that we can only learn from the way others try to tackle a problem. The problems in the Netherlands have led to an investigation of the Royal Netherlands Air and Space Centre. They recognize that there are complaints and problems, and they want to see how we can reduce the nuisance. They want to do this, for example, by optimizing flight procedures. This can provide useful information that we will be able to use later. We do not yet have F-35s in our country, but in the Bocholt City Council there was already an intervention in which Defence came to the committee to discuss the possible problems. Madam Secretary, can our Defence Department contact the Dutch Defence Department to look at their research results and possibly apply them? What agreements have been reached on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u25	Madam Minister, Switzerland has also purchased the F-35s. The Swiss citizens have pointed out yet another flaw. These planes would be very noisy. They produce about 127 decibels, which would cause irreversible damage to hearing. The Norwegians have also raised this problem. They would invest EUR 24 million in the noise installations of their base. Madam Secretary, what measures will you take to prevent noise? Do you have an estimate of the additional costs involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u26	Defence has contacts with the various partners in use of the F-35, including the Netherlands, as well as with the local authorities dealing with noise pollution. The local level shall be briefed on the planned capacity transition, including a reduction in the number of F-35 flight hours through more extensive use of simulators, the transfer of initial flight training to the United States and the future analysis for the adaptation of departure and landing procedures. This analysis will take account of the Dutch research. When the new infrastructure is set up, measures will be taken to minimise noise pollution. It is not possible to determine the additional costs, as these works are an integral part of the entire project.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u27	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. My question was of course inspired by the environment of Kleine Brogel, where we are already used to the sounds of the F-16's today and where I would like to keep the support, even if the F-35's get there. What you said about fewer flight hours and the simulators you have already answered, but I am pleased that you say that you will look at the Dutch study to see what it shows. It is a good thing that we are well prepared so that we can deal with the problems before the aircraft arrive.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u28	Madam Secretary, you did not answer my question about the additional costs. You say that they are contained in the whole package, but we are nevertheless concerned about any additional costs that would then be incurred by the taxpayer. We must also ensure that noise pollution for the people living around is reduced as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u29	Ms. Jadin, since Fedasil occupied part of the site of Glons, my administration has not received an official request from the municipality of Bassenge concerning the possibility of occupancy by offices leased to SMEs or local producers of the part of the site not used by Fedasil. It should be noted that the site of Glons is eligible for an alienation that would, a priori, be integral. If the municipality of Bassenge wants to take this initiative, it may consider acquiring part of it and reclassifying it in order to accommodate SMEs. With regard to your questions about the future of the Fedasil centre in Gloss, I can inform you at this stage that the concession period in favour of it is three years.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u30	Minister, that's perfect. I will pass on all this very useful information to the municipality which has asked me to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u31	Mr President, I must confess that this morning I realized that this question was still open, when I thought that our discussion last week had made it possible to consider that these questions had already been answered. Moreover, it seems to me that the debate is public, since – as you said yourself – we were all able to read in the Belang van Limburg everything that had been expressed in committee. We all regret it, of course. As far as I am concerned, I believe that a reply was given to me in committee in camera. For this reason, I will not ask my question, Mr. Chairman, if you agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u32	Last week, during the committee behind closed doors, we received an explanation of the cyberattack at Defense. Of course, there can be no harm in the debate that a number of answers can also be given in a public sitting. Then you can give a more detailed explanation. Everyone has the right to know what happened to the cyberattack, which systems are infected and which servers are still down at the moment. In the meantime, is there any more information on the origin of the cyberattack? They're speculating about that. The CHOD left open yesterday in a pilot program the indication of a certain actor on the field. Can you tell me more about that at the moment? How's the investigation going? The CHOD said yesterday that the investigation had yet to begin. Hopefully that is not the case. What impact did the attack have on the day-to-day operation of Defense, such as recording performance and additional fees? The attack will certainly not have improved the situation at HRM@Defence with its well-known problems. What's the situation now? How do you evaluate the risk of misuse of data resulting from the attack? How can the Defense decide that data can be used for wrong purposes? How can such an attack best be prevented? That's a very open question. You bet on cyber defense in general with even a cyber component. In the short term, however, a number of answers can be given.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u33	Mr Lacroix and Mr Flahaut are not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u34	My question is still up-to-date and only after we have received information last week. At the start of the committee meeting, I expressed my frustration and dissatisfaction with the fact that the information we received last week was made public. So I have a number of more strategic questions. Does the fact that that information has now escaped from the committee affect your willingness to share information with the committee? I hope not. You yourself have in the past made a complaint against a specific Member. Do you intend to take similar actions? Given the weeks-long impact of that raid on the organization, do you somehow see a need for backup systems to ensure operationality in case of any subsequent attacks, although hopefully they won't come? What influence does the attack have on the roll-out of plans and the creation of the cyber component in particular?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u35	Mr. President, on December 15, a suspicious traffic was detected on a Defence server. As a precaution, this server has been disconnected from the network. An analysis of this suspicious trafficking was then conducted internally. On 16 December, this analysis enabled the identification of other suspicious elements on another server, after which it was decided to break all links between defence networks and the outside world. A first investigation shows that unknown people used the Log4j fault to execute the attack. Adequate quarantine measures have been taken, while priority has been given to re-establishing computer applications. The Log4j fault was only announced by the Apache Software Foundation on December 9. The Defence responded quickly. As a result, as of December 10, it installed tools to counter the problem itself, as well as software updates not from Apache, which unfortunately proved to be insufficiently effective in addressing vulnerability. On December 13, Defence received a software update from Apache to address this vulnerability. This patch was installed the same day. However, the hackers had already been able to exploit the flaw, as early as 10 December, i.e. before the installation of these patches. The origin of the cyber attack and the possible misuse of data for wrong purposes can only be determined once the investigation by ADIV has been fully completed. Backup systems have already been set up. Defence operations abroad were not at risk, as the most crucial information is exchanged through classified networks. The incident was discussed in detail last week at the specially convened meeting of the Committee for Defence. It is therefore regrettable that certain information was found in the press, despite the fact that the committee meeting was held behind closed doors. The question of whether a complaint will be made is currently under consideration. In any case, I have always stressed that cooperation with the committee will be as transparent as possible. The incident does not change that intention, even though it is particularly painful and unbelievable that sensitive information is handled in such a way. Most of the affected services are now available again via the internal network or via VPN. Direct Internet access, however, remains unavailable. The current cyber threat requires continuous monitoring and updating of our systems. This is also the design of a stronger defence against cyber attacks, which is currently being pursued. The chances of a new attack will be reduced, but it would be unwise to say here that we can guarantee a zero risk of a new attack. A thorough investment in cyber security remains the best way to anticipate as much as possible, but above all to ensure the operationality of the systems. The cyber threat also requires a permanent investment in the formation of personnel at every level, from the user to the IT specialist. The attack will not have a negative impact on the current plans, but on the contrary proves once again the importance of a solid and well-developed cyber component.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u36	Madam Minister, as I said, I regret these leaks in the press. I'm reassured about how the Defence handled this attack. On the other hand, I am indeed angry because transparency is also the responsibility. If we ask for transparency in committee behind closed doors, it is in order to ensure that we are properly informed. If we can't trust each other any more, what's going to happen is that one day we won't want to know. Unfortunately, that will be understandable. You're told by an environmentalist. That's something I can't accept. I really regret this leak in the Flemish newspapers. I hope that we can regain that trust between us so that it does not happen again in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u37	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers, both last week and now, in all transparency. Defense is accused of having acted late. You spoke here about the first report on 15 December. A number of sources in ICT circles say that the leak of Log4j was already known on 24 November. If so, it is particularly regrettable. You say that the backlog of HRM has been largely eliminated; I hope that it will soon be completely eliminated, because that is still not the case. You said the origin of the cyber attack is still under investigation. We will certainly continue to follow that up. You undoubtedly agree with me that there should be sufficient investment in cyber command, the cyber component and cyber security in general. Formation is absolutely also important. I just hope that the necessary resources will be put in place. A competent staff is particularly difficult to find in view of what the private sector pays. I hope you will be well-equipped in that regard. Defense is our most crucial security device and seems fragile to foreign threats. That's what's causing us to get into some kind of hybrid war right now. We must not lose it, I hope. So you need to invest more, perhaps even more quickly in this domain, without, of course, losing sight of other aspects, such as equipment, operations and training.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u38	Madam Secretary, the person who leaked, presumably a Member of Parliament, bears a great responsibility. Parliament is shooting at its own feet with this. We position ourselves as an unreliable partner, against whom something is said in confidence, after which it ends up on the pavements. Parliament is not making a good turn here. I am pleased that it has no influence, that it will not mean any changes to the information sharing of your cabinet with Parliament. Should you warn that the doors are locked, that would have been big news. Like Mr Defossé, I also hope that you and the defence industry will learn the lessons they need. It is almost impossible for you to think twice in future and provide Parliament with the necessary information. If not, shoot yourself in the foot. You also said that you're considering filing a complaint if you find out who did it. As chairman of the committee, I myself feel responsible for leaking information. If you need help or support in this, know that you have an ally in me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u39	Mr President, since we are talking about transparency, it is also an important element. Minister, on December 18, the New York Times published an overwhelming investigation into the use of armed drones by the US army in its war against jihadist groups in Afghanistan, Syria and Iraq in recent years and especially since 2014. The newspaper concludes: "The American air war has been marked by failing intelligence, hasty and imprecise missile fire, and the deaths of thousands of civilians, including many children." While the official figures for the Pentagon are 1,417 civilians accidentally killed in Syria and Iraq since 2014 and 188 in Afghanistan since 2018, the newspaper shows that the figures are clearly underestimated. Minister, we are allies of the United States and we have been with them on several fields of operation. So can you tell me if any civilian casualties were killed by the US Army in operations that we were conducting in collaboration with the US Army? If so, do we have an obligation to communicate and be transparent about the events, even if we did not have control over the drones in question? Does this report, in your opinion, demonstrate the danger of armed drones and the impossibility of avoiding civilian casualties with this technology? In general, how do you react to this shocking information, I have to say? In advance, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u40	Mr Defossé, the Defence cannot speak about any collateral damage caused by an American drone strike. This is reflected in the exclusive powers of the US government. In general, the operational use of armed drones is subject to rules of engagement that depend on international war law. Each organization or country undertaking a mission may, if it deems it necessary, further restrict the scope of these rules for a specific mission in order to avoid as much as possible collateral damage and civilian casualties. I pay particular attention to compliance with the rules of engagement when Belgian participation in an operation and will not tolerate any relaxation in this context. Also, be aware that the government has decided that the actual weaponry of the MALE drones will not be retained as part of the ongoing update of the Strategic Vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u41	Madam Minister, thank you. I believe that this investigation should ask us all about the means we use to wage war and the responsibility we share with our allies in the wars we wage. On the means, I believe that armed drones, even if they are increasingly used, are not a human solution. We know that the use that can be made of it, especially in the case of asymmetric warfare, is very dangerous and the slope is really very slippery. The use of the drone gives the illusion of the absence of war. This is particularly the case for pilots of these drones who operate thousands of kilometres from their target and for whom the border between combat and daily life has completely disappeared. We find ourselves, as we have seen in the press, killing people between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., sometimes killing collateral and then picking up their children at school. Studies have shown that even from the pilot's point of view, it is psychologically destructive. Thank you for confirming that there would be no arming of drones in this update of the Strategic Vision. As far as accountability is concerned, I believe that we need to agree on one thing. From the moment we intervene alongside an ally who takes responsibility for so many collateral victims and blunders, this responsibility re-enacts upon us. Indeed, for the victims, no matter who piloted the drone, it is against all the belligerents that anger, hatred and the call for revenge arise. We therefore have a duty to hold our allies to account, too. And it is also a duty of testimony that we have when we witnessed such blunders.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u42	Madam Minister, the need for a common European security and defence policy was part of the debate on Ukraine earlier. When I tabled my question, there was a European summit on security and defence in Brest. Among other things, the Strategic Compass with the rapid intervention force was on the agenda. Madam Secretary, you were normally present at that summit. What was discussed there? What was the outcome of the talks?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u43	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 55024294C) by Mr Flahaut. He's not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u44	Minister, I will come directly to my questions. What were the topics discussed during these two days of the meeting? What are the conclusions? How do you feel about France's ambitions on European Defence issues during its presidency? Do you adhere to its objectives? Do you think they will be reachable?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u45	Madam Minister, in mid-January, the European Defence Ministers met with their foreign ministers to discuss European security and defence policy. As Mr Verduyckt said, we have already talked about this. The main topic was the Strategic Compass for Europe, which could provide a rapid intervention force of 5,000 soldiers. However, in view of the massive mobilisation of hundreds of thousands of Russian soldiers on the Ukrainian border, there is a fear that this intervention force will not impress the outside world. France is now chairing the EU and has been striving for a Europeanisation of the security and defence policy of the Member States for some time. It also calls for joint European armed forces, and such a European intervention force could perhaps serve as a stepping stone for some, at least dreamed EU army. Can you give a detailed explanation of what was discussed at the summit in Brest? Which safety crises were given priority and from what angle were they approached by European trade ministers? What was your position? What positions has Belgium defended with regard to the Strategic Compass, the European intervention force and the decision-making process on the common foreign and security policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u46	Mr President, as has already been pointed out, an important informal Foreign Affairs and Defence Council took place on 12 and 13 January. A number of very relevant topics were discussed. Thus, in the presence of the high representatives of NATO and the UN, there was a discussion on the growing presence and worrying influence of external actors in our foreign deployment areas, such as the paramilitary Wagner Group, which is linked to Russia. A number of topical issues were also discussed, such as Russian deployment at the border with Ukraine and the threatening language or recent political and security developments in Mali and the wider Sahel region. With regard to Mali, I have expressed our concern about the Wagner Group's presence and its failure to respect the political agenda by the Malian authorities. I pointed out the need to increase European pressure in many areas in order to change the attitude of the Malian authorities, but also the importance of keeping a channel open for dialogue. Another topic that was discussed is the vital importance of maintaining access to space, in order to safeguard both our economic and our security interests. In this domain, too, we see a growing competitiveness and an increased threat. In this context, I supported the initiative to develop a European space strategy from the security and defence perspective. Finally, the first modified version of the Strategic Compass was discussed in the presence of the Foreign Ministers. An important observation is that Member States are very aware of the geographical and thematic threats vis-à-vis the EU. This creates acceptance and a certain willingness to make the EU a more effective and credible security actor. I expressed our satisfaction with maintaining the overall level of ambition in the Strategic Compass and the addition of the issues of terrorism and non-proliferation of weapons. In addition, I have put some additional emphasis, including on the expansion of cyber defense, military support in civil crises and the importance of SMEs for the strengthening of our defence industry. Belgium will support the further development of an ambitious and realistic Strategic Compass, both the format of the document and its implementation. The priorities of the French Presidency in the field of security and defence are as follows: France highlights three priority geographical areas. Firstly, Africa, with the EU-Africa Summit of 17 and 18 February in Brussels; secondly, the implementation of a Union strategy on the Indo-Pacific, notably with the holding of a ministerial forum on 22 February in Paris, bringing together the Member States and the countries of that region and, thirdly, the Western Balkans with a conference in June 2022. Secondly, in the area of security and defence, the French Presidency of the European Union will support the work of the European Union High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy on the strategic compass and will prepare the Council for the Commission's initiatives in the framework of the Defence package. In particular, France will support work on disputed common spaces, such as cyber, hybrid, seas and outer space. France will also support defence innovation by promoting, among other things, the creation of a Defence Innovation Hub within the European Defence Agency. Finally, deepening the implementation of the European Union's partnerships will also be a priority, both with NATO and with African partners. In broad terms, I think we can support this ambitious agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u47	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for the information and, above all, for the intentions you have expressed, with all due respect to NATO and our allies in the file. One doesn't rule out the other for me. It is extremely important that we strengthen a common European security and defence policy. The fact that it is difficult has just been demonstrated in the discussion. However, I believe that it is the only way, especially in situations such as the current situation, where we are faced with a conflict that is taking place on our continent. In such cases, like everyone else in the European Union, we must be able to jump over our own shadow and work on that common policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u48	Madam Minister, I thank you for your answer, which was nevertheless detailed point by point on all the issues that have been discussed, knowing that each of the issues could be the subject of a full question and even a much broader debate. It's obvious. I believe that the situation, as Mr Verduyckt has said at the moment, is driving us more than ever to build a defence Europe, with a strong foreign policy, but also a Europe that knows where it is going, as was repeated in the debate on Ukraine earlier. I am curious to see what this French presidency is going to give. We know that we start a presidency with a French president and government, but we may not end up with the same president, and at least not with the same government. This obviously stimulates curiosity about the results of this presidency. In any case, I encourage Belgium to work towards a strong and open defence policy and foreign policy, and to show the will to do so as it is used to. With regard to Mali in particular, a question would be asked later. It will allow a little more detail to be given to this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u49	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for this specific debriefing in which a number of important points have been raised, such as cyber defense. That is, of course, very important. You also stressed the importance of putting our European security interests first. I absolutely agree with that. We mentioned during the discussion that we were unable to see this in the discussions between the United States and Russia earlier in January 2022. However, our security interests could also be put under very strong pressure. So we could say that the Strategic Compass is already being overtaken by reality at the moment. That's either a determination or an interpretation. At the moment, our strategy is still strongly determined by great powers such as the United States, but also Russia. That's getting very painfully clear now. For clarity, the European intervention force, to which European countries can contribute voluntarily, can provide a solution and be a good idea. Mr President, for our group, a European army with a European command seems to be a utopia, although that army is the wet dream of France and of some of the Open Vld managers in the European Parliament. The Member States are not on the same page at the moment, even when it comes to Ukraine. Just look at Germany and Hungary, for example, which are more cautious with regard to Russia. This is emphasised once again in this story.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u50	Mr President, Minister, Belgium has just evacuated 70 more people from Afghanistan via the Pakistani national border during a secret operation. These are persons of Belgian-Afghan nationality and Afghans whose lives were threatened because of their ties to the Belgian armed forces or our institutions. After the Taliban seized power this summer, approximately 1,400 people had been evacuated from Kabul as part of the "Red Kite" military operation. But then hundreds of others could not have been. Minister, how long had the mission been planned and planned? What was the exact date of its execution? How did the mission go? Have there been any complications? If so, which ones? Has the mission been carried out in cooperation with other countries? If so, which ones? How many Belgian-Afghan nationals or Afghans associated with Belgian services are still in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u51	Madam Minister, I refer to Mrs Jadin's extensive introduction. I have also tabled a series of questions about this operation, which we had to hear from the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u52	Madam Secretary, in the meantime, Operation Red Kite has been behind us for five months. More than 1,400 people were evacuated from Afghanistan and in recent days another 70 people have been evacuated from that country by Belgium. They're being picked up in Pakistan right now. I have tabled a number of questions which are in line with the questions put by my fellow Members. First of all, I would like to return to the fact that our Belgian Defence has been active in Afghanistan for twenty years. Many wonder what we have actually achieved with our presence there. It is clear to everyone that lessons must be learned from our efforts there and that we must take them with us for future operations. In your policy paper this was registered, by the way, and you also gave that message. The rapid implosion of the existing state structure in Afghanistan after the departure of the foreign military raises questions about our future commitment to collective security. This indicates that a process of lessons learned has been launched, both at international and national level. I'd like to hear from you about the situation. What is the timing of all these lessons learned, both at national and international level? Was Operation Red Kite part of the evaluation? Was the Department of Foreign Affairs also involved in the analysis? Are you going to come to Parliament with that? Following on from the questions raised by colleagues, can you also explain more about the latest evacuation mission in Afghanistan? How did this mission go? What people were saved? Has Belgium acted alone or in cooperation with other countries? Did anyone else find out or was this the last mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u53	Mr. President, Minister, it has now been eight months since we completed our mission in Afghanistan, and soon six months since Kabul fell into the hands of the Taliban. We then knew the "Red Kite" operation, which fortunately helped to evacuate a number of Belgians and Afghans who had assisted Belgium during all these years. Unfortunately, we had to leave people there. Last week we had the good news that a further seven hundred people had been evacuated. Minister, can you tell us more about the last evacuation? How many people exactly were evacuated? How did the evacuation take place? How do you assess collaboration with Pakistan? How does the possible collaboration with other European countries take place? How many people eligible for such evacuations are still trapped in Afghanistan? Are such operations still in preparation? I guess you can't answer everything, but I'm still asking you the question by acquiring consciousness. Has Defence, in collaboration with the External Relations and Development Cooperation departments, conducted an evaluation of our 18 years of presence on the ground? Will this evaluation be presented to Parliament and to the public committee? What are the lessons learned today and how are they integrated into our current and future procedures and decisions on foreign operations?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u54	Mr President, the evacuation of those entitled is a responsibility of the FPS Foreign Affairs. In the context of Operation Red Kite, which was part of the context of the withdrawal of the United States from Afghanistan, Defence assisted Foreign Affairs through the deployment of military assets that allowed the evacuation of a number of eligible claimants. This operation, in August, unfortunately did not allow for the evacuation of all those entitled, even though it allowed many of them to do so. As a result, a new operation was developed to assist as many legal persons as possible who remained in Afghanistan, including 37 persons who had worked for the Defence, as well as their family members. This is how new evacuations took place this month. In the context of the recent evacuation of these 37 people, Defence has supported the Belgian embassy in Islamabad with some soldiers. This small military detachment has helped the people of Defense to go through the necessary procedures to facilitate the transit to Belgium. This detachment also provided the link with the Defence Staff, to prepare the reception of these people in Belgium. Given the sensitivity of the operation and the fact that Western partner countries are still evacuating people, we cannot go into detail on how the operation went. We can tell you that, at the end of last year, Pakistan gave a number of countries the opportunity to evacuate people through Pakistan. For all other questions, I must refer you to the Foreign Minister, who was in charge of this evacuation operation. Defence therefore does not have statistics or global figures for the entire evacuation operation. With regard to operations in Afghanistan, a process of feedback has been carried out and is being carried out at multiple levels, either in NATO, the European Union or in defence. It concerns political, military and tactical aspects. NATO's first conclusions were presented in December 2021 at the NATO Foreign Ministers Summit. Among the points presented were the lessons to be learned for future evacuation operations of nationals. More specifically, with regard to Belgian Defence, emphasis was placed on tactical aspects related to the execution of field missions. However, the process of feedback on Operation Red Kite is still ongoing at the Defence Staff level. He will present it to you as soon as possible. In all cases, it is clear that the rapid deployment of Defence for this evacuation mission has demonstrated the need for better international cooperation, where Belgium must also assume its role. Operation Red Kite demonstrated criticality in the availability of strategic support capabilities and the level of tactical and logistical readiness. This is a point that will be particularly in-depth from the European point of view. In addition, Foreign Affairs is also involved in the analysis of the lessons learned. The results of this process will be included in the decision-making process, deployment modalities and tactical procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u55	Minister, I note that many answers will have to be provided by your colleague from Foreign Affairs. So I will not fail to ask him those questions that are still pending. I also hear that there will be an assessment at European level of the last evacuation missions carried out, which I welcome. It's important and necessary. There is a need to work in a coordinated manner where possible to facilitate these evacuations of people still in Afghanistan who are clearly in great danger. Thank you, Minister, for the answers. To follow...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u56	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. You know that before the summer recess of 2021 I was one of the first to ask questions in this committee about the fate of our interpreters and our fixers, people who helped the Belgian military on the ground, a very important job. So I was very happy when I read the news about this "secret" operation. I would like to congratulate you and thank you for the courage, because this kind of operation takes courage. I would also like to express my gratitude to all Belgian soldiers who have been involved, both here in Belgium and in Pakistan or perhaps in other places we do not know about and do not need to know about.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u57	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. We look forward to the results of the lessons learned. It is good that this is happening along with the FPS Foreign Affairs, which is important to learn lessons for future missions. One lesson we need to learn from this is that certain questions that we need to ask prior to military missions may not be enough, for example what political objectives we want to achieve. There are, of course, some other questions. What are our specific interests, in addition to the interests of the allies? What tools do we need to achieve the objectives? When are we gonna make an evaluation? We are very much looking forward to these results so that we can take them with us to the committees.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u58	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand the discretion surrounding this kind of operation. It is obviously necessary. If we do not want to endanger potential future operations, it is normal not to say everything. The situation on the ground is extremely worrying. It is dramatic to see how the whole country collapsed in such a short time and how the army that we formed for two decades practically dropped out without fighting. It is a cruel smack vis-à-vis the United States, NATO and Belgium. This requires not only a strategic and tactical assessment, but also a political assessment of our presence, not only in the framework of Operation Red Kite, but of all the operations in which we participated in Afghanistan. We also need an analysis and assessment of the balance of power within NATO. The evaluation must therefore be quite broad and must also focus, as Mrs Reynaert said, on the political objectives we wanted to achieve. In conclusion, I thank the services for the extirpation of these dozens of people and welcome them to Belgium, hoping that they will be followed by others who will be able to escape the madness, brutality and hatred that has taken over Afghanistan today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u59	Mr President, I am disappointed that Mr Franken is not here. Takuba, Takuba... when I answer on Takuba at the beginning of a closed committee, or now he's not here. But I guess he'll be happy to listen to us again. In 2022, Defence continued its operational commitments as a reliable partner in the alliances and coalitions of which it was a member. As such, participation in MINUSMA and EUTM in Mali is part of Defence's collective security efforts in the Sahel. The European Union, by the voice of Mr Borrell, High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, said that the EUTM mission would normally continue. The Defence is monitoring all these missions on an ongoing basis. Defence's involvement in the EUTM and MINUSMA is not at this time in question. Currently, approximately 836 out of a planned total of 1,072 military personnel are deployed within the EUTM Mali. These include 11 Belgian military personnel, 10 of whom are in Bamako and Koulikoro and one in Brussels on the support cell mission. In addition, approximately 16 Belgian military personnel are present in MINUSMA under the auspices of the United Nations in Bamako and Gao. As indicated earlier, any participation in the Task Force Takuba will be the subject of a separate dossier at the Council of Ministers. Parliament will be informed about this at the appropriate time. Belgium does not take a position on the closure of the Swedish activities in Task Force Takuba and its possible impact on the current operation. Defence is in the process of analysing all the elements to be taken into account for possible participation in the Takuba operation and carrying out the necessary reconnaissances. All these elements will form part of the dossier already announced. Medical planning is ongoing and synergies with international partners will be sought to ensure the necessary medical coverage for our staff. This is a primordial aspect for me. At the moment, the planned deployment in Mali has little impact on our NATO operation. Any deployment of the units planned for the VJTF if activated by NATO will require considerable logistical support. This could have an impact on the operations already planned. This reinforces my finding that there is an urgent need to invest in support capacities which are essential for the implementation of operations and which can also be used in domestic crises.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic671x.u60	Madam Minister, thank you for this information. I know that there will be even more in committees that will probably be held in camera. For the time being, you have set out the framework within which we are located and the conditions under which participation could be considered by our country or not. It is still important to make all the transparency on the presence of Russian mercenaries, the famous Wagner Group, for which we have enormous concerns, all the more so in view of the international news around Russia at the moment. We must therefore remain vigilant, analyse carefully and consult. I hear that these are the steps you intend to take, and I thank you for that.
