ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u1	Colleagues, Minister, on the menu this afternoon, we have a whole series of questions and we start with a topical debate on the parcel sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u2	Madam Minister, I tabled my question a while ago in connection with the review of HLN and VTM, as well as the trade union ABVV. This study showed that, despite all inspections, child labour at PostNL continues. Employees work there for 5 euros per hour and subcontractors were caught in the act employing several children, who also pressure them to lie. Meanwhile, several proposals were launched at a hearing to tackle social dumping and the race to the bottom. This situation is not only dramatic for workers, because it is a question of human rights and respect for people. She's dangerous to all of us, too. This was once again proved by the accident of the Aalst Camionette, where two people died. Vias also warns that more and more accidents occur with small vans. Following that accident, the Flemish Minister for Mobility, Lydia Peeters, stated that the European safety measures for lorries on driving and rest periods, speed limits and compulsory training should be extended to vans and that they should contact your policy cell and the Minister for Mobility. Was there a meeting yet? What steps are being proposed for package delivery companies in terms of road safety and workload? I also have a more general question. You would amend the Postal Act whereby you would oblige postal companies to work with 80% of employees. How's the postal bill coming? Are there any alternatives? What measures do you intend to take to finally stop the race to the bottom, child labour and the daensistic conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u3	Madam Secretary, my question dates back a while ago. According to a new research by VTM Nieuws and Het Laatste Nieuws, PostNL has still not managed to tackle child labour among its subcontractors in Belgium. There would still be children at work at the courier company. You now want to set up a task force to prevent the use of minors in the packaging sector in Belgium. Could you explain more about this task force? When would the task force start? Who's gonna be a part of it? How many members would it consist of? When does a report come out?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u4	Madam Secretary, you received a warm visit this morning from the postmen and women who are very concerned about their jobs, other problems and the new postal law. They want it there, but it can't be an empty box. A long time ago - I was probably one of the first to ask questions about PostNL I already suggested the idea of moving in the direction of the 70/30 scheme, which already exists at DHL International. You didn't think that was a bad idea and you worked on it. Now you are talking about an 80/20 scheme in the long term. Meanwhile, there was the broadcast on VTM, part of PostNL's leadership was in prison and the company was inspected. It has been shown that there is child labour and trafficking in human beings. All the Members of this House have reacted with great indignation, saying that this is unacceptable and that we must not allow such abuses, which are no longer of our time, to happen again. But very soon, we have to establish that some of the coalition partners weren't there for your postal bill. Soon it sounded that the free competition must be able to play. But look what that freedom and the murderous competition brings. The murderous competition, I repeat, once again makes things possible, as in the case of PostNL. Recently, I heard from trade union representatives at courier companies that the employers' organizations are working hard to undermine your postal law, because the postal law would not be good for the courier companies. We know the tricks of the divide-and-control-politics. Madam Secretary, you promised to do that. There's got to be a postal bill that's gonna take care of things. We don't want that law to become an empty box. It must curb current practices. Does the government still support your bill? When do you intend to submit it to Parliament? We are now hearing that the draft post-law is being watered down under pressure from coalition partners and under patronial pressure. Is that right? Did you withdraw the first text and are now working on a second one? If so, what is its content?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u5	Minister, I gather my questions. I will begin by telling you that this subject has been of concern to us for many months regularly. See you, see you again, in plenary or in committee. This subject has been discussed for a long time. My first question, for example, about the accident that occurred on May 16th, when a delivery van from PostNL hit two ladies, resulting in their death. This is a road accident and its exact circumstances must be established. Nevertheless, it is certain that the increase in the number of delivery vans on our streets has an impact on traffic and road safety. This has been discussed with you several times and with the company's managers. Road safety is a new challenge identified in the inter-federal road safety plan. The increase in online shopping results in an increase in the number of delivery cars and in the number of speed races for fast delivery times. The causes of accidents can be multiple and some accident-causing factors are obvious, including the quality of working conditions - an important factor for the safety of delivery agents, road users and public space in general. This subject is well documented. Many private parcel delivery operators have no regard either for the working conditions of their workers or for their rights. We've had a lot of debate. The exploitation of low-skilled workers has unfortunately become the norm, in disregard of workers' rights and international treaties. It's become a business as usual. In the face of this situation, there is an urgent need to establish a strong regulatory framework. It has been promised, but time is passing and it is even more urgent to intervene. Another element that I would like to highlight in this report is the fact that the social tension is currently high at bpost, a company which has a tradition of dialogue and consultation. We learn that the unions on the common front boycotted the monthly meeting with the CEO. What is at stake is a fear that the public undertaking will align itself with competition and use external subcontractors, independents, to reduce the number of contractors. This anxiety is there, and yet these workers have allowed the emergence of the parcel delivery sector, to compensate for the decrease in the volumes of mail. They have made their part of the way and are waiting for policy and government initiatives to impose sustainable social rules on the sector and refuse a levelling down of working conditions. The mechanism should be pulled up and not let it go down. This social conflict is not a fatality. There are weapons to address this problem. A deliverer who does not choose or, or when, or what he delivers, with a van that does not belong to him, at rates that he does not fix, is not an independent, but an employee. No one is asking for a bpost advantage; we are asking for uniform and sustainable rules to be laid down for the whole sector. We wish to see an end to the exploitation of low-skilled workers, as we have often repeated in this committee. What is the time frame for the introduction of this legislation that protects sustainable use in the delivery of parcels? This is the only answer to avoid a social conflict in the company, which we all want to avoid.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u6	Mr President, I have a question about the organisation of the debates. You asked a question about the social climate within bpost. Ms. Vindevoghel and I have questions on the same subject, which have been developed 12. Does the Minister intend to make a comprehensive response under item 1 or split her responses? If that is the case, I shall confine myself to my first question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u7	I would just like to make it clear that the president does not set the agenda; that is the role of the secretariat with the minister's office. As my question was put in the topical and urgent debate, I asked it at that time. Having said that, it is a grouping of questions, but I asked my question when I saw it on the agenda. If there is another item on the agenda, then Madam will come back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u8	I will therefore ask my question at a later stage. Madam Minister, the context is well known and our Committee on Mobility has worked extensively with the Social Affairs Committee during these hearings on working conditions in the delivery sector. The findings - which have the merit of being clear - are as follows: the existence of subcontractors not registered in the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises (BCE), the maintenance of 30% of infringements found, despite the announcement of controls by the Social Inspectorate, which shows the feeling of impunity on the part of these companies in the face of the risks of fines and sanctions, the lack of knowledge of social laws by the independents who are at the end of the chain and which these subcontractors rely on... In these circumstances, the price argument put forward by some in order not to change the legislation seems rather weak, as the problems noted are enormous. These are social problems, both for our social standards, for our workers and for our environmental standards. Among the points raised, and I think it is necessary to be quite open, these hearings have shown that they are multiple. Of course, there is the draft legislation that is subject to consultation, but the information and social research services have mentioned, among other things, some avenues for data exchange. Thus, different control services can already be activated today (the Labour Auditorate, the Judicial Police, the Tax Office, the Foreigners' Office for Foreign Labour or the Mobility FPS for Transport Licences). A tightening of the reliability requirements for transport companies could also be a way to punish companies in default and to register companies that commit infringements, in order to remove the wrong actors who do not comply with the rules. I think this is important for workers and for those in this sector. My questions are similar to those of my colleagues: what is your work agenda on this issue, and in particular the follow-up to your draft bill? What do you think of the various proposals raised, in addition to your own bill? What is the status of discussions with your government colleagues, particularly the ministers responsible for economics and mobility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u9	Madam Minister, I am indeed pleased that we can once again debate this extremely important subject in view of the abuses in the field of parcel delivery. These abuses are appalling and surprising. As Febetra's representative explained, who had the opportunity to be heard in Parliament on 14 June, the sector is heavily regulated, in any case in theory. In practice, it can be seen that the complexity and organization of this highly competitive sector give rise to abuses that the law alone, in any case as currently drafted and applied, does not allow to be applied. For this reason, the trade unions in the sector have made an urgent appeal for rules to be laid down to prevent them from being drawn down at all times. They include "big players like Amazon and others, who take delivery companies and a subcontractor, who himself takes another subcontractor, who ultimately uses an independent". They also denounce delivery prices which often leave hardly one euro per parcel, or even less, to the delivery person. So, if he wants to cover his costs, he has to transport between 150 and 200 packages over a single day, which is obviously untenable. Hence my questions, which join those of my colleagues: What is the status of the work on amending the postal law that you have repeatedly announced with a view to better protecting all of these workers? Will this change be done well in consultation with the social partners in the sector? How will you ensure fair competition, but also a more sustainable package market? Do you intend, as you have also announced, to attack the work of minors - this has been mentioned by some of my colleagues - and if so, within what time and how? What is the status of the Federal Task Force, which has been announced to combat the work of minors in the parcel sector in particular? More generally, what are you doing to enforce current laws and regulations? For example, how are controls and their follow-up ensured? How do you intend to protect bpost from the pressure exerted by giants like Amazon – hence the link with the current debate that will take place just now – that manage to impose unacceptable pressure on workers in an entire sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u10	Mr President, I should like to begin by saying that your question relates to two themes. The last question on the agenda is more specifically about tensions at bpost. So I'll answer that at that time. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions in this topical and urgent debate. We have known the abuses in the parcel sector since the first facts came out at the end of last year. From that moment on, we started a process to make the sector more sustainable. Today we are talking about social sustainability and it is good that we can discuss this again. I shall start with road safety because a number of questions have been asked. First of all, I would like once again to express my sincere condolences to the victims who have fallen in recent months in the event of accidents during the delivery of packages. We all know the phenomenon of camionettization that is due to the explosion of e-commerce. The increasing presence of vans in our streets poses challenges in terms of driving and parking behaviour for parcel delivery companies, but also in terms of road safety, mobility and air quality. As you know, I have also indicated this in my last policy paper as a particular challenge that I would like to address. The dramatic accidents of the last few months show that package delivery companies, which are very often required to operate in precarious conditions, are thus at great risk in terms of road safety, which is totally unacceptable. Strangely enough, very few data were available. To better map that problem, we have ordered a study from Vias institute, the former Belgian Road Safety Institute, an initiative that was also included in BE CYCLIST, the bike plan of the federal government. Coincidence or not, this morning we had a meeting with Vias institute and with a number of experts from the field, a round table where the results of that study were discussed and where the phenomenon was confirmed. That was a round table with civil society, governments, industry and academics. A number of best practices have been cited there. I thought it was important to order this study and organise the round table, so as to be able to come up with policy proposals from there, specifically in the area of road safety. We must say, however, that the postal operators are already doing a great deal in this area. It's definitely not like nothing's gonna happen. On the other hand, projects have also been identified to improve the driving and parking behaviour of parcel delivery companies. I will also support these projects under my authority. Minister Gilkinet and Flemish Minister Peeters are also aware of this initiative. They were represented there and we work together with all the relevant ministers. We are working on road safety as a separate topic, but this is not separate from the debate on the difficult working conditions of parcel delivery workers, who are under very high pressure to deliver as many packages as possible in the shortest possible time. I hope I no longer have to convince you that the fight against tax and social fraud is a priority for our government. That was the case at the start of the government, and it will continue to be the case. That is why we absolutely want to tackle the problem of social dumping and fraud in the package sector. As you know, this is a phenomenon that occurs mainly during the last mile. We will address this problem by amending the Postal Act, as discussed in the government during the budget conclave of October 2021. This was thus already decided within the government before the first reports on this matter appeared on television. So we are not behind the facts, this was already planned. It's got to be good, and it's got to be waterproof. I'll come back to this later. The starting point is that the postal law must ensure fair and sustainable competition within the sector, so that all parcel delivery providers can work under better working conditions, regardless of their status. That is a very important sentence in my speech and I would like to emphasise it. This approach will safeguard fair competition. I have had quite a lot of criticism over the last few months. Furthermore, attention is also paid to the safety and well-being of the postal servicemen on the road. I will come back to that later. One of the partial questions was about the announced task force following the latest scandal in which minors were found. The task force is an initiative that I started myself. Given the powers of all those involved in these issues and because fraud is a complex problem, it seems logical to me that this should be dealt with jointly by all the ministers involved. That's all it is. It's no less than that, but it's no more. It's not just another talk barracks that's gonna deliver a report every year. It is simply the agreement that we will regularly sit with the relevant ministers on this subject alone. Otherwise, everyone's in their own corner doing all kinds of business. Of course, it is about the ministers, the Cabinets and the administrations that have expertise in all the sub-domains involved. Why? Because powers are with me, through the postal law. In fact, however, social fraud is a matter for Minister Dermagne, so it is obvious that he is also involved. Since it is also about mobility, Minister Gilkinet is also involved. It is about adjustments that may be necessary to transport legislation, or more inspections, a competence of Minister Dermagne. Another starting point for what we are going to do is that I am convinced that the real social, economic and environmental costs must be taken into account for the delivery of packages. The current situation acts as if the social and ecological costs do not exist. Someone else is paying for it. Who's paying for it? The delivery guy, the environment, I don't know. These costs must be internalised. This is also an important starting point for what we are going to do. This means, for example, that we as a government must guarantee a social minimum. That needs to be documented. Package delivery providers need a standard that brings fair working and wage conditions. After that, the market will have to organize itself. We set the standards, an important principle, regardless of the statute. I understand that this will not happen. You understand, we will not be able to arrange this because there is no majority for it. We're gonna do it another way, we're gonna offer every package delivery guy the protection we think he should enjoy them. So we are going to work on the content, not just on the statute. As a result, business models will have to be adapted and the market will be affected. Of course, this is not possible if we set the standards in this way. I am talking more about this. I am just going to outline the broad lines. Deloyal competition will be tackled hard wherever it occurs. There's no such thing as free. I told you, it's the delivery guy who delivers the package that pays the price for the free delivery. At the hearings on 14 June in the Joint Committee on Mobility and Social Affairs, you heard that subcontracting in the sector is a widespread business model among many operators. That business model is meant to reduce costs and thus ensures a race to the bottom. We must not make sure that the bar goes down everywhere, but that it goes up everywhere. Many questions have been asked about the status of my draft bill. As you know, we have submitted a draft bill for public consultation. We received 132 contributions and analyzed them all in depth. We have also sought advice from the Social Information and Research Service (SIRS) and the Advisory Council on Social Criminal Law. These opinions have been dealt with. In addition, we asked the BWIPT for an economic impact assessment. The results have already been discussed within the government. Finally, I asked the University of Antwerp to critically analyze my draft bill. This has been analysed from a legal point of view, including on compliance with European law, on which I have already received a number of comments, but also from an economic point of view, so that we can properly assess the effects. For me, sustainability includes three pillars: economic sustainability, environmental sustainability and social sustainability. If we don't have a business case, it won't work. Economic sustainability is also important. Those three were all taken. We have received many responses to our public consultation. The University of Antwerp considered that the draft law should be improved to ensure its effectiveness. We therefore asked him to prepare a systemic approach that could solve all the problems. It carried out this task within a fairly short period of time. The package of measures to achieve an effective approach was proposed to the government on 22 June. It will be discussed in more detail in the near future. We haven't been with each other in the last few weeks or months. I've heard this criticism from time to time. Don't believe it at all! What's our schedule? I'll come back to the details. I'll tell you what we're up to. The amended proposal will be put into a legislative text in the coming weeks. That takes time, especially because it is a very complex matter. We have listened to all stakeholders, which has improved the design. That is also the way I want to do policy work, i.e. evidence-based, based on analyses, data and studies. It takes time. If we succeed in our proposal, the inspection services will have a more efficient enforcement tool. Together, we will also be able to ensure, across the spheres of competence, that package deliveryers are better protected, not 80% but the full 100%. As one of you suggested, that is the intention. Mrs Vanrobaeys, driving and rest periods have also been considered. We'll take that. We would like to go to the Council of Ministers as soon as the texts are available. However, this will not be possible before 21 July 2022, as you will understand. It should be possible soon after the summer. I am absolutely asking for the support of all those present here who are suing the abuses in the sector. After all, I want the parcel delivery staff no longer to be pushed with their backs against the wall, to work for lower wages or under poor working conditions. The race to the bottom in terms of working conditions must stop and the abuses must be contained. What am I actually thinking about? I will try to go into this by giving the advice we have received from the University of Antwerp and by indicating what the skeleton will be of the proposal we will be discussing within the government. Firstly, an absolute condition is our requirement for transparency of the parcel companies, which makes the fragmentation that arises on the parcel market clear and transparent, whereby operators work with subcontractors who work with subcontractors themselves, so that no one knows who is working for which operator. This clarity and transparency will enable us to know who is on the way to what company and where. The parcel sector is now a black box, so the inspection services can only do half their work and it is difficult to check whether companies respect social legislation. Regardless of whether they work with paid parcel delivery workers or self-employed subcontractors, we need to know who is working when and for whom, from which depots they leave, with how many packages and with what remuneration. Companies must report on this. If they follow the rules perfectly now, that will make no difference to them. I absolutely want all package companies, large or small, to comply with this transparency obligation. That's a no-brainer, if you ask me. In addition, we also want to prevent package delivery workers from being burdened with too much inhumane work or getting unfairly low compensation. The workload, the number of packages per day, the number of hours driving a day, and the remuneration they get, that's what it's all about. We have learned from the analyses that have been done that there are different ways of enforcing this. We can, for example, enforce legislation to ensure that package suppliers have decent working conditions by imposing legal minimums or maximums. Or we can determine the share of fixed contracts a company should have, which is the minimum remuneration that self-employed delivery workers should receive. Or we can put a brake on the hours the delivery guys have to perform. Those are the parameters that are at stake. We can also proceed in a different way, namely by asking the sector to protect its employees itself. If postal operators do not wish to use quotas in one way or another, they may try to meet certification requirements. Certification is a very important element in the proposal we will be presenting. If a company can prove that the parcel delivery companies receive a decent remuneration and work normal hours, I do not necessarily need quotas for the status of employees. After all, I understand that this was a stumbling block in the first proposal we made. But then the company will have to prove that it meets all the conditions. This can be done through certification. A company can, if it wishes, deliver cheaper than a competitor, for example because it distributes packages with a cargo bike, rather than with a van, because the fixed costs are lower in this way. Technological resources can also be used in the future to create economies of scale. In this way, we will not restrict entrepreneurship and innovation. To make this workable, there is another instrument that we can come up with, namely the digital tachograph. Then it's about driving and rest periods. Bus drivers and truck drivers are already using them, mandatory, to map their driving and rest periods. The drivers of vans could also use them. In this way we can achieve a good balance between free enterprise, which is very important for a number of people, and the well-being of employees. To finish, you understand that we will change the strategy. We are no longer imposing standards on the minimum percentage of fixed contracts, because this standardisation is wrong to assume that others may need less protection. That is why we say that the conditions that these people will be working on must be met 100% in the sector. We do, however, release workers under which contracts they are recruited. We are now putting that option on the table and we will discuss it further in the government. I am convinced that this option meets our objective, and I hope that it is also an acceptable option for a majority in the government and in Parliament. I want to make haste, I really don't want to waste any more unnecessary time, because it's about the well-being and rights of a lot of people who are currently working in that sector under bad conditions. It is a responsibility that we must all accept.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u11	Minister, thank you for your detailed answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u12	Madam Minister, as far as the task force is concerned, I welcome the establishment of cooperation. Of course, the fight against tax and social fraud is a priority, but there must also be cooperation in this area. For example, in the case of regular traffic checks, agents should be aware of social dumping in that sector. However, it is not enough to focus only on such ex post controls. You are well aware of that. One cannot put an agent on every street corner, the same goes for the social inspectors. We also see, even with all inspections, that sometimes it still goes on. You have proposed solutions. For me, there is still an element of authority. You are also not completely excluded from working with employees' statute. The hearing showed, I think, that Professor Verheyen also said, that the most important thing is that the people who work there, regardless of their status, have good working conditions, an income that is decent and able to drive in a reasonable way and not have to fly around 12 hours a day at 1 euro per package. That objective is the most important. People have to be protected. A self-employed person can also not make a living of 1 euro per package, let alone pay social security contributions. It is important to provide for a minimum. I had some criticism of joint and several liability, in the sense that this does not change the statute. Those people need to be able to enjoy minimum protection, that's what needs to change. I also fully support the accelerated introduction of the digital tachograph for smaller vans. That can change a lot for their terms of employment. They must therefore respect driving and rest periods and avoid a camionettization. I have an additional proposal, which I have not heard, namely to provide for higher rates for fast deliveries. Could this possibly be included in the proposal? Research also shows that few consumers want their package to be on the doorstep in the morning. People are willing to wait two or three days for their package. This could be a solution to reduce the workload and competitive pressure in the sector a little, so that pack couriers can work in a reasonable way. For me, the most important thing, even if it is a mix of measures, is that the people who work there are protected, that child labour and trafficking in human beings are excluded, and that we can finally put an end to that race to the bottom, even though checks will still be needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u13	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. Last week, illegal workers, illegal immigrants and people without a driver's license were arrested. It is best that checks are carried out, and hopefully they will continue to be checked, because it is really necessary. This is about employment, and the most important thing is that people can stay here and not go abroad. We need to be able to keep them here and stimulate them. So I'm really looking forward to the new postal bill. Hopefully it will come after the recess, and at least as soon as possible, because there is an urgent need for a solution. You spoke of the tachograph. Isn't it already in the mailboxes? Or was that the way it used to be? One last point about tachographs: in the past they could be reversed. It was cheated on, with the hours and everything. That needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u14	Madam Secretary, you are clearly plundered for the patronage and Open Vld has prompted you to do so. The postal bill is buried. It's very clear to me. Your idea of 70 or 80 % is buried. I now understand the angry reactions of the postmen. Mrs De Sutter, let me give you an example. A few weeks ago, there was a fatal accident at Infrabel by working with subcontractors who, in turn, work with subcontractors. You think you can fix that with what's on the table right now. I don't believe any of that. I'm very angry and I'm very sorry. We had a lot of hope that this postal law would be a step forward. But people's statutes haven't changed. I have here a book from the BATK about people who work at courier companies with good statutes. That is what we wanted to go for: good statutes for employees. With your proposal, everyone will be able to go back to sub-contracting. I've talked to a lot of people who work sub-contracting. Do you have any idea what working conditions they have to work in? I don't believe you if you tell me you're gonna try to work something out. I'm very worried, and I'm really not naive. Now they have the opportunity to circumvent the law in all possible ways. The postal bill is buried, and for me that is a great disappointment. For the many people who believed you would do something, nothing will change.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u15	Minister, I note from your answers that there are consultations. For my group, there is an urgent need to intervene and the added value of certain consultations can be questioned. It is certain that drifts and exploitation are still present on the ground. We believe that the roots of evil must be addressed. The Social Inspectorate and the judiciary are doing their job, there are several ongoing proceedings with arrests and even imprisonment. Despite this, bad practices continue. You say that we must control and combat social dumping and I join you. But that will be insufficient. It's curative, but it's got to be preventive. If the intention is there, we must now take action. Nothing is buried, there is no fatality and one must continue to hope for a project. The preliminary draft is under discussion with the University of Antwerp and I do not know at what stage this reflection is at. We want a precise timetable. Can you give any guidance on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u16	Minister, I would like to remind you that you are the first person to address these societal issues in front of you that are far beyond the scope of your jurisdiction. You don't just have allies in this case, as we've seen in recent months. I have two points. First of all the conditions: to break the black box of the sector, to strengthen the measures of control, coordination and stronger sanctions for social or road safety offences. It is the work that is under way, with a need for a quick landing in order to be able to send a strong message to PostNL et al. and their shareholders that impunity in Belgium has ended. If you're fraudsters and organize activities that look like organized and legal crime, it's over. The message must be very clear and strong on the part of the government. To do so, concrete measures are needed. They are being developed, but they are needed quickly. Every week, we actually have revelations. This framework and impunity, which will be pursued on a daily basis, must also constitute a level playing field where, whatever the statutes, the worker who exercises at the end of the chain the working conditions which preserve him socially, but also in terms of his safety. It's essential. Regarding the level playing field, it is understood that unfortunately there are blockages on the modalities and that there is a need to adapt. It's still a little blurry about how we're gonna land. Indeed, we do not all agree, but it will be necessary to have first steps quickly before returning to a broader framework. That's what we support. Freedom of enterprise must not be at the expense of our social and environmental standards. In relation to this point, the question of prices is fundamental. Organised pressure on prices makes conditions and practice in the sector unbearable for these players. Here too, taboos must be lifted on the search for broken prices at all costs, especially for questions of express delivery.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answer. Like my colleagues, I have no doubt about your voluntarism on this issue and therefore the work that is being done today to make this sector more sustainable and to ensure that competition is always fairer. Today, it is unacceptable that, under the guise of offering delivery conditions that are of interest to the consumer, it is the workers who trincate and that the basic principles of labour law are not respected by companies with, as you have said, ever more dangerous working conditions, sometimes fatal accidents that should have been avoided, infernal rates, timed toilet breaks, body searches sometimes at the entrance of companies, etc. I'm glad there's a law in preparation. You have explained the steps, opinions and consultations that are underway. I welcome this, but I must regret, like my colleagues, that this law does not respond to the urgency of finding a solution to this situation. While you are consulting, abuses continue. You have listed some key measures, but I remain on my hunger, in particular with regard to the following four points. First, with regard to ongoing collaborations, you explained that work was being done with the University of Antwerp. It would have been interesting to know whether other universities also had a say or whether or not they responded to the public consultation. Secondly, with regard to the timetable, you say that the draft could be adopted in the coming weeks. Does that mean that it could be adopted before or after the parliamentary holidays? You mentioned an economic impact assessment of the IBPT that was discussed in the Council of Ministers. An important step has therefore been taken. Does that mean that we can hope that this project will land in Parliament before the parliamentary holidays? Thirdly, with regard to the monitoring of the laws in force, in particular those relating to the work of minors, I do not see the state of play. However, this task force must be able to express itself before this project is tabled. Fourthly, with regard to the cost of deliveries, you say that the social, economic and ecological cost must be charged. I fully agree with you on this point, and I can only follow you when you talk about minimum pricing. We know that as long as there are free or almost free deliveries, the problem will never be solved. But there is also a need to act upstream in order to reduce the cost as such by raising awareness, for example, of the carbon footprint of such deliveries. In my view, there is a real need to raise public awareness on this issue. In any case, it can only be seen that this sector is one of the only ones that could have enriched itself during this crisis. So the least he can do is put his hands on the portfolio to invest in the safety of his workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u18	Mr President, I would like to return to a few points, without reopening the debate we have just had. I hope everyone is convinced that we are continuing, moving forward and that our ambition has not changed at all. Mrs Dewulf, the tachograph is currently required by law in respect of lorries, not vans. The introduction of a digital tachograph, which cannot be reversed, can indeed be a means of controlling driving and rest periods. So we're definitely taking that element with us. Mr Delizée, on the calendar, tomorrow we have an intercabinet meeting. What I am proposing here will be submitted to it tomorrow and we will continue until we have an agreement in principle before the summer to start writing legislation changes. It takes work and it is a work of precision. No, we won't come with the texts to Parliament until the holidays, Mrs Rohonyi. This is not possible because we need to continue the work on principle. Finally, ecological sustainability is another project we are working on. We will come soon with proposals. If they are linked, however, they are separate projects. We don't want to get everything together because it's hard enough already, but we're working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u19	The current affairs debate is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u20	Mr Freilich is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u21	Madam Minister, you replied to my written question and it shows that the situation regarding the language skills of the postal staff employed in the Brussels post offices is staggering. Of the 2,767 people employed in the 46 Brussels post offices, only 451 or 16.3% are Dutch speaking, compared with 2,316 French speaking. Barely 34% of those Dutch speakers have the necessary bilingualism certification, but the situation is really dramatic for French speakers. Only 134 of the 2,316 French speakers have the necessary bilingualism certification. That's not even 6%. This has the effect that in 19 of the 46 post offices in Brussels, no Dutch-speaking or French-speaking people have a bilingual certificate and that Dutch-speaking people cannot therefore be served there in their own language. It can also be said differently: Dutch speakers only have one chance at five.... 21 %.. to get a postman at the point of contact who knows their language, while that chance is 89 % for French speakers. In your reply to my written question, you wrote that the customers can also be helped in two languages by persons who have not obtained a language licence. That would surprise me very much. A desk clerk who doesn't get any further than the words goodbye in Dutch and thank you of course doesn't offer bilingual services. In any event, Bpost as an autonomous public body is subject to language legislation. I had therefore submitted this question to the Minister for the Interior, who is responsible for language legislation, but she referred me to you. According to language legislation, individuals must be able to speak in French and Dutch in Brussels post offices. The figures you have given me clearly show that bpost is systematically and massively violating those provisions. This is unacceptable for a city that is the capital of a country of which the Dutch speakers are the majority for the time being. What measures will you take to ensure that Bpost complies with language legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u22	Mrs Pas, first of all I would like to mention the importance of language in general and then specifically the situation in the Brussels offices. You know that bpost as an autonomous public body is subject to language legislation on administrative matters. Bpost makes all the necessary efforts to ensure that language legislation is respected as effectively as possible, but at the same time it is an autonomous company operating in a fully open market, in which its services are offered in competition with other operators. In addition, reputation and customer friendliness in this context are very important for bpost. For this reason, the knowledge of the two national languages is very important for bpost, even without legal obligations. That is why all employees are given the opportunity and are also encouraged to take language lessons and thus update their language skills. I will come back to a number of concrete initiatives on this subject. However, it is sometimes necessary to involve employees with a rather limited knowledge of the language of the country concerned in order to ensure the provision of services. For the sake of clarity, those employees do of course meet all other job requirements. With regard to the language skills of the ticket agents employed at the 34 Brussels post offices - you mentioned 46, but the exact number is 34 - you say that sometimes they do not go much further than good day and thank you. That's a bit of violence in reality, isn't it? For many years, bpost in Brussels has systematically stressed the fact that it is essential to practice the second language on a daily basis, in cooperation with the office owners. To give you an example, when it comes to timetables, employees who are bilingual are given priority in choosing permanent services, which is a strong incentive to learn the language. Although not all employees are officially bilingual and thus have obtained a language licence, this does not mean that they would not speak Dutch at the counter. You know that learning a language is a long process. Weekly meetings and daily briefings are held in both national languages and both oral and written communications between bpost and its employees are conducted in both languages. All communication is completely bilingual. This is done to stimulate the learning of the two national languages. Staff are also encouraged to acquire the language license. As I have just said, it is in the interests of the employee to know the two languages, in order to give priority to setting the timetables. Language is not something that emerges in the analysis of complaints or incidents occurring in the offices. The result of the many efforts is that more than 40% of the permanent staff are officially bilingual in the 34 Brussels post offices. That is a different figure than the one you mention. This is a good result in relation to the population composition. You'll agree with me. Moreover, the figures you use include the full staff of bpost, including the postmen assigned to Brussels post offices. You have added these figures, so that the language ratio we are talking about, namely people at the window, is misrepresented. Therefore, on the basis of the data I receive from bpost, I can say that the 34 Brussels post offices are really trying to ensure a quality and bilingual service to residents by using their bilingual office staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u23	Madam Secretary, I would like to thank you for your detailed answer. I fully agree with you if you are right to point out the importance of bilingualism and say that it is very important, even independently of the legal obligation. You mention a number of things, such as the timetables and the communication that takes place in two languages. However, I have to note that the efforts that are being made indicate that bpost stresses that it is essential to practice both national languages and the incentives apparently not enough to comply with language legislation. However, I do not agree with you when you say that it is enough to make efforts to respect the law as well as possible. The law must be respected. The fact that 40% of permanent employees are officially bilingual is not a good result. If a person has not passed an examination on sufficient or basic knowledge of the second language, he or she may not even be appointed under language legislation. I will look at the figures of the permanent staff in relation to the temporary staff, but even though you are nuanced, you cannot deny that there is still an essential problem and that bpost will still have to apply to comply with language legislation. In this sense, I regret that I have not heard from you any additional measure to move it in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u24	Question No 55026298C by Mr Vicar is transformed into a written question. Mrs Marghem is not present to ask her question No 55026736C. Let me turn to item 5 of the agenda, which contains two attached questions, namely your President's question No 55026800C on the return of a government commissioner to bpost and Proximus and Mr Freilich's question No 55027819C on intolerable situations in the parcel sector. I believe that the correlation of issues needs to be revisited. I don't think there's any connection between the two.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u25	Mr Delizée, Mr Freilich asked a question about the observer whose title did not correspond, but whose content was linked to yours. As a result, I have an answer in two languages that I will try to translate. Your question concerns the way forward for optimising channels of communication with publicly traded companies. As Minister of Public Enterprises, I have always wanted to fully exercise my powers. This implies a duty to assume political responsibilities towards Parliament and the House. To do this, I need to be aware of the important decisions of public enterprises. Since the government commissioner's position in publicly listed companies was abolished in 2015, the information duty of the Minister of Public Enterprises has disappeared. In order to remain informed, we have a number of avenues: for example, the adaptation of the law of 21 March 1991 on the reform of public enterprises with the aim of installing an observer on the board of directors of Proximus and bpost. I have never intended to return to a Commissioner of the Government, the duties of the observer being different from those of the Commissioner of the Government. We have not reached an agreement within the government on this. But we received an agreement in principle to explore a second track: the relationship agreement. This involves binding agreements with the board of directors of public enterprises so that the board of directors and management play cards on the table with the government. In other words, it is a policy without surprise. These are the terms we used (no surprise policy). We have entered into consultation with the two public companies for the practical implementation of such a relationship agreement. to be kept informed of what is happening in public undertakings must be done in compliance with the rules applicable to conflicts of interest and insider trading. Therefore, and this is where this blocked, for each track we explore, we must take into account all applicable laws and rules, in particular those contained in the European Union Regulation 596/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on market abuse, as well as the applicable directives of the Autorité des services et marchés financiers (FSMA). I hope to reach a relationship agreement within the weeks following the holidays, to be fully able to exercise my skills in public enterprises and to take on my political responsibilities in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u26	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I still have a vivid memory of our discussions on the Golden Palace affair and the fact that we did. In fact, there was a lot of hypocrisy on the part of a political group that accused you of not being informed, as a representative of the main shareholder, while defending the initiative to abolish the government commissioner under the previous legislature, which would have allowed better information. In this debate, we talked about an institutional evolution that would allow us not to find ourselves in this kind of situation. To any misfortune something is good, you have to draw the conclusions and try to improve the situation for the future, what you are doing here. I take note of your answer as to the direction that is being taken, as several options were possible. We will wait for the project, aware that it takes time to realize. We will support any initiative that will allow the government to be properly informed so as not to have this type of surprise and to be able to act accordingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u27	Madam Secretary, Proximus launched the Doctor app in June 2021. I have a lot of questions, but I will go straight to the most important. According to the website of Proximus, this app is completely free. However, a newspaper article has now been published: from August onwards, no more free consultation of a general practitioner by telephone. Is that about the same thing, or not? That's my supplementary question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u28	Mrs Dewulf, the Docktr app aims to bring people with a care question into contact with their own GP or another qualified doctor. That's the principle. The app was launched in the summer of last year. It's been downloaded 150,000 times. User satisfaction score is 94 %. The number of doctors entering this system is constantly evolving. I can't give exact figures, but there's definitely no shortage of available doctors. That was one of your written questions. If doctors are active on that app, they can also fall back on a helpdesk for technical support. I believe this was a partial question from you, too. Apart from the app, the RIZIV also provides financial support for the use of these instruments through the integrated practical premium for general practitioners. Since January of this year patients can consult their own doctor or another general practitioner via video consultation. The patient must register for the first time via itsme, and when a conversation is made with the regular GP there is of course already a therapeutic relationship, so the doctor can simply continue working on the patient's medical record. In other cases work is carried out as with a watchkeeping service. After agreement with the proposed physician, a therapeutic relationship develops. The doctor may then have access to a summary of the patient's medical record by means of the national registry number and after the patient's explicit consent, and after the consultation has been completed, the doctor may propose to share a note with the permanent general practitioner. Actually, this is what also happens on watch. All communication is done through recognized software packages that exist for general practitioners. The app itself is completely free. You can download it on your phone. The consultation via that app is, of course, a medical intervention. If the patient is a member of a Belgian sickness fund, the consultation will be reimbursed in accordance with the current rules for teleconsultations. So it doesn't go any different than when it happens via Skype, for example. The doctor receives a flat-rate fee from the RIZIV. Except there's an exception for doctors in medical homes. Should there ever be a decision to collect brake money, this possibility is already technologically foreseen in the app. The app is accessible to everyone. There is no exclusivity, not for doctors, not for telecom operators, not for mutualities or patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u29	Is a teleconsultation cheaper than going to the doctor? Or is the price the same?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u30	That system was installed during the covid crisis, because people couldn't go to the doctor. These teleconsultations continued to exist within the normal doctor-patient relationship. As far as I know, they were free then. A regulation is now being drawn up for this purpose. That is why you have the information that a fee is now being asked for, because it is indeed a consultation. They will therefore not remain free of charge.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u31	Thank you, Mrs Dewulf. The question of inflation and its impact on the prices to be charged by bpost is very important. Inflation increased to 8.3 % in March 2022. This has been the highest rating since 1983 and inflation is even higher in the meantime. That weighs on employers' wage costs. Bpost also applies the automatic wage indexing for its employees. The fourth and fifth consecutive indexing of 2%, scheduled for June and December of this year, will also have an impact on the financial situation of bpost. It is even possible that the planned indexation of December will be even earlier. Bpost's management has indicated that it must, of course, take action at all levels to deal with this. With regard to prices, there is a difference between bpost's commercial products in Belgium and those which form part of the universal service. The universal service products are subject to a price cap system which the regulator, the BIPT, controls. For commercial products, bpost uses the same strategy as any other company. Bpost will therefore change its prices depending on the increased costs. Also in the case of bpost, labour costs are a very important, perhaps the most important component of the cost structure. Inflation and automatic wage indexation contribute to this. This means that from June 2022 onwards, bpost will now allow a new price increase of 2.9 % for its contractual products to enter into force. This partly compensates for inflation, which is much higher. Prices for products under the universal service were already raised in 2022 and there is no intention to increase those prices further this year. .
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u32	Thank you for the answer, Madam Secretary. I am glad to hear that the price of stamps will not rise again. I also hope that customers and staff will not be disadvantaged by inflation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u33	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u34	Mrs. Dewulf, each company's reputation and customer satisfaction are central. That is why bpost is very committed to a quality service. Of course, in the context of universal service, the company must also meet certain quality requirements. Fortunately, the matter to which you refer with your question is very exceptional, even so exceptional that bpost does not have a specific statistical category for that type of event. The recovered mail and packages are, with apologies, delivered to the recipients. Several categories of mail and packages are of course followed or expected by the recipient. If they do not arrive, the customer can contact the customer service and file a complaint. The Internal Audit Service can also be informed and an investigation will follow. The Customer Service handles any complaints accompanied by a claim for damages, based on the provisions in force in the general terms and conditions or in the regulations, depending on the case. Similar facts shall be thoroughly examined and appropriate measures shall be taken. In the file cited, the mailman concerned was dismissed. The previous transfer of that person had to do with an internal recast of the rounds and is therefore independent of the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u35	I am glad that bpost played briefly on the ball by firing the person concerned and that everyone got their mail back. After all, if someone pays late, for example, they risk a fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u36	There is currently a pilot project for a first self-driving shuttle in Mechelen. Bpost wants every package in Belgium to be delivered without CO2 emissions by 2030. Is it intended that Bpost will also drive self-driving vans in other municipalities? What will happen after this pilot project? Will this two-month trial period be extended? Now you can ride with that self-driving shuttle for free. Will that remain free if the project is finally rolled out? You can use the self-driving shuttle to receive or send packages via the lockers. How does that system work? How will the packages be received or sent? Do the packages have to be franked yet? Who's gonna put those packages in the lockers? What's the cost of a shuttle bus?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u37	The pilot project with the self-driving shuttle took place in Mechelen-Noord. As you know, I myself have a great deal of interest in technological and innovative solutions. I also welcome the fact that public enterprises are testing them out and trying to play a leading role in this, especially when it comes to e-commerce. This is a project of the city of Mechelen and of the Flemish knowledge centre of the logistics sector (VIL), which is part of the EU project ULaaDS (Urban Logistics as an on-Demand Service), a project on urban logistics. Bpost is one of the partners in that project and shares his expertise specifically in the delivery of packages. So this is actually a mobility project. Within the framework of that project, the self-driving electric shuttle will take a 2.5 kilometer route between 13 June and 12 August, i.e. for two months, on weekdays on the Mechelen-Noord industrial site. Employees of the companies along that route can board at different stops in the vehicle, which then brings them to work. Businesses and private individuals can also drop off mail packages from bpost or pick them up at the shuttle. It's called cargo hitting. This should avoid extra packages transport along the route in the classic way and at the same time offer a better service for the customer. The customer can then decide when to pick up the package from the vehicle. This is the first time that this is tested in Belgium as a concept. The pilot project tries to investigate whether the optimisation of the use of autonomous vehicles with a logistical addition, i.e. packages, would be a viable business case. The package system works like that of the vending machines, without a screen. You can use a barcode to pick up the packages in those vending machines after the mailman put them in, or send them. This barcode can be obtained via the post office, online or via the My bpost app. The pilot project will measure and analyse the impact of such a way of transporting parcels and how bpost could possibly further expand and integrate that service into the organisation. The vehicle itself was made available to the project by the manufacturer. It is a prototype and the price is not known at bpost, but bpost does not pay the vehicle either.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u38	Thank you for the comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u39	Mr President, Madam Minister, I have raised the issue of staff shortages in the case of bpost and, specifically, in the case of retail. However, we have to note that not much has changed. There is still a clear imbalance in the well-being of bpost staff, as several vacancies remain open. For this reason, post offices either close their doors or remain open only part of the normal opening hours. Madam Secretary, are you aware that post offices must close due to a persistent shortage of staff? How will you deal with that problem? Is it true that start-ups do not get a fixed contract due to a lack of budget at bpost? Will you take measures so that current staff will be able to take their earned holidays these summer months?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u40	Mr President, Mrs Dewulf, bpost informs me that the closure of post offices in general is actually an exceptional phenomenon. First of all, a closure is possible because of a technical reason, such as a renovation, electricity works in the office or in the surrounding area, causing power failures, but also vandalism, working in the street, etc. That makes sense. In addition, it is also possible that a post office should be closed because of a human cause and most of the time it is disease. As far as the latter is concerned, of course we come from a difficult period, the covid pandemic, which has really had an impact on the staff. When a staff member fails unexpectedly, steps are always taken to replace him or her with a colleague. This is a practice, but because of geographical data, for example, in the case of multiple absentees in a particular zone, it is possible that an office cannot be kept open or opened at the planned time, causing problems. In other words, the closure of offices is exceptional and highly dependent on local conditions. If the situation is pressing, regional planning will therefore avoid the closure of the same office for longer periods. Staff recruited for post offices during this period of the year are mainly intended to replace staff taking leave. Those temporary replacements shall be completed for a period of limited duration. In the case of vacancies exceeding the temporary nature, they shall be filled for a period of longer duration or unlimited duration. As in the past years, bpost also pays a lot of attention this year to ensuring that post office staff can take their annual holidays together. Once it has been established, the agreement is no longer affected, so that the employees have certainty about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u41	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer, which I do not agree with. There's a shortage of staff. There is an urgent need to find a solution to this. Instead of investing in the French delivery platform, the CEO would look more closely at what is going on here. There are too few staff everywhere. Post offices have to close. Only two or three counters can be opened when there are counters. That's why the union stopped by this morning or shortly after noon. That's really not normal. I hope that before, during or after the recess, you will be able to speak with the CEOs again, there are two people who will be able to speak before, during or after the recess, so that a real solution can be found. After all, the staff of the retail department is really on the gums. You should read the posts of the bpost staff on Facebook. After all, the bucket is overflowing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u42	You had the opportunity earlier to echo this social climate at bpost. The newspaper Le Soir reported the suspension of social consultation within the company until 5 July 2022, when a strategic committee is to be held. Among the reasons mentioned, there are worrying things, including a restructuring plan in preparation to replace contractors with independents. I think there has been a lot of talk about the different models that exist today in the delivery sector. We really do not support the version of deliveries by independents. There is also the plan to transform bpost into "coli" activity and its limits - one is at the heart of this problem - as well as the lack of commitment to investment in diversification of activities in Belgium. In this context, the expectation is growing in relation to the regulation of the delivery sector. I was already able to question the CEO of bpost a few months ago about a certain slow bpost to implement projects that are on the table and that have been mentioned for a long time, including partnerships with the banking sector, with SNCB, the fight against the digital divide, etc. These projects could show that bpost really wants to be fully involved as an actor in our society and with a view to the redeployment of its activities, given the historical evolution of the "mail" activity. We are not going to talk again about the bill of level playing field, but what about the rumours of restructuring in bposts raised by the unions? Have you been able to talk to the CEO of bpost about the difficulties experienced in the "coli" activity in the social concertation, but also about the investment projects and the projects of the society in general?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u43	Madam Secretary, three hours ago, more than 1,000 people stood at your cabinet with a number of clear demands: no restructuring, no outsourcing and the preservation of jobs. The postmen and women are very worried. Half an hour ago, we heard that the proposed postal law will not continue. There won't be a percentage of fixed contracts, so I'll give the employees, frankly, 100 percent the same that they're worried. My colleagues inform me that the postmen are concerned about their jobs in the actions, but also about the many people who are now working as subcontractors. It was striking that many said that they do not want people to be exploited in this way. So the postal people also do not agree that there is false self-employment and exploitation among their colleagues. So you will not solve the problem for the couriers, because independence will remain, and you will actually open the door at bpost, which will result in more independence at bpost. We think that's very bad. I therefore have the following questions, Madam Minister. Are you aware of the social unrest at bpost? If so, how did you react to this? The staff of bpost is very concerned by the loss of volumes and by the evolution towards subcontracting. Could you give me a little more explanation about that? What about employment at bpost? I just heard that 3,000 jobs would be lost at bpost. Is that right? The social partners complain that bpost only looks at the staff to save, while bpost spends a lot of money on consultants. Is that a picture? Is bpost actively looking for new side activities, as you said in the management agreement itself? Bpost is a public company and must serve the population. How will bpost ensure that activities for the maintenance of employees are added?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u44	As you know, I regularly sit with the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the CEO of Bost to review the situation and the company's most important files. I was informed by them about the social unrest at bpost. As Minister of Public Enterprises, it is not pleasant to have tensions within our public enterprises. I'm kicking in an open door. In addition, several times a year also sits together with the trade unions of bpost, and coincidentally that was also the case this morning. I have listened to their concerns and I understand and share them. Creating a level playing field within the parcel sector is and remains a priority issue for me. I would like to return here to the first debate, Mrs Vindevoghel, during which you came to a strange and wrong conclusion, namely that there would be no amendment to the postal law. There will be, but we are looking for a way to achieve what we really want and for which I can find a majority. That is what we are doing, and I do not agree with your interpretation that this will not change anything. This will change a great deal in the sector in the coming years. We will set the bar high for everyone, so for 100 % of employees and not for 80 % or 50 %. I had an open conversation with the trade unions about this this morning. They know exactly where we stand and what we're doing, and I think I've been able to reassure them at that point. Bpost offers national and international postal and parcel services: collection, transport, sorting and distribution of addressed and non-addressed mail, printed matter, newspapers and packages. Of course, historically, bpost's activities are linked to postal activities, but the traditional business model of a postal operator is being put very much to the test today by market and technological changes, as well as by macroeconomic and geopolitical developments such as the war in Ukraine, inflation and changed consumer buying behaviour. These are external circumstances that affect our economy at the moment, not only in the case of bpost, because all companies experience this, but certainly in the sector of e-commerce. Bpost cannot remain dependent on merely a classic letter post for his business model; you will agree with me on that. The classic letter post is declining, and in the last five years the letter post has decreased by 31%. If we were to rely solely on a letter, bpost would have ceased to be active a long time ago. Bpost must and must have. In the long term, therefore, in the future, an economically sustainable and socially responsible way of working must be ensured. To this end, Bpost has developed a clear strategy, namely to transform it into a group of diversified activities. That involves several things. Among other things, Bpost should be a leading logistics service provider for e-commerce, not only in North America, but in Europe and certainly in Belgium, as well as with local traders. These latter elements are part of the important ambition of bpost, with which bpost must also be anchored in our country. Secondly, I refer to public services for the benefit of the people of our country, as is stated in the management contracts and concession contracts, for example for newspapers and magazines. We have also discussed a great deal about the management contract. In addition, a reform of the postal route is being carried out so that parcel and mail delivery can go to a new ecosystem, as it is called. Bpost will also offer hybrid communication services, digitally and physically, to Belgian citizens. In this way, the modernisation of the Belgian state is also supported by helping vulnerable citizens. Think of what we have set out in the management contract on the digital divide. As a result, Bpost also provides an important social service. It's actually a mission of a lot of different elements, all by carrying out bpost. This change is indeed necessary - it cannot be denied - in order for bpost to have a sustainable future. The complex context in which bpost must operate, the challenges the company faces and the direction it takes were explained to you in detail by Mr. Tirez and Mrs. Hanard when they came to committee on March 15, 2022. You'll remember that. As part of this transformation, management is taking the necessary steps to implement this strategy and, in this regard, bpost maintains its commitments to its employees. I think this is an important commitment to repeat. I know that, for the time being, trust does not exist, but it is a commitment that bpost expresses and that, as competent minister, I repeat and will control. These commitments result in a sustainable personnel policy based on constructive social dialogue, even if it is interrupted for the time being, and, let us repeat, healthy working conditions: adequate protection in the event of illness and incapacity for work, as well as opportunities for personal development through training and fair remuneration. I think we can say that bpost has always been one of the best students in the class in this field until today. This means that bpost is a socially responsible employer and wants to stay. It wants to continue to develop on a social level playing field. That's what we're trying to do with the post-law amendment. As a company, they also have to compete, and they want to continue to work with contractual employment. That is an important point. After all, you say that there is a shift. I'm getting a grade I can tell you. Between January and May of this year, the daily commitment to subcontractors is only 0.3 %. That's three out of a thousand. That's a very low figure. This morning I talked to the unions and I talk to management all the time. I'm doing my best to play my part in that dialogue. Management wants to restore social dialogue. You asked another question about consultancy costs. Bpost is an autonomous public undertaking. I assume that bpost management deals with its financial resources in a responsible manner. I don't have any information I can specifically tell you about this. I maintain confidence in the management and board of directors to face the transformation and challenges they face. I will certainly try to do everything in my power to do this in a good way, in order to serve the general interest of society and of the employees of bpost.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u45	Madam Minister, first of all, I thank you for fulfilling your role as an interlocutor by having received, at their request, the unions in order to better understand their concerns. You also reminded us of the figures for subcontracting or subcontractors, as you mentioned. Indeed, there is no question of competing with the PostNL model, because we cannot live with it. So we have to get as far away from it as possible. This is always the point of an amendment to the law, aimed at establishing more equitable rules of the game. I hear my colleague draw conclusions that I think are hasty and wrong. Our ambition is to land quickly, equipped with concrete measures, in order to put a brake on it and to inform PostNL that this method of work is over. It's the quadrature of the circle. Then you highlighted the opportunities for bpost that are the fight against digital frailties, as well as the missions relating to local businesses for the benefit of the population. In this respect, it is important to remember that all eggs should not be placed in the same basket, since competition is fierce and swift. We have a sense of urgency under our legislation. We must therefore make up for the delay in this debate. Moreover, management should be encouraged to continue diversification. No matter what is being done, concerns will persist because of this fierce competition environment. In any case, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u46	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I have not received a clear answer from you regarding the concerns of the staff about restructuring and the figure that is now making the rounds that 3,000 jobs would be lost. If that's what the union people say, it shouldn't come from anywhere. We're worried about bpost. You say that there is only 0.3% in subcontracting. We don't want that to happen anymore. We believe that bpost should continue to play a public role. However, we note that there is a problem. Some of the people are worried they're gonna lose their jobs. Amazon, for example, is a major competitor. We also hear that many places even post offices are closed because there are too few staff. We will have to come up with a solution to this. The provision of postal services to the public must be guaranteed, despite all the competition that is under way. We hope that you and the union people will sit around the table to ensure that the jobs are kept at bpost, because that is crucial for our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u47	Madam Minister, we have recently received as parliamentarians – but I think you and other levels of power have also received it – the letter from the collective KIOSQUE, which brings together various independent Belgian media such as Alter Échos, Axelle, Imagine, Le Ligueur, Médor, Tchak! and Wilfried. These independent media have joined forces because they believe it is important in our country to preserve the freedom and diversity of the press in the face of GAFAM and Fake news, and thus to enrich the democratic debate. These media make different demands – which is why they formed this collective – that are not specific to bpost, but they are faced with a difficult context: the rise in the price of raw materials, the issue of bookstore sales, and the health crisis, which has also gone through that. Other difficulties related to bpost are the subject of various requests: the increase in press tariffs by 20% in six years, delays in delivery without repair, unfounded returns of magazines to the sender, damaged magazines during transport or the absence of interlocutors familiar with the specifics of the sector. Different points are therefore in the order of the processes and how bpost collaborates with this type of media, even if the contractual provisions are already in place. I have already asked you about this, even my question may have been too "fresh" in the debate. Today you received this letter from the collective KIOSQUE. Did you get to know about it? What follow-up do you intend to give him? Have you ever had any contact with bpost about this? Is the Commission ready to enter into a structural dialogue with these actors to develop solutions? I believe that this is not a request for privileges but a relationship between a certain type of customer, which represents social interests for citizens, and the postal operator. Dialogue is therefore certainly the best way to develop solutions to the demands posed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u48	Mr President, Mr Parent, I would like to start by reminding you that the contract for a press concession falls not within my competence but within the competence of the Minister for the Economy. I inquired about bpost and I can still tell you what follows. The press concession agreement in force between bpost and the State for the distribution of periodicals does not allow bpost to set distribution rates freely to subscribers. More specifically, this contract sets the tariff schedules and their annual indexation at 1.6%. You will agree with me that it is a rather low indexation today, certainly in view of the explosion of inflation in recent months. The concession contract also provides for sanctions and compensation in the event of non-compliance with the quality required by the Belgian State for the distribution of the press to subscribers. bpost tells me that it applies what is stipulated in these contracts and that it reaches the required quality levels. That's the information I'm getting! In your list of suspected problems, you also mention unfounded returns of magazines to the sender for format issues. You will recall that we discussed this in the Public Enterprises Committee on 25 January 2022. I answered about these distribution problems with Wilfried magazine. Of course, I have indeed read the letter KIOSQUE sent to various ministers and levels of power on 3 May 2022. This letter includes a series of grievances that do not fall within my purview. One complaint concerns bpost tariffs and, in this respect, I can confirm that bpost is and remains willing to engage with the players in the sector. My office can, moreover, facilitate a meeting if necessary. Like you, I am absolutely concerned that we have a plural and high-quality press in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u49	Thank you, Minister. I essentially note that bpost is ready to open the dialogue with the interlocutors. I think that's what they're waiting for. Moreover, in addition to this first letter, they are in the process of forming a more complete memorandum on the basis of the experience of these various magazines – which will be sent to you again and which will also be addressed to the Minister of Economy, since it is concerned. Indeed, a meeting on the basis of these new demands that will be addressed to you is really important to see what are the solutions that are in the hands of the company and how it conceives its commercial relations with this type of interlocutors. We will pay close attention to the follow-up to this dialogue. Thank you for wanting to play the facilitators to organize this meeting. I will certainly return it to the various actors. With regard to the press concession, you refer precisely to the Minister of Economy and to the tariff schedule. Indexing seems logical, but we are still in a context of pressure on prices and the precariousness of economic models of this type of actor is also a reality in the sector. I would also like to ask the Minister of the Economy about this aspect in order to know the possible margins of solution and whether he is also ready to play the facilitating role in this issue between bpost and his various interlocutors. Thank you for your first constructive answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic832x.u50	This concludes our list of questions. Minister, thank you very much for your participation in our discussions.
