ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u2	I see that Mrs Merckx already wishes to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u3	Madam President, yesterday we were informed that Minister Vandenbroucke cannot be here today because he has had a high-risk contact and is in quarantine. However, today's rules of Sciensano no longer impose quarantine after high risk contact. I therefore wonder whether the lesser rules apply than the population, other than the Sciensano directives. He was supposed to be on the Conciliation Committee tomorrow. I would like to have some clarification on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u4	Mrs Merckx, moreover, since you are speaking on behalf of the PTB Group, I should also like to point out that your group informed me of your appointment as president of the group from 19 January.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u5	The rules of Sciensano indeed say that there is no longer an obligation to quarantine for someone who has been boosted. The rules do say that everyone is advised to show caution. Mr Vandenbroucke's view is that he must do everything he can to be as careful as possible, making it more cautious not to be here. He has indicated that he will be present at tomorrow's Consultative Committee. There we will ensure sufficient distance between him and the other participants. It's possible in that room. That is a very large hall in Egmont. The room here does not have the same possibility as the hall of Egmont.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u6	Prime Minister, the quarantine rules need to be clarified effectively. Ordinary people must go to their jobs today and cannot take that extra care of the minister. I'm gonna ask myself some questions about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u7	I suggest you start our oral question-and-answer session. The first issue concerns the situation in Ukraine and questions are addressed to the Prime Minister. As a result, an inquiry had to be filed, but the application did not win enough votes to be debated today. However, an agreement was reached on the sidelines of this meeting to hold this debate on Ukraine next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u8	Madam President, we are in a very separate situation in the Rules of Procedure. I myself would have insisted that I do not judge the position of my fellow Members, because everyone is free to say that the rules would be applied. So the shift is being made to next week's plenary session?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u9	Yes. At first it was intended that the debate would take place in committee, but it is not a problem that it should take place in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u10	Madam President, is this debate well postponed to next week's plenary session?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u11	We will see how to conduct this debate next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u12	Will this be an additional debate? I ask you, so that each group can ask two more questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u13	I propose that you continue this discussion on the organisation of work in next week's Conference of Presidents and begin our sitting with the attached questions on rising energy prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u14	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in order to lower household energy bills again, it is the improvisation ball. We're chipping. We're messing with each other. Banana skins are being thrown between government members on this issue. Meanwhile, household bills explode. Households are humming up. They can't afford to pay those energy bills anymore. At cdH, we think it's really time to act now. Much time has been lost since September. We have been offering an energy check for some time now. We do not think that the reduction in VAT is a good measure. It is a measure to boost the competitiveness of enterprises. This is not a measure in favour of the poorest households, middle-income households. The economist Étienne de Callataÿ recalled it again in La Libre Belgique today. We believe that we need an energy check for the middle class beyond the arrangements that have already been made for the most precarious households, of the order of 200 euros, by increasing it according to the number of people in the household by 25 euros per additional person. This check would not concern the 20% of the highest revenues. We also think – we rarely think about it – that the payment of energy bills should be smoothed out. This does not sound like anything, but it is very important; on the one hand, because wage indexation occurs several months after the payment of energy bills and, on the other hand, because it is hoped that there will be a reflux in the cost of energy for households next year. This second measure is also important. We know that large sums are being generated today from the over-profits of ENGIE Electrabel and that there are additional revenues at the state level in terms of gas and electricity. They were valued at $825 million and $450 million in fuel oil. There are margins to be able to operate. We have to do it now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u15	Prime Minister, prices are increasing, they are becoming priceless. People can't afford their energy bill anymore. But what happens on the Rue de la Loi? You're bickering, you don't remember, you keep meeting, but you still don't know what you're gonna do to help the working class. I think that's really outrageous, there has to be real action. The solution is on the table, a VAT reduction from 21 % to 6 % makes sense. On caviar and champagne, as much VAT is charged as on gas and electricity. You won't be able to explain that to anyone. With the PVDA we exert pressure, with 300,000 signatures under our petition and with the support of the trade unions. That pressure changes the parties' opinion. It is very interesting to see that evolving in politics today. Minister Van Peteghem of CD&V has answered questions about this four times that nothing comes into his house from a VAT reduction, but in the end he has changed his mind, which I find positive. Our pressure makes the parties change their minds. Green was also opposed, for ecological reasons, but yesterday morning Minister Tinne Van der Straeten said that there might be a reduction in VAT. All right, we're gonna keep pushing and Green's gonna change his mind. That also happened with the PS. At the PS, Paul Magnette told the newspaper L'Écho: "In my personal capacity, I am against the VAT reduction from 21 % to 6 %". But we feel that the lines are starting to move and the PS says, "We may still be in favour of it." That's great. It's moving! It's moving! It's moving! This means, Prime Minister, that more and more parties are in favour of this proposal. I'm calling you. This is necessary. We have to stop saying that this is going to be an index jump disguised. This is not true because the poorest households spend 10% of their expenditure on energy, while the average in the household basket to calculate the index is 5%. That's not true! This is a measure that will benefit all workers. In terms of swimming pools, rich people, etc., what are you going to do, green people? Apply a 21% VAT on water because they fill the pools with water? That's bullshit! (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u16	Mr Prime Minister, yet another fake agreement becomes a fact, a temporary and conditional VAT reduction, which comes out as a typical Belgian compromise, because it does not even affect the government. You have to pretend to the outside world as a kind of Zacheus the tax collector and give something back to the people. However, it is effective pretending, because at the moment the vivaldiassa is ringing with the 21% VAT levied on the ever higher energy prices. The Fleming better cling to his breaks because his energy bill won't go down anytime soon. Increasing CO2 prices and energy transition policies will still cost the ordinary man a lot of money. You also ignore the many Flemings who do not receive the social rate, who live in poorly isolated homes and who cannot afford renovation, heat pump or solar panels. Your left-wing coalition shows that she lives in another world and is not social. That's why people are in the cold. I notice that the vivaldi policy is a chain of loose crumbs. However, people expect concrete solutions. They're having a hard time, and they want you to do something about it. I cannot stand by, Prime Minister, while more and more Flemings are facing energy poverty. Looks like you guys can do it. Mr Prime Minister, why was VAT on energy not structurally reduced to 6%?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u17	Madam President, Prime Minister, I am pleased that you have come to answer the questions today in your capacity as Head of Government. After all, I want to talk about strength and purchasing power and about the lack of effectiveness at the expense of purchasing power, which has been the guiding principle of the current government for a year and a half. I am surprised that in a dossier such as that of rising energy prices, in which we have been getting the signals from the public for months that what is happening with the energy bill and purchasing power is not sustainable, you are unable to come up with a coherent proposal. In my preparation I had written something about the VAT reduction. Apparently, you have started a turn towards a VAT reduction. However, your group leader has just publicly announced that a VAT reduction is a deception, because the money is then taken away from the people again. Your Minister for Energy said a few days ago that a reduction in VAT is a stupid measure. Your Minister of Finance replicated that he would come out with a smart VAT cut. There would be a VAT reduction now, but the government would increase excise duties in the summer and get the money back. Mr Prime Minister, that is a trick for me. Perhaps your group leader has talked about this. I will only ask one very simple question. Here's what I'd like to know. After all, it's decision time tomorrow. Tomorrow, the government will make a decision. The construction of the population is such that a decision must finally be made. I just have one very simple question. What will you put at the heart of tomorrow, in order to be able to show the people by tomorrow evening a decision on which they can rely?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I come back to a discussion that took place in the Chamber last week. I would like to state what steps have been taken in the meantime. As you may recall, I said last week which criteria the measures must meet. Firstly, they must be temporary measures. Secondly, the measures should be aimed at those people who are worried about their ability to pay the energy bill every month. Thirdly, that is one aspect that I do not hear very much about here; we must also look at the sustainability of our public finances in relation to measures that have already been taken and measures that may be taken in addition. I also spoke last week about the measures that have already been taken. Mr Dallemagne, you say that it is time to act. The government did not wait to act! Decisions have been taken in multiple stages to introduce an expanded social tariff, which affects 20% of the population with a real benefit of 720 euros per household on the invoice. This advantage is really tangible. The federal government has already made a total effort of more than 700 million on top of the existing mechanisms in our country. We have mechanisms in our country that are part of our social system, such as indexation. It works very well and makes it possible for energy to play a very important role in increasing benefits and wages today. That is an automatic mechanism and therefore one tends to say that it has no influence whatsoever. However, anyone who draws a wage or receives a benefit will see an indexation of it this year and can be used to compensate for the increase in life expectancy. Does that mean we stop there? No! I said last week that we were looking at additional leads, respecting the criteria that I had put forward. First of all, the criteria I have set are not contested. The government agrees to look at the dossier in this way. Last Friday we decided with the government that energy and finance ministers will play a coordinating role. They will develop the different thinking paths and assess them against the different criteria, including as regards the sustainability of public finances. They will find out what is best suited to our objectives. Tomorrow, the government will discuss the various options, taking into account the measures already taken and their increasing costs. More fundamentally, I believe that the government should take advantage of the opportunity to pursue policies. This policy should not only focus on one-off compensation, but should provide an answer to the question of how to give our citizens sustainable access to cheap energy. One of the policy options is to give consumers access to self-produced energy, such as solar panels or heat pumps, or better insulation so that they consume less. It is an acute problem today, and we are looking at traces of thinking to deal with it. However, you may expect a government to do more than just put some kind of plaster on the wound and then see where it comes from. Today we need to pursue a policy whereby we give people sustainable access to cheaper energy while protecting consumers. That is why we have asked the CREG, the ombudsmen and the Economic Inspectorate to check whether the mechanisms relating to advance invoices, which we see today, are in line with the rules in force. I want to end this. We are facing an energy crisis today; that is absolutely the case. We have taken measures over the last few months, but today we see that the crisis is becoming much wider and affects more people than the group we are targeting. In other words, we need to look at what additional measures are needed and we need to pursue policies that protect people from excessive fluctuations in energy prices in the longer term.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u19	Prime Minister, as you said yourself, you have included 20% of the Belgian population in your measures. We propose that you include 80% of the Belgian population in the measures: 20% through a social rate, 60% through this energy check, which would be adjusted according to the composition of the households. I do not understand how some so-called progressive parties are still calling for VAT cuts. When Melchior Wathelet lowered VAT a few years ago, he did so because it was a stimulus for businesses. It was a measure of competitiveness. This was not a measure for households. If we take such a step, it will lead to an index jump and the workers will lose three, four, five times as it will be definitive. I do not understand how we can still argue for such a measure. Some other measures would be much more effective and consistent. I recall our third measure, which is the smoothing of the payment of invoices. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u20	Prime Minister, you have given three criteria. The first is the temporary character. But why should the measures to be taken be temporary if all experts predict that prices will remain high until at least 2025? So the crisis will not be temporary. Secondly, you believe that the measures should be targeted. But a very large part of the working class will have to pay 1,500 to 2,000 more per year. I hear today a plea that the rich must pay. The rich have to pay. We agree, comrades! The rich have to pay, so make a tax on wealth. Increase the PPI on high wages. Now everyone gets up talking about the rich. I'm talking about VAT. We must lower it for everyone and introduce a tax on wealth. It's a solution. But it's not through VAT that we charge the rich. With this reasoning... What shall we do? Shall we go on the water to fill pools, also raise 21%? That's bullshit. And then there's the sustainability of finances. Here in Belgium, one company is stacking gold, especially Engie/Electrabel. While the people are suffering, EUR 2.6 billion has disappeared in Electrabel's register. What is interesting is that when we (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u21	Prime Minister, your energy policy is one of 12 stiles and 13 accidents, and your measures remain a dead end. Your temporary VAT reduction is a typical Belgian compromise. Our electricity is already the fifth most expensive in the world. Scratch the energy bill that shouldn't be on it and stop enriching you on the hood of the ordinary Flame. Reduce VAT permanently and unconditionally, because energy is not a luxury product. Reduce VAT to reduce inflation and protect our people's purchasing power. Life is expensive enough as it is. How is it possible that you watch patiently that more and more people can't pay their final bill anymore? Prime Minister, the final balance is still to be settled, and it will be in 2024.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u22	Prime Minister, it is about the long term and about structural solutions. But tomorrow we will look specifically at what the government can do for the people now. Yesterday, we also tabled a proposal, which I would like to give you, in order to stay away from the whole debate on a VAT reduction, the main lines of action. I do not have the illusion that the government will accept proposals from the opposition, but perhaps you will find inspiration in them. We believe that anyone who does not receive the social rate should now receive a tax reduction of EUR 500. That's the full working middle class, including all the self-employed. They are often forgotten, even though they do not receive a wage index. Our proposal is also social, because we give money and not a percentage. So we do not have the whole discussion about the large consumers either. The proposal is quick and simple, because it goes through the farm levy. From March onwards, people will be able to survive more net. Finally, this is also very important - it is not a cardigan-pocket operation. We leave the index untouched and what we give to the people, we do not take back later, not by a deferred indexation (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u23	The Prime Minister remains with us to answer two questions about the Codeco. Mrs Jadin, are you asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u24	Madam President, I have not understood everything about the question that I introduced on behalf of the Reform Movement, followed by several colleagues, concerning relations on the border between Ukraine and Russia. I understood that Mr. Franken's inquiry had been omgezet. If I translate correctly, it means that it had been transformed. This also implies that the questions as submitted deserve to be answered. Madam President, I did not get a good idea if we were to postpone a debate in committee or in plenary on the same subject. For me, that would make no sense, since it is a topical debate – and a burning news! If there is a change, a joint decision is required. I don't know if my group leader knew about it. Maybe that decision got away from me. In any case, Madam President, I do not believe that I should be deprived of the right to ask my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u25	Madam Member, at the beginning of this plenary session, I explained that an agreement had been reached following the difficulties caused by the tabling of an inquiry which was introduced late in view of the schedule of the Conference of Presidents. Consequently, it could not be dealt with and placed on the agenda of this meeting. The intention of the group concerned was to request the inclusion of the inquiry in the plenary. If that request had been accepted, the consequence would have been the withdrawal of all questions on the same topic. In order to resolve this conflict of agendas and order of business, it was agreed that we could postpone the debate until next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u26	Madam President, thank you for your explanation. However, I do not agree. I do not consider that a political group alone decides the subjects to be dealt with. Indeed, I had introduced a question in due form and within the required time frame. Therefore, I think I can ask my question today – and so do my colleagues who wish to do so. On the other hand, I would point out that if a political group had intended to file an inquiry, I did, however, read that it was a matter of normal topicality.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u27	Mrs Jadin, I do not think that all the Members present here want the sitting to be suspended in order to organise a Conference of Presidents and to discuss the proceedings again. I think we're here to try and move forward. We referred to this at the beginning of the plenary. This has been settled and I propose that we move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u28	I'm sorry, but we still have procedures to follow. The request arrived late, it was settled in the Conference of Presidents for a postponement for next week. From the moment the group wants an inquiry, it is up to you to submit the urgency and the decision on referral to committee or not to the plenary session. If we change things by talking like this... I didn't participate in the discussion, I heard what you were saying afterwards. But why remove all the questions when we could have decided, for example, to refer the inquiry back to committee, as was decided at the Conference of Presidents? I'm having trouble with these mixtures and approximations in the procedures. I would like to understand why the questions on the agenda are not being asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u29	I hear a group disagrees. I propose that you continue the questions as we have begun them. This will not be a problem now, as we have already talked about Ukraine before and we have solved the problem. So I suggest you, Mr. Piedboeuf, have a special interview with you to explain the situation, if you wish. Then we'll see. In the meantime, I propose to move forward on the agenda. Ukraine will not prevent us from asking questions about the Codeco, which is of interest to all our citizens tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u30	I never refuse appointments!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u31	Madam President, Prime Minister, on the eve of a new Codeco, there is a huge wave of covid cases and contamination. Hospital admissions are increasing, although, at this stage in any case, intensive care is under control, which is obviously particularly important. As far as form is concerned, I can only once again call you and the different levels of power to show more coherence and clarity, on the occasion of the Codeco of tomorrow, with less confusion and cacophony. This is a major issue in terms of credibility, trust and public acceptance. As far as the background is concerned, the famous barometer announced for months will be on the agenda of this Codeco. Setting up a covid weather indicator, why not? But it is not this indicator that will allow a normal life to resume. Indeed, what matters in the short, medium and long term is to deploy the weapons that are available and to maintain the activities while minimizing the risks of each location. In this regard, I would like to ask you two questions. First, when will the approach be no longer sectoral, but place by place? Indeed, the reality and risks differ. What does it mean, for example, to apply a single gauge of 200 people for a cultural centre and a huge entertainment hall? That doesn't make any sense! What does it mean to apply the same rules for teenage football training and for a game of 50,000 fans in a stadium, with a pre-game and a post-game? That doesn't make any sense! Secondly, when will the authorities, at all levels of power, really provide their help and support, by going there, so that security is ensured as best as possible and above all to enable citizens to lead an almost normal life despite the presence of the virus?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u32	Madam President, Prime Minister, the implementation of a decision scoreboard is extremely important and I have been questioning the Minister of Health for several months in this regard. Measures are changing, sometimes contradicting themselves without obvious explanations; there are sometimes week-to-week challenges to the criteria for class closure, the number and type of tests, hospital guidelines, or the closure of certain trades. The scientific uncertainties are there and the virus surprises, in particular by its variants. But, after two years of pandemic, we have scientific data to define a framework of gradual decisions to be taken or not to take on closing hours, gauges for sport, culture, extracurricular, deadlines for revising a measure, wearing the mask – which, indoors, outdoors and for how long? It is essential for everyone to know how decisions are made to anticipate, implement and provide perspectives. This is not the case today. Prime Minister, what set of criteria and scientific studies is the basis for the draft decision-making scoreboard that is under negotiation? What sectors are covered by this project? Do you confirm that we will have it accessible to all tomorrow? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your questions, which I think have already set the stage in which we are working. Indeed, the level of contamination is increasing rapidly. The experts had said, two weeks ago, that at one point we would reach figures such as Monday's, namely 60,000 positive cases out of an estimated total of 90,000 tests. On Monday, two out of three tests were positive. This means that the number of positive people is well above 60,000 and the circulation of the virus is very high. On the other hand, pressure in intensive care services is gradually decreasing. Does that mean there are no risks? Let's keep some caution! Mrs Fonck, as you said, the number of hospitalizations is increasing. Hospital admissions from yesterday and the day before, compared to the same times last week, increased by 50-80%. Will this result in increased pressure in intensive care? It's not clear yet. But the fact that there are so many people currently hospitalized because of the covid shows that today we are not in a situation where we can compare the Omicron variant to a common autumn flu. Clearly, this is not a flu. The effects go beyond that. In addition, vaccination and specifically booster vaccination remains our best defence. It's one of the most important tools and it's moving forward. In comparison with other European countries, there are only two countries that have higher booster vaccination than Belgium: Denmark and Ireland, fairly. In this context, we are working, as indicated, on a barometer - a system that must help us better manage this period which is coming and during which we will experience moments of improvement. In that case, we will not keep the rules in force one day too much. But it is also possible that the situation might go in the wrong direction. The barometer will then give us transparency and visibility to understand that if the situation deteriorates, we can expect a series of measures to be taken. I think we've learned a lot from managing this pandemic. Now, everything we have learned must be realized in this barometer. Its value will be to show the population where we are, the characteristics of the current situation in comparison with other situations, the current rules and other rules if the situation evolves in one direction or another. Mrs Fonck, I think one of the important elements is indeed to have a better proportionality. Today, we have a maximum of 200 people inside, for example, in a small room or in a room of several thousand seats. The barometer will respond to this type of current weakness. The same applies to possible control measures, for example in relation to the breakdown that will also be included. Taquin, we rely on the advice we have received from GEMS and the Office of the Commissioner Corona and on the many consultations we have had with the sectors. The goal is to have a management barometer that specifically states what happens in culture, in event, in sport, in horeca and in all activities. Does that mean that other measures are not possible? No, but we want to give visibility to these sectors because they need to be organized and need more predictability than the other elements. In conclusion, I believe that tomorrow is an important moment for all the governments of this country. We must show that we can gather all the knowledge we have accumulated, that we can detail that knowledge in order to get something that gives that predictability and transparency to which we now have the right to manage the crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u34	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. Let's try to see the positive. I expect you, but also from all levels of power, tomorrow, less cacophony. This actually means more coherence, more efficiency but also behind, more trust and more citizen support. We all need it! We agree with you: we must of course continue to convince as much as possible of the vital importance of vaccination and booster. Let me also insist that you continue, in terms of communication, to insist on the barrier gestures and the wearing of the mask. This remains very important! More than just a barometer, I hope that tomorrow you will be able to move forward to deploy devices to ensure maximum security and reduce risks. It is now well demonstrated that ventilation, including mechanical ventilation if necessary, drastically reduces the risks. Maybe we're at the end of the tunnel with the Omicron variant, but maybe not. Let us have humility and honesty to say that we do not know what will happen afterwards. We can't rule out another variant. It's up to us to control things to live in spite of this virus.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u35	Prime Minister, thank you for the elements of your response. You confirm that we are finally moving forward, and of course I hope that the Codeco will decide tomorrow. The most important thing, let's remember, is the hospital. Let us focus on membership, with a clear, predictable and objective line, to manage well and to communicate well, and let us be clear in this direction. Communication has not always been good because it has been very disparate. To properly manage a crisis and get the message across, it is important to have a unique communication, and I know that my group and I can count on you on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u36	Minister, since the sharp rise in energy prices in recent months, the Energy Office has been unable to keep up with the number of complaints. Thousands and thousands of complaints flow in there and deal with absurd situations where advance invoices reach 1,000 euros or fixed rates that suddenly turn into variable contracts. We must act quickly, not only to tackle the high invoices, but also to put an end to mispractice in the energy market. You know Vooruit's position on this: we are in favour of a VAT reduction on energy because heating our own house is not a luxury, but a basic product. Just as 6 % VAT is levied on water and food, we find it only fair that this would be the case for energy. Everyone needs electricity every day and so a VAT reduction is only logical. Reducing VAT to 6% would also ensure that invoices go down and that we help people effectively. However, such a firm measure with this aim will only work if we also ensure that the malpractices stop at the same time. People sometimes hear scandalous stories that people are confronted with. It's absolutely time to stop that. It's possible. This morning, the Energy Ombudsperson called for two things to be done: to reduce VAT and to provide for a safety net regulation that leads to the profits of the people and not to the suppliers, because of additional costs. I have two questions on this, Minister. What will you do to better protect the consumer? Will you, for example, use the Economic Inspectorate to counter malpractice? Will you take measures to ensure that energy suppliers cannot simply raise their prices significantly?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u37	Madam President, Mrs Depraetere, it is true that consumers are increasingly complaining about malicious practices by certain energy suppliers. They are deceived or are the victims of unfair practices, resulting in an unjustified increase in their invoice. As we could read in the press, certain suppliers would try to convert fixed contracts into variable contracts or increase advance invoices unilaterally. These practices are unacceptable and must stop. Anyone who is still faced with this kind of malicious practice in the future, I recommend that a file be opened with the Federal Ombudsman who is working closely with the Economic Inspectorate. I have asked the Economic Inspectorate to do everything in its power to stop these misleading and unfair practices. An inspection team focuses specifically on this problem. In the meantime, the inspection has launched an investigation against several energy suppliers. However, I cannot give any further details on this in order not to harm the secret of the investigation. These studies are important to better protect consumers who are poorly treated by their energy supplier. Mrs Depraetere, thank you for your question, which gives me the opportunity to remind you that in the very short term the government will take measures to counter the high energy bill. Like you, I believe that these measures should be partly financed through the excess profits of producers. So we have asked for an analysis of these additional profits, and it is only logical that we should use them to support citizens financially.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u38	Minister, we are very much looking forward to the decision that the government will take tomorrow or very soon, because it is really time for the energy bill to go down. I am also pleased that you indicate that you have instructed the Economic Inspectorate to investigate some of the issues, because it is important to address the energy bill with various possible instruments. On the other hand, the reduction in VAT would like to do so, but measures will only be effective if everyone complies with the rules, especially the energy suppliers. The Energy Ombudsperson has already clearly called for malpractice to be addressed. I'm glad to hear you're supporting that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u39	Madam President, Minister, I would like to begin by expressing my condolences to the family members of that little boy. I'm sure there's nothing worse than having to bury your own child. It is therefore understandable that there is so much turmoil in this case. The prime suspect was sentenced to ten years in prison in 2010. He was released after serving his full sentence. He was not followed after that, because the posting only started in 2012. You explained that in detail yesterday. Psychiatrists point out that sadistic psychopaths are particularly dangerous. One must remove them from society. I read today in La Libre Belgique, I quote: "These people do not ask for help, do not suffer psychologically and generally deal better with the prison environment than other prisoners. They don't experience anxiety or depression. Emotional cold protects them from stress. Limit the risk of recurrence." I'd say eliminate the risk of repetition and put those people away. Protect society from these monstrous figures. Minister, I have only one relevant question in this tragedy today. What are you going to do to put those child killers away? You already have our help.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u40	Madam President, Minister, it is obviously impossible for me to begin my speech without expressing my deepest condolences to the family of little Dean. It is also impossible for me to hide my indignation, because, like the greatest judicial dramas that have affected very young children in our country, this tragedy could also have been avoided. Of course, you are not personally responsible for this, but you still have a political responsibility today, to protect our children after decades of disinvestment in our judiciary, and in particular in the follow-up of detainees, and not in the ad vitam isolation of detainees, as the extreme right is trying to make him believe today. Because that's what this is about today. Dean's executioner, who had seen his dangerousness confirmed throughout his detention, was not followed as soon as he was imprisoned, although he should have been followed for the murder of another two-year-old boy. On the contrary, it was only when he was approaching the end of his sentence that he was able to benefit from follow-up, both for his social disorders and for his addictions, with a view to his release. You have spoken at length about this in committee, and you have come back to your proposal to reform the Penal Code, which aims, among other things, to tighten up sentences when the perpetrator exercises a position of confidence in a victim who, a fortiori, is a minor. However, what are you planning as an upstream measure to protect victims before it is too late? You also announced the investment in high secure and psychiatric structures, while admitting that it would not be enough to compensate for the shortage of places. So are you going to speed up the establishment of legal psychiatry centres and invest in the therapeutic and psychiatric follow-up of non-interned but, despite everything, dangerous people? Finally, what about your federal plan against domestic violence? How will you, in practice, encourage the use of this important measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u41	Madam President, Minister, grief, anger, incomprehension. Everyone feels it, everyone talks about it, everyone stays behind with questions. Little Dean's gone. His family will never see him grow up, no drawings from school home, no reading books, no birthday parties. Not so many things, taken away by someone who took his life, by someone who, before, also abused a two-year-old as a result of death, by someone who was in prison for ten years, someone with severe personality disorders and no or hardly any sense of guilt, someone who was not followed. As a society, we have failed to protect a four-year-old child. That's an intriguing finding. Could this have been prevented? Unfortunately, we will never be able to answer that. Can we protect our children better? Absolutely. We can improve procedures and strengthen the follow-up of perpetrators. For now, it's clear. Anyone who abused a two-year-old child so hard that it died must never come into contact with children. Today, we have the system of posting at the criminal court, different from that of the past. Unfortunately, that system is still too limited. For this reason, the extension of the compulsory provision of services to protect children has also been put on the table more often. Do you agree with me that anyone who commits serious violence against children, especially as a result of death, must be made available so that we can effectively better protect our children?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u42	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed angry and very sad today. Everyone is very shocked by what happened to little Dean. The facts are therefore terrible. A little boy of four is given in good faith with a so-called friend of the house, goes missing and is found dead. A tragedy is that. Indeed, it is all the more poignant that the person concerned has previously committed similar acts. We heard that several times he was asked to be included in psychiatry, but that this could not be done because of lack of space. I come to my questions, Minister. Can you confirm that the person concerned would be covered by the posting of the same facts today, and in other words that he would be followed by the current legislation, which has been amended? Can you also say whether the refusal of the psychiatric institutions came because there was a general lack of space, or is there simply no room for such specific heavy profiles? Minister, what initiatives are you planning, together with the Minister of Health and the Länder, to strengthen psychiatry both inside and outside the prison walls? Finally, today either someone is accountable and ends up in prison for such facts, or not insanityable, and is interned. You know that a combination of both is not yet possible. It's one or the other. Our party has already tabled a bill a few months ago to ensure that someone can be declared partially responsible, for example in the case of drug addiction. This could lead to a person getting both a prison sentence and a compulsory treatment. My question is therefore whether you think this is feasible in the short term, for example within the new Criminal Code?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u43	Mr. Secretary, Dean's murder affects us all very, very deeply. Little Dean's gone, and that's terrible. To describe that loss, few words are the right one. Few words can express the tearing sorrow, for Mom and for Dean's family in the first place. But then, of course, all the questions come. How did this happen? How did this happen again? The suspected perpetrator had been in prison for 10 years for similar facts. Lessons have to be learned from this. The recidivism rate in our country is very high. Research shows that 57% of all people with a first conviction are relapsed. Seventy-two per cent will be re-contacted with the court within five years. In Norway, for example, the relapse rate is much lower, i.e. 25% after five years. It shows that there's another way. How is it possible that our country is doing so badly? Sometimes months or years have to be waited. Sometimes there is no psychiatric treatment, even for people who stay in prison. In 2005, a law on the prison system was passed, which provides that every inmate and perpetrator will be given a detention plan. Among other things, the plan provides for psychiatric treatment, in order to prevent recurrence. However, we note that the plan entered into force only 15 years after the date, i.e. in 2019. That's a real problem. Sometimes there are intentions to change things, but the resources are not there. Minister, you have a responsibility to protect society and children. It is therefore also your responsibility not only to change things, but also to ensure that the public services that are responsible for the change are provided with sufficient resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u44	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, on behalf of our group, I would like to express our condolences to Dean's family and friends. Many of us are also older or grandparents. Such a loss always touches us very deeply. Mr. Secretary, what now? It is clear that the tragic event has revealed some of the structural and persistent problems that we have known for a long time. There are many, but I want to focus on three problems, which are very important to us. Firstly, there is insufficient guidance and treatment during detention. This must be done as a matter of priority. I know that you have already taken steps to deal with it. However, we will have to implement this measure quickly and everywhere in all prisons. Secondly, the recording in psychiatry is still a problem. There are waiting lists and there's no room. In addition, very serious cases that are offered are refused. We really do have a lot of work to do. We need to tackle this problem in a structural way. After all, we also need this expertise. The expertise is there. We need that expertise to deal with such serious cases. Thirdly, we must also consider the post-detention period. If we say that it is essential to work on the prisoner's problems during detention, then we will also experience situations where that has not yet been completed, where it seems impossible because of the seriousness of the problem or because the prisoner simply does not want to cooperate. We must ensure that structural measures can also be taken after detention to protect society. Detention has to make sense or it's useless. Investing in meaningful detention is investing in tomorrow's future. I should like to hear your specific proposals for the coming weeks and months, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u45	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you, because I, as a mom, stand here today with some hesitation, for losing a baby in such a way is almost the worst. But I'm also standing here reluctantly because Dean isn't the first victim. We've been here before. I also have a lot of shame and humility as a representative of the people, because I notice that in my mailbox and I assume that this will be no different for colleagues to ask them to finally solve this problem. Improvements have already been made. That's true, but we're not here yet. After all, there is something wrong with the system once again to all of you, ladies and gentlemen, when an unsub who commits serious acts and is serving his sentence, he has done so, but who is said not to be treatable and that nothing can be done, at the end of his sentence, is simply released, without guidance and succession in prison, but also without supervision and succession outside prison. Do we really accept this, ladies and gentlemen, in hope of blessing, or do we join forces? We all have ideas, I've heard a few before. Mr Van Peel has already argued this week for the restraining order. Our proposal to extend the posting, i.e. longer mandatory follow-up after the end of the sentence, has been put forward for a few years, but has not yet been approved. You have all proposed and we have been talking about it for so long, but let us now do something about it and go beyond the taboos. My question is mainly addressed to all of you, if you will excuse me, Minister. Are you prepared to work together, across from every taboo, every ideology, every dogma, together on the system, in order to better protect society, but especially our children?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u46	Madam President, Minister, we were all saddened and even upset at the announcement of the tragic death of little Dean. First of all, allow me, on behalf of my group, but also – I think I can say this – of all the colleagues, to express my sincere condolences to his family and our support in this ordeal, of which no word can appease the pain. As we now know, in 2008 and 2010, the main suspect had already been sentenced to ten years' imprisonment for the death of a little boy. This drama highlights dysfunctions in our judicial system and, more specifically, in our prison system. It is now known that the suspect had requested his placement in a psychiatric institution that had been refused him, for lack of room. You have had the opportunity, Minister, to express your views on this subject on a number of occasions, and you have indicated the efforts made, but also the ongoing efforts to improve the support of prisoners, which can only be welcomed. However, in view of this tragedy, it also seems necessary to reaffirm that every prisoner must be able to be followed up and that imprisonment as the sole punishment and without accompaniment does not meet either the objective of reintegration or the objective of reducing the risk of recidivism. With particular regard to perpetrators who suffer from psychological or psychological disorders, appropriate and medical facilities and active psychiatric follow-up must be established as quickly as possible. Minister, how can we collectively improve the psychological follow-up of inmates during and after detention? When will we finally have complementary legal psychiatry centres to ensure the necessary capacity and optimal infrastructure for prisoners with psychological disorders? Finally, can you provide us with an update on the discussions regarding the transfer of jurisdiction for inmate health care from the Department of Justice to the Department of Public Health?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u47	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is rightly a great deal of grief about the dramatic death of little Dean, first and foremost of course with family and friends, but also with so many other people. That doesn't leave anyone unmoved. For us as politicians, then, there is a certain degree of timidity, modesty and, above all, compassion. Minister, in addition to grief, there is also a great deal of disbelief and indignation, for which we must understand. First of all, there is responsibility in the area of justice. Various proposals have already been put forward, including by yourself and by us in 2020, to oblige criminals who are released at the end of their prison sentence without conditions and without follow-up, while they pose a risk to our society, to receive controlled treatment, or to have them returned to prison in the absence of treatment. In addition, we must also focus on the period during which the sentence is served. Those people need to be treated in or out of prison and they need to be followed. Many may be guilty but have no guilt. Such matters need to be financed. Together, we have been working for years, but with insufficient results. In the previous legislature, the Ministers responsible jointly drew up a vision text and concrete proposals. At the conclusion of the current government agreement, we have provided additional resources for Justice. You also promised an action plan and concrete measures by the end of 2021. Minister, what can we do? [[microphone disabled]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the whole country sympathizes with little Dean's mom and family. What happened to them is every parent's worst nightmare. My thoughts go to the mother and family of little Dean. The loss of a child is the worst nightmare. It brings grief, anger and frustration to all of us, but also to the people who work for the Justice Department. Tuesday morning I called the director of the prison of Ruiselede, where I have been several times. That's where the news came in like a sledgehammer. In Ruiselede, they made every effort to get that man on the right path, knowing that he was approaching the end of his sentence. They treated him for his addiction, they trained him to be a forklift driver, and they made him work to pay off the victims, but it didn't help. The director told me on the phone that this is the low point in his career and that he feels powerless. Colleagues, of course, perpetrators must be severely punished and, of course, there is no place in our society for people who commit such atrocities. There is also a need to do better in justice and health care. It is high time to move away from the idea that only total isolation under strict supervision can lead a prisoner to personal reflection and bring him back to reason. That is why, as a society, we must invest in our prisons and in prisoners. Last year I decided with the government to recruit 199 extra people in our prison system. These are psychiatrists, psychologists, care staff, of which dozens are already working today. After all, the answer is not even more severe punishment, the answer is better punishment. That better punishment will also be at the heart of the new Criminal Code, which we will discuss and approve here together. We need to get rid of that black-and-white thinking, of the binary division between sanity and insanity. A lot of people fall among them: people with addiction and people with mental problems, which means that the chance of relapse is much greater for them. For them, we need to introduce reduced accountability, as exists in the Netherlands, so that those people can be punished and treated at the same time. We have an instrument at our disposal today. That instrument did not exist in 2010 at the time of the conviction in the form it has today. That is the posting, followed up by convicted persons after the end of their sentence and imposing measures, such as a ban on dealing with children. Parliament must give this instrument, the provision of it, a wider application and make it more powerful. Any time the Justice Department deals with such perpetrators, the judge should be able to pronounce the additional sentence. The posting should last as long as necessary and, if necessary, for life. Colleagues, this requires an appropriate care offer, both during and after the period of detention. And that is exactly what we are missing today. We all have to work together on this: justice, health care, federated entities. An inter-ministerial conference on this subject is scheduled for February. In September we open the new prison in Haren. In Haren we will add the deed to the word. This will be the first prison in our country where we can truly realize our ambition to have firm and humane punishment. Indeed, we will work with small units, with detention escorts – which is a completely new function. In addition, care teams will provide psychological assistance. As a result of the decision in 1999, a secure clinical observation centre for 30 accused persons will be established in Haren, following the example of the renowned Pieter Baan Centre in the Netherlands, so that a better diagnosis can be made. But it is true that we must not only work in prisons. Provision should also be made for places in psychiatric centres as well as for outpatient care during and after the period of detention. Ladies and gentlemen, I realise that there are many needs in the care sector. But unfortunately, investing in inmates is rarely at the top of the agenda. What happened here is pushing us right into the facts. Every week, we rightly advocate greater security in our society. Security is about police. Security is about punishment. Security is about prisons. But events have taught us that security is also about care and about meaningful detention. Security is also about control. Colleagues, may I ask a question? Such an approach is important, not just this week, not only next week, but all the years to come. Only in this way can we avoid the need for a flash-flammation policy. This is the only way we can tackle things in a structural way. We'll take that one step at a time. We will make the difference for the many driven people in our prisons, our penitentiary officers, our directors, also the director in Ruiselede, by giving them the instruments they need. Colleagues, in all modesty, that is what we have to do, together, all of us, with the entire Parliament, to make our society safer and to arm it against those offenders.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u49	Mr. Secretary, you're pissing me off. You're just not listening. I'll get you some reading on sadistic psychopaths. Let me describe another low. In 1996, a man was sentenced to life imprisonment for strangling his wife and three children. After 11 years, he was released on conditions, and another 10 years later, those conditions expired. People are tired of this laxity. A child's murder is the most despicable thing one can commit. It is therefore the logic itself that you put these people under lock and key for good. Some crimes are simply unforgivable. I therefore ask you to stop waiting for the new Criminal Code to be effective in life. Stop referring to tbs and treatments; for those horrible killers, life must be effective for life.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u50	Minister, thank you for your answer. I would also like to thank you for stressing the importance of the follow-up of detainees from the first day of detention, whether in pre-trial detention or following a conviction, until the day it is attested that the person is no longer dangerous, even if this would only occur after the person has served his or her sentence. Only in this way will recidivism be drastically limited and we will be able to protect our society properly, especially the most vulnerable people, the very young children. You have announced additional seats, and I welcome them. But it has been announced to us for years and it has been decades since the European Court of Human Rights has repeatedly condemned us because of the lack of places to ensure proper therapeutic follow-up of detainees. We see today why it is more than urgent to be able to answer it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u51	Minister, thank you very much for your convincing answer, which also clearly shows your determination to follow up more closely with the perpetrators. Colleagues, the objective of Vooruit is clear. We need to protect our children better. Anyone who assaults a two-year-old child so hard that it dies should never come into contact with children again. That indeed requires us to act at every level. So let us all take up the gauntlet together. Minister, any proposal you put forward in this half-round to improve the protection of children will be supported by our group. We owe it to Dean and his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u52	Minister, I have listened very carefully. I found your answers clear and clear, unlike Mrs Bury. This dossier affects us very deeply as a human being. This touches me as a mommy of three sons, including a son of four, particularly deep. Colleagues, this is the work of a disturbed individual. We must take all measures to stop such psychopaths permanently and protect our children. Additional places to treat people for life if necessary and additional resources are really needed. You and your cabinet are working hard on the new Criminal Code that will soon be submitted to Parliament. I would like to comment on the proposal put forward by my fellow Members to put on the table all the proposals for better protection and the use of additional instruments and to work together to achieve this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u53	Minister, you want to change the law and use more resources, that is certainly necessary, but I remain sceptical when you speak of 199 additional recruitments. I wonder if that's enough. Year after year, our country is being pointed at. Reports are also being published on how badly our country is in legal terms, in prisons and in medical care in these establishments. Foreign examples show that things can be different and that the relapse rates can be reduced. In order to make that possible, we must not only express intentions, but also release much more resources. That is the cry of many lawyers, victims, lawyers and people working in prisons. We owe this to the victims and the people and children who need protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u54	Thank you for your clear and very convincing answer and commitment. It was also a clear commitment to bet on meaningful detention. It may not be popular to argue for meaningful detention. Some wouldn't rather put someone under lock and key with bread and water and let him or her sweat it out. It will not make our society safer. That won't be the answer. We should not only have the debate if there is an incident, however bad. We all have to work together structuralally to invest in our prison policy. That's not the most popular thing a politician can do. A good detention policy costs money, but is essential. We should definitely avoid a prison being a well of forgetfulness. This will certainly not improve society. We don't agree on everything today. We still have time to discuss this. Whatever we do, it... [[disables microphone]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u55	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, much has been said, and that is good. Hopefully that sound will also sound in committee if we can really get to work, including across party and coalition boundaries. The spirits have matured with regard to the posting. With the coalition agreement it was not yet possible to do so, today I hear something quite different. Gradual accountability and risk assessment: fine, the N-VA is in favour and has been asking for that for a long time. However, there are also consequences. We need to be aware of that. If we value someone at risk and he can be treated, we should. However, we must also bear in mind that when the offender cannot be treated, when nothing helps, we must also dare to say that such a person cannot be released just or simply, even after the end of punishment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u56	Minister, thank you for your encouraging answers. However, I would like to reiterate that, while our society must be able to punish, punish and protect us, it must above all be able to reintegrate. If our society is in a position to punish, it also has to deal with prisoners and authors who have medical and psychological problems to be able to treat, by investing in creating more places in legal psychiatry centres, by setting up mechanisms to ensure that every prisoner is monitored, by providing a panel of alternative penalties, such as treatment sentences. It is only through reintegration, by the care given and by allowing an inmate not to be released under the same conditions that brought him into prison that we will ensure effective protection of our society. Minister, we will follow you in your efforts, in your projects to make reintegration a goal, a goal and a reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u57	Thank you, Minister, for your commitment. Dean's death must not remain without consequences. After thorough examination and handling of this painful dossier, bearing in mind that punishment is never risk free, we will in any case have to amend our regulations so that those who are released, early or not, always have the possibility of being followed and treated. In addition, they must be treated, either inside or outside prison, while serving their sentence. That's crucial. You had already committed yourself to this, you committed yourself to it, Minister. It must be possible for the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health, as well as the Communities, to agree on this treatment. Those appointments must be made before the end of spring.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u58	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 January 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 January 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u59	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr De Maegd. He shall refer to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u60	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2338/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2338/1) The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u61	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u62	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur was Mr Defossé, who referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u63	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2359/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2359/1) The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u64	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u65	Minister, you want to help 80% of people working in this country. Today, the level of activity in our country is only 71%. This is 10% less than in countries such as the Netherlands and Germany, our neighbouring countries and important trading partners. That makes us one of the worst students in the class. We are only leaving behind countries such as Greece, Italy, Spain and Croatia. The fact that we are not doing worse is thanks only to Flanders, which has a rate of activity of 76.2%. It's already beckoning to that 80 %. This contrasts sharply with, for example, Brussels, which lingers on a poor 62.6 %. Wallonia remains at a sad 65.8 %. The question then is what is needed now, to get people to work. Jobs are needed on the one hand and people on the other hand to fill those jobs, people who can and want to fill the jobs. The jobs are here, especially today. More and more jobs are not even filled out. The job vacancy rate in this country rose just before New Year to a record of nearly 200,000 vacancies. The number of people in this country who do not work but could work and perhaps even fill those vacancies is more than tenfold. More than two million people in this country could work, but they don't. Nevertheless, many open vacancies are not filled today. Mr. Secretary, isn't that strange? Of these two million inactive people, another 1.4 million will receive benefits. The question is, however, how is it that those millions of people in this country who could work, but do not, do not find their way to the labour market? Would it be the companies that do not want them? I don't think so. Many companies today do not even have the opportunity to refuse candidates for the vacancies, because there is simply no single candidate. Today, a lot of companies are happy with anyone who would like to work. They then give them a training on the job. Even then, there are still zero candidates for many vacancies. That's not normal anymore, is it? Perhaps it is because wages in this country are too low, but I do not really believe that. In 2019, for the corona crisis, labour costs per hour worked in this country amounted to €40.5. That already made us in Denmark and Luxembourg after the most expensive throughout the European Union. The average wage costs here were already 4 to 5 euros higher than in neighbouring countries of the Netherlands and Germany. In the latter countries, however, an activity rate of 80% is achieved, so it cannot be the wages. The comparison with the Netherlands and Germany makes it quite clear that we really cannot afford to derail labour costs in our country even further. Yet it happens here and now, under your eyes, and lets you commit. In 2020, labour costs per hour worked in our country increased by as much as 8%. It was striking that the net wage per employee fell by 3% in the same year. Despite rising labour costs, there was no rising prosperity. Surely that raises the question of what we are actually doing in this country. Perhaps you can hope and predict quietly that it will improve this year and next year. Forget it, we only have to look at the way energy prices are pushing out and also increase labour costs in our country much more than had previously been predicted. That effect is also much stronger than in the neighbouring countries that I have just mentioned, which is particularly bad. This means that our labour cost handicap, although the Swedish coalition has worked very hard to reduce it considerably from 16% to 10%, will rise this year and next year to 14% to 15%. So back to square one. This puts pressure on the competitiveness of our companies, especially those of the Flemish companies, which are part of a very open economy. It puts the private job creation in our country under pressure again. More than that, jobs are threatening to disappear from our country again. And you? You sit there and look at it. Moreover, you know very well which jobs will disappear from our country in the first place, namely the jobs of those who are most vulnerable in our labour market. Surely you can only face the fact that your sitting still is particularly antisocial? Shouldn't the net wages rise? Of course it is, but without an increase in gross wage costs. Socialists, to which I believe you still belong, are always knocking on their chests, saying that they are united. Mr Minister, at last, as a government, show solidarity with the employers who have to create jobs in our country; show solidarity with the workers, who are increasingly failing to meet their wages by the end of the month, and reduce the burden on labour, so that those who work, save and do so in Belgium will again have more to do at the end of the month or at least have enough to do. Nor does the government do anything about this, except for the one measure, which has already been described by Open Vld itself as merely symbolic, namely the abolition of the special contribution to social security, which appears to be already being postponed. The government is anything but supportive of the employers who have to create jobs. The government debt in Belgium is incredibly high and you allow it to increase further because of increased spending. After all, while you have to make the difference between working and not working just bigger to turn people on to get back to work, you just do the opposite. Instead of reducing unemployment benefits more quickly over time, which your fellow party member Elio Di Rupo dared to do, or rather limit them in time, you increase unemployment benefits, not once, not twice, but three times. Worse still, today, at a time when companies are begging for labour and finding no one who still wants to work, you are even suspending the degressivity of unemployment benefits, because it is apparently very difficult to apply in the corona crisis. I didn't understand how people can't come out today looking for a job. In this way, you will ensure that social security expenditure is completely derailed by ten billions of euros per year alone. Of course, our companies also feel that it is extremely expensive today to undertake in the country and taxes are too high, just as social contributions are too high. This undermines the country's competitiveness. This, combined with a lack of labour to fill open vacancies, threatens our prosperity. In addition to the high wage costs and the labour cost handicap, which makes you grow again, the failure to fill the vacancies is the second job-destructive factor in your policy, just as a result of your refusal to take any active measure for our labour market. If vacancies are not filled long enough, they disappear. They disappear and don't come back. For example, in the catering industry on the coast, it will not be much better elsewhere, because there are no more two closing days per week, but more and more three days. That's not because people make enough money on four days, but because they don't find anyone who wants to work anymore. Your sitting still, Minister, is devastating. If you really want to keep our economy healthy and competitive, you must finally put the large reservoir of inactive labour to work. Only in this way can you show the investors that our country has potential to invest, and you can make sure that the vacancies in this country are filled and more people have a good income in this country. In this way you will finally be able to reduce the immense pressure on our expensive social security. After all, more people will contribute and fewer people will have to make use of it. My question is actually very simple, Minister. It is not the first time I have asked you this question, but it is essential that you take action. What are you waiting for? Why don't you take responsibility? When will you finally do so yourself, instead of always passing it on to the social partners, who have long failed to reach a single social agreement, unless they can of course transfer the invoice to the taxpayer? What is to stop you, Minister, from finally taking the first activating measure with the Croo Government? Don't you want it? Can't you do it? Don't you dare? Be honest about that, Minister. You're Minister of Work. When will you finally get to work?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u66	Thank you, Mr Anseuw, for your interplay. In the beginning, I thought it was an interplay with the Minister of Finance. You often talked about finance and less about work. In any case, as you rightly point out, some of the competences in the area of employment lie with the regions. However, the Regions are not only competent for the activation of job seekers, as opposed to what you seem to think. Because of the various institutional reforms that our country has undergone, the regions are now responsible for, for example, employment services, programmes for the employment of the unemployed, including the social economy, and the employment of persons entitled to social integration or to financial social assistance. They have the power to control the active and passive availability of the unemployed and to impose sanctions. They may determine the conditions for exemption from availability to the labour market while maintaining benefits. This concerns conditions such as study resumption, vocational training or an internship. They shall also have the power to grant or not to grant the exemption. The regions are also responsible for target groups policy, for various reductions in employers' social security contributions, for the granting of contributions to benefitable unemployed persons returning to work or for vocational training, for the granting of contributions to employers and pupils in the context of alternance learning systems and for the definition of the conditions under which temporary work can be used in the context of employment trajectories. In addition, Flanders has competence in the field of education, both for education and for alternance learning. You will therefore agree with me that employment policy is largely the responsibility of the regions. However, the federal government remains responsible for part of the activation of the jobseekers and is responsible for the legislative framework concerning the regulations on appropriate work, the active search for work, administrative control and sanctions and the material enforcement of sanctions. In the framework of these powers, we have taken a number of measures to address the problem of the bottleneck professions. As I have already explained in the debates on my general policy paper, a recovery and transition plan has been drawn up with many measures to combat this problem. The plan has been drawn up in a law laying down various provisions currently being discussed by the government. The text will be submitted for advice to the social partners and will be implemented in some royal decisions which will follow the same timing. Since this is a matter of shared competence, my cabinet and myself are in constant contact with Flemish Minister for Work, Mrs Crevits, and with the Ministers for Work of the Brussels-Capital Government, the German-speaking Community and the Walloon Region, in particular Mr Clerfayt, Mrs Weykmans and Mrs Morreale. We often discuss the questions of the regional ministers and how we can respond to them. For example, following the Inter-Ministerial Conference on 14 December, we decided to set up an inter-federal platform to combat bottleneck professions and strengthen the mobility of workers. The platform shall be composed of the regional and federal employment administrations and shall be responsible for analysing the technical and institutional feasibility of proposals from the political level. If necessary, this platform will also prepare the work. In addition, advice will be sought on bottlenecks and recommendations to promote worker mobility, in particular between regions and between labour pools in the same region. The first task assigned to this platform is to analyse a number of issues from an asymmetrical perspective. Firstly, how can the autonomy of the Länder with regard to the availability of job seekers be increased within the existing institutional framework? Secondly, how can the federal framework for the succession of temporary unemployed be improved, so that employers and workers are encouraged to use longer periods of temporary unemployment to receive training? In addition, how can workers in a situation of structural temporary unemployment be temporarily employed with another employer, with the possibility of returning to their original job as soon as possible? This must, of course, avoid any abuse in connection with posting. We expect this analysis by 10 February at the latest. The platform should also analyse a series of proposals. These proposals come from the three regions and the German-speaking Community. This analysis shall be completed by 28 February at the latest. Finally, I would like to remind you of a few issues relating to the bottleneck professions. This term conceals a number of different employment problems. First of all, there are different levels of difficulty in recruiting, ranging from a real shortage of candidates to simply long-term recruitment. There are then several possible causes of deficits. The regions, which draw up a list of bottleneck professions on their territory each year, distinguish between two categories, namely qualitative and quantitative reasons. Quality reasons usually mean that the applicant's profile is not in line with the profile sought by the company, with regard to the diploma required, professional experience, languages to be mastered, mobility, etc. We can also mention the terms of employment that do not encourage the potential candidate to apply or accept the job. These include, for example, the type of contract, the working regime, the salary, the condition, the working hours, the distance or the journey and the physical or mental burden of the job. Unlike you, Mr Anseuw, I am convinced that the social partners play a fundamental role in addition to the various governments which have to take action. Therefore, the recovery and transition plan provides for the establishment of a sectoral monitoring of deficits. It is essential that the sectors identify their deficits, analyse the causes and propose solutions to remedy them. Improving working conditions through better contracts and more attractive working regimes or better wages are certainly the first answers to the shortages we are experiencing today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u67	At the beginning of your reply, you were rather harsh about the fact that I sometimes dared to ask about the competence of the Minister of Finance. You represent the government here. Moreover, I cannot ask about your labour market policy, because that is still non-existent. You then took a long time to try to put the ball in the camp of the Regions. That's pretty cheap. They do have a number of powers in this area, but you forget to mention that important keys are still federal. That's exactly the problem. The problem is not that the social partners want to play a role in labour market policy; the problem is that you do not take responsibility. Your answer really disappoints me. Every time you play the same tune, nothing actually happens. How many concrete measures did your big announced employment conference in September last year produce? It has not delivered any measure. There, moreover, it was agreed with the Länder that a number of matters should be concreteised in the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Work. However, there is no concrete result of this today. Flanders stays on its hunger there. I am not the only one to say that, because last month Mr Verherstraeten stood here at the barricade proclaiming that at the federal level everything was arranged for the activation policy, while Mrs Crevits, whom I can hardly suspect, would like to argue with anyone who, today in the newspaper, said that nothing has yet happened. Meanwhile, the Flemish labour market is on fire. In Brussels and Wallonia there is also increasing concern about the shortage of suitable candidates in different sectors. In Flanders, the shortage has become so severe that in certain sectors the operation and production is at risk of falling silent. This means very specifically that Flemish prosperity and Flemish well-being are lost because you are holding the Flemish labour market hostage by doing nothing. That is unacceptable. The circumstances today represent an excellent opportunity to achieve and make concrete the objective of an activity rate of 80%. Until today, however, nothing is happening under the De Croo administration. If you don't have any inspiration, that's no problem. Since June last year, there has been a list of 29 concrete proposals from the Flemish Government on your desk to work together to strengthen activation policy, to achieve together the objective of an activity rate of 80%. However, you do not give at home. The beginning of your answer, in which you always referred to the Regions, is the perfect illustration of the fact that you don't actually give at home. You are paying lip service to a number of these proposals by including them in your own list of 35 proposals, but it is still fruitless waiting for the first legislative texts to be implemented. You are literally doing nothing today, except now and then the problem of paying lip service and announcing a number of things. Finally, make work of the activation of the temporary unemployed, with compulsory registration for temporary unemployed at the VDAB in Flanders and the counterparts in the other regions. Create greater autonomy for the regions with regard to the availability of job seekers, because you know very well that they do not have the hands to do so. Work on those transitions. Work on monitoring the impact of the SWT and runways. Work together with your colleagues on a pension reform that encourages people to work longer, a pension reform that also removes thresholds to continue working after retirement. A lot of people want that, too. Work with your colleagues on the reintegration of long-term ill into the labour market. None of that will happen. Mr. Secretary, working is not a punishment. You're laughing, but I have the impression you're afraid it's a punishment for people to help them get to work. Working is not a punishment, work gives a chance at a decent income. It also provides additional social contacts and greater involvement in society, to which one actively contributes. It gives structure and meaning, one gets appreciation. If you don't believe that, try it yourself. You will experience that yourself. I think this is the best lesson you can learn today. Get to work at last, Minister, so that people in this country can finally get to work, so that our companies can continue to work and so that people will have much better things tomorrow than today and yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u68	Thank you, Mr. Anseuw. No motions were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u69	The plenary session of 16 December 2021 decided to publish in the Belgian Monitor an appeal for French candidates for the term of office of Director of the Knowledge Centre (member of the Management Committee) of the Data Protection Authority. The plenary session of 16 December 2021 decided to publish a call to French-speaking candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of Director of the Knowledge Centre (Member of the Management Committee) of the Data Protection Authority. In accordance with Article 36(2)(2) of the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, the members of the Management Committee must have a 'functional knowledge of the other national language and English'. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 36 (2) of the Law of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, members of the Management Committee should have a functional knowledge of the other national language and of the English language. Since the concept of 'functional knowledge' is not specified in law or in parliamentary proceedings, the House must establish the level of linguistic knowledge. Since the concept of 'functional knowledge' is not specified in law or in parliamentary preparation, the Chamber should set the level of language knowledge. When the Executive Committee members were appointed in 2019, the level of linguistic knowledge required for the other national language and for English was as follows: Level C1 for'reading'; Level B2 for oral expression'. When the members of the Management Committee were appointed in 2019, the following level of language knowledge was required for the other language of the country and for English: the level C1 for'read'; Level B2 for "speak." In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 January 2022, I propose: 1 to require the same level of linguistic knowledge as was required in the previous appointment procedure (level C1 reading test and level B2 oral examination) for the call for candidates for the appointment of Director of the Knowledge Centre (member of the Management Committee) of the Data Protection Authority; 2. use the Selor for the organisation of the Dutch language test and the English oral test; 3rd use the British Council for the organisation of the English reading test. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 January 2022, I propose: require 1° the same level of language knowledge as during the previous appointment procedure (level C1 reading and level B2 oral trial) for the call to candidates for the mandate of Director of the Knowledge Centre (member of the Management Committee) of the Data Protection Authority; 2° appeal to Selor for the organisation of the Dutch language test and the English oral test; 3° appeal to the British Council for the organisation of the English reading test. No objection? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u70	By e-mail of 5 January 2022 Mr. Yves de Locht (physician) announced his resignation as an effective member of the Central Prison Supervision Board (CCSP). By e-mail dated 5 January 2022, Mr Yves de Locht (doctor) announced his resignation as an effective member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Service (CTRG). In accordance with Article 24, § 7, paragraph 3, of the Law of Principles of 12 January 2005 concerning the Prison Administration and the Legal Status of Prisoners, the member whose term of office ends before the expiry of the five-year period shall be replaced by his alternate for the remainder of the term of office. In accordance with Article 24, Paragraph 7, third paragraph, of the Basic Law of 12 January 2005 on the prison system and the legal status of the detainees, the Member whose term of office expires before the expiry of the five-year period shall be replaced by his alternate for the remainder of the term of office. However, Mr Yves de Locht's term as alternate is vacant since his alternate, Mr Marc Vanderveken, resigned on 2 February 2021 and no alternate has so far been appointed. However, Mr de Locht's term of office is vacant as his alternate, Mr Marc Vanderveken, resigned on 2 February 2021 and until now no alternate could be appointed. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 January 2022, I propose that you publish a new call for candidates to the Moniteur belge for the appointment of an effective French-speaking member as a doctor. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 January 2022, I propose that you publish a new call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of an effective French-speaking member as a doctor. No objection? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u71	By letter of 5 January 2022, Mr. Bart Preneel requested that he be relieved of his duties as a member of the Information Security Committee. By letter dated 5 January 2022, Mr Bart Preneel asked to be removed from his duties as a member of the Information Security Committee. As a former member of the Sector Committee of the National Register, he was appointed a member of the Federal Authority Chamber of the Information Security Committee, pending the new composition of the Information Security Committee. As a former member of the Sectoral Committee of the National Register, he was appointed as a member of the Federal Government Chamber of the Information Security Committee, pending the new composition of the Information Security Committee. In accordance with Article 4, § 1, of the Act of 5 September 2018 establishing the Information Security Committee, the Government should be informed of its resignation since the members of the Information Security Committee are appointed by the Chamber, upon presentation by the Council of Ministers. In accordance with Article 4 (1) of the Act of 5 September 2018 establishing the Information Security Committee, the Government should be informed of its resignation as the members of the Information Security Committee are appointed by the Chamber, on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 January 2022, I propose that you take note of the resignation of Mr Bart Preneel and bring it to the attention of the Government. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 January 2022, I propose that you take note of Mr Bart Preneel's resignation and inform the government accordingly. No objection? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u72	The government called for urgency pursuant to rule 51 when the bill on temporary support measures was introduced due to the covid-19 pandemic, No. 2430/1. The Government has requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law providing temporary support measures as a result of the COOVID-19 pandemic, No. 2430/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the government is calling for urgent action to be taken on a draft law which provides support for families and businesses affected by the corona crisis. In view of the uncertainty caused by the circulation and further emergence of the Omikron variant and its impact on the health situation, the federal government decided to extend a number of economic support measures in mid-December to deal with the corona crisis. These aid measures would remain in force until 31 March 2022. In order to give citizens and businesses certainty as soon as possible about the existence of these aids, it is appropriate that the Court should be able to consider this draft as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u74	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u75	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (art. 75, n° 5, Rgt) If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. (art. 75, nr. 5, Rgt) No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. I also propose that you take into account and refer to the committee responsible: the bill (Mrs. Florence Reuter, Mr. Jean-Marc Delizée and Mrs. Cécile Cornet, Nahima Lanjri, Tania De Jonge, Anja Vanrobaeys and Evita Willaert) introducing a temporary bridge measure following the extreme weather conditions of July 2021, No. 2437/1. I also propose that you consider and send to the committee responsible: the bill (Mrs Florence Reuter, Mr Jean-Marc Delizée and Mrss Cécile Cornet, Nahima Lanjri, Tania De Jonge, Anja Vanrobaeys and Evita Willaert) introducing a temporary measure under the right of bridging following the extreme weather conditions in July 2021, No. 2437/1. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u76	Mr Piedboeuf, you are asking for the urgency of Bill No. 2437/1 introducing a temporary right-of-way measure following the extreme weather conditions of July 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u77	Madam President, my request for urgency is based on the fact that these provisions should have been introduced as amendments in December. That was not the case. It is therefore necessary to resubmit them in the form of a bill, co-signed by several colleagues. The text aims to support by a simple bridge right all self-employed, caregivers and assisting spouses who have been affected by floods and who can claim a 65 per cent loss of income.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u78	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u79	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission of 12 January 2022. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Justice Committee on 12 January 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 212/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Katleen Bury; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Philippe Pivin. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 212/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Katleen Bury; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Philippe Pivin. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Jaspar is one of the five directors who resigned from the Data Protection Authority in December. She did that through a letter in very strong terms. She says, "I've done everything I can to prevent conflict of interest and lack of integrity. But everyone's gonna be late. I don't want to be an accessory to that." This gives a not exactly positive picture of what's going on within the GBA. It is responsible for screening legislative proposals on privacy issues, which ensure that citizens' personal data are protected, or should be protected. According to the outgoing director, her service cannot function because some members are wearing double caps. She refers to Frank Robben for that. The president of the GBA, David Stevens, would also do everything in her power not to defend the privacy of the citizen. Rather, Mrs Jaspar said he was defending the interests of certain bodies, organisations and powerful people. You will notice that the revelations are particularly problematic, not only for the credibility of the GBA but also for the functioning of the service. I have therefore asked the Secretary of State to consult with Mrs Jaspar, to act on her complaint and finally to follow up on the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, which form a whole bundle, to examine the functioning of the GBA and the functioning of the various directors. The Secretary of State indicated to me that there was already a reform in progress, but without a clear deadline. We must get out of the impasse. No decisions have been made in a year. In fact, the reason for that body's existence is completely questioned in this way. The legislation in this area is flawed and is even non-existent. It is not up to a Secretary of State to tell us nicely that he does not interfere with Parliament's work. If Parliament is to get rid of those who do not have it, it is up to the Secretary of State to find a solution and to help us. That is why I have tabled the motion before us. I'm counting on your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u81	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u82	Yes 81 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u83	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda of 12 January 2022. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda of 12 January 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 222/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Leslie Leoni. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 222/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms Leslie Leoni. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, many debates have already taken place in Parliament on inflation. I can only observe that, to date, the effects of inflation are being dismissed as very minimal. It is claimed that inflation is temporary, but inflation will remain permanent in any case. For the next few months, wage increases have been announced, which means that we certainly cannot call inflation temporary now. It will not stop there, because there is still something like the bullwhip effect in the production chain, which will slow down price increases until they end up with the consumer, which leads us to face a higher price level. Ladies and gentlemen, in our motion for a resolution, we are therefore asking for a number of concrete measures to reduce inflation. I am thinking, among other things, of measures on rising wage costs, which means that net wages increase without affecting the competitiveness of Flemish companies, in order to avoid a wage price spiral. We must also ensure that taxes on energy can be reduced so that inflation can be slowed down. We need to protect people's savings, which is very important. The vicious, inflationary circle in which we are about to end up must be broken.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u85	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u86	Yes [[84]] Yes No. [[27]] No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 135 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u87	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission of 12 January 2022. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Justice Committee on 12 January 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 226/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Marijke Dillen; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 226/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Marijke Dillen; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u88	Madam President, we have recently had the opportunity to discuss the problem of overpopulation in our prisons on a number of occasions in the Committee on Justice, as well as the very significant shortage of staff. These two problems, ladies and gentlemen, lead to strikes in our prisons at regular intervals. For these strikes, however, we have every sympathy. This is not a new problem, because it has been dragging on for decades. For decades, successive Justice Ministers have promised a solution, but it has not yet come. There are a number of plans on the table today. There is the construction of two new prisons, but the closure of three other prisons must be taken into account. As a result, net capacity will not increase significantly and will certainly not be sufficient to solve the overpopulation problem in our prisons. It really is a huge structural problem. Once again, all the measures announced by Minister of Justice Van Quickenborne will not be sufficient to remedy this problem. This also gives rise to inhumane conditions in our prisons. We can say that this is absolutely unworthy of a Western and democratic country. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also work very urgently to improve the status of penitentiary staff so that the job becomes more attractive. This will automatically result in more candidates and the significant staff shortages being eliminated. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the majority and opposition, this must be a concern of everyone in this hemisphere. If you take it seriously, you are going to support this motion and not turn to what you call the order of the day in a rather arrogant manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u89	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u90	Yes 87 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u91	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? [[(Non]] ) Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u92	Yes 121 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 135 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[(Non]] [[)]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u93	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? [[(Non]] ) Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u94	Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Vote/vote 1(MOT 212) Mr Jasper Pillen has voted like his group. Sophie Rohonyi voted in favour. Vote/vote 2(MOT 222) Sophie Rohonyi voted in favour. Vote/vote 3(MOT 226) Mrs Marianne Verhaert has voted like her group. Vote/vote 4(2338/1) Mr Dries Van Langenhove has voted like his group. Laurence Zanchetta voted as her group.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-20-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip158x.u95	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Thursday 27 January at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting on Thursday, 27 January, at 2.15 p.m.
