ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u1	Mr President, Secretary of State, my first question concerns the educational museum project at Forest Prison. According to the last timetable communicated by the Government, this prison should no longer be occupied as early as January 2023. Indeed, its residents should all have been transferred by then to Haren's new prison. The prison in Saint-Gilles should remain operational until 2024, while the prison in Berkendael is intended to become a detention home. The question arises as to what will happen to these prisons after these deadlines, since there is nothing now to say what the federal government intends to do with these parcels of land in the heart of Brussels, or what could be done with them until you have decided to sell them, or not. One idea emerged some time ago in civil society, but also in universities, namely to create an educational museum that would be temporary in the first place, and why not then permanent. It would aim to raise awareness among the general public, residents, students, students, magistrates and lawyers of the reality of prisons. Forest prison would be the best place to do this, because it will be the first to be emptied. The museum could be quickly set up, given that few facilities would be needed, the aim being to show the reality of a prison. This would also make it possible not to allow unoccupied places for the time they are reassigned. Finally, the prison has a certain historical and architectural interest, so that its partial and/or temporary preservation by such cultural projects makes full sense. Mr Secretary of State, is the government in favour of the proposal to establish a temporary, and possibly permanent, educational museum on the prison world in Forest, like what had been done in Tongres? Had the Tongres Museum on Prison Reality been evaluated before it was dismantled? If so, could the museum be established as early as 2023 to enable the federal state to dispose of certain parcels of land for the benefit of the Region to make it accessible as long as possible? Do you already have a draft project in progress? Have there been any consultations on this matter? For the rest, I wanted to address with you the issue of the renovations that are planned for prisons, whether these are the Brussels prisons that I have just mentioned and whose inmates will be transferred to Haren prison or, more generally, all those whose old buildings still do not provide decent conditions of detention for prisoners and work for prison officers. The most recent report of the Forest Prison Supervisory Commission has still sadly reminded us of this. Moreover, this is the reason why prison officers regularly strike. That is also why I interviewed the Minister of Justice on January 12. He then replied that EUR 8 million of the Justice budget was spent on maintenance work, which was lagging behind due to the past structural underfunding of technical installations, as well as the modernisation and renewal of security facilities. However, he added that the renovations came within your jurisdiction. Mr Secretary of State, I would also like to hear you react to the comments of your colleague from Justice, who recently announced that, because of the sudden increase in prison overcrowding and the need to release as many places as possible for the execution of the short sentences scheduled for 1 June next, the prison in Saint-Gilles would finally be maintained, in addition to that in Haren. In this regard, you had already had the opportunity to clarify at the committee meeting on 15 February that there were plans to release the prison of Saint-Gilles completely in January 2025. In the meantime, it would retain 50% of its capacity. You also pointed out in this regard that this was a waiting situation and that, therefore, you would only invest where necessary. In other words, not only does the government fail to meet its initial commitments to release old Brussels prisons as early as June 2023, but in doing so it allows us to grow for too long – years! – prisoners in unworthy conditions, as I pointed out as an introduction. Hence my many questions. Therefore, I ask you to forgive me for this. What are these concrete elements that will allow you, at some point, to assess that the situation in Saint-Gilles is no longer a waiting situation? Does this actually mean that, in carrying out the short sentences, the government is taking the risk of keeping the prison in Saint-Gilles even longer? Why take this risk? In the meantime, can you give an in-depth account of the remaining parts of this prison? Which of them would they be automatically closed? Would the psychiatric annex, for example, be closed? I had also already told you of my surprise not to find the Brussels prisons in your multi-year plan that you had the opportunity to present to us recently. I understand, however, that the budget for them is included in the 50 million euros you reserve for extraordinary maintenance and renovations each year. Therefore, how much will it be spent on the renovation of Saint-Gilles prison in the short term? What are the maintenance, maintenance and extraordinary renovations planned at Saint-Gilles by 2024? The Brussels Region is asking for guarantees that plans no longer change, at least in the long term. What guarantees can you give him? In February 2021, the Régie des Bâtiments had objected to the requests for the classification of the prisons of Saint-Gilles and Forest, believing that this would be incompatible with the current use and means of the site. From the moment it is known today that these buildings will lose their prison function, can we hope that this objection will be lifted? Can you also tell me how the amount of EUR 8 million, which is provided for each year in the government's budget for the maintenance of prisons, will be distributed between Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels? Do you have a specific schedule for the renovations to be carried out? If so, could you communicate it to us in full? If not, how do you select the renovations that need to be carried out? With what priorities? What is the difference between maintenance and renovation? Can these renovations include the replacement of a window or radiator or maintenance? It is known that many cells have no window, which makes the conditions of detention quite unworthy. Are renovations planned in the three Brussels prisons? If so, which ones? Within what time frame would they be achieved? Are you considering repairing, for example, the windows of the psychiatric annex? If so, within what time frame? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u2	Mr President, the Secretary of State, our January visit to the Haren prison yard with the committee, some news that followed and the presentation of your multi-annual plan raised questions, in the head of some members of the committee. For my part, I introduced four. This year, Brussels prisons are entering a pivotal period as we are told that as of September 2022, the prisons of Forest, Saint-Gilles and Berkendael will gradually empty. Their inmates will move to Haren's new site. As I read in a comic book of my childhood: "All? No, apparently." Last February, I asked your Justice colleague my questions. The latter stated to the press, not to the deputies or the parties concerned, that the prison in Saint-Gilles would not be immediately closed in 2023. This is contrary to the draft which was presented by him and by you to the Members in the context of this dossier. On the other hand, and always in the press, we learn that the communes of the prisons concerned, and at least that of Forest, complain that they are not informed of your plans to reassign deserted buildings, which you deny. You will no doubt confirm this denial in your answer. You said recently, however, in January, I think, that the three prisons in Brussels are in a deplorable state but that it is no longer appropriate to restore them in the light of the next move. We could follow you to this point, but your colleague from Justice is now sending us back to you to find out the cost of "maintenance and maintenance" of the prison in Saint-Gilles, the time that it will remain open. We are therefore more concerned about this time when it will remain open and therefore about the need to carry out certain work. He also states that the condition of the prison in Saint-Gilles is much better than that of the prison in Forest. So here are my questions for this first part. Did your colleague in the Department of Justice inform you in due course of his intention to extend the assignment of Saint-Gilles prison? I hope so. Did he tell you the duration and the reason for this extension? Is it all or part of the buildings that are affected by the extension? Do you confirm that the condition of the prison in Saint-Gilles allows an extension, since you had spoken of its deplorable state a few months ago? Given this extension of the prison's life, are maintenance and maintenance planned, as the Minister of Justice seems to be asking? If so, can you describe this work, inform us of its scope, timing, duration and cost? I have another question which concerns, more specifically, the phase-out of the relocation of the prisons from Brussels to Haren. I do not go back to the problem of the extension of Saint-Gilles, nor to the fact that the commune of Forest again complains that it is not informed of your plans to reassign the deserted buildings. On the other hand, I note from personal experience that the Justice Committee was able to visit the Haren site on 21 January and was able to see the progress of the work. So I can testify that we were still in the big work on that date, and that we still had some feet in the mud. In these circumstances, it seems to me legitimate to ask you about the phase of the move of the current prisons from Brussels to Haren and about the end of the work of this prison. So these are my questions, Secretary of State. Do you have any specific knowledge of the date of completion of the work? What date is planned for their reception? When will the removal of detainees begin, and precisely from what prison? Will the work be completed before the first detainees arrive in Haren? That seems important to me. If not, will the security conditions be guaranteed at least as far as the site is concerned? If not always, will the good working conditions of the workers who would, by hypothesis, complete the work as well as the safety of the site, be guaranteed on the partially occupied site? How will this move be phased and when will this move be considered complete? The third part of my question concerns the reassignment of the prisons of Saint-Gilles, Forest and Berkendael. I wish to refer to the question as tabled. "Mr. Secretary of State, Brussels prisons are entering a pivotal year: from September 2022, the prisons in Forest; Saint-Gilles and Berkendaele will gradually empty and their inmates will move to the new Haren site.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u3	Thank you for your answers." The last part of my question concerns the cost and quality of the work at Haren Prison. It is a titanic construction site of a prison just as titanic that is about to succeed. It is therefore time to take stock of the cost of this project, its sound management and the evaluation of the public-private partnership through which it was implemented. Until recently, the contractual and financial agreements of this partnership have remained particularly secret for the general public but also for my colleagues who wanted to follow up and monitor them. On page 26, the government agreement further states that: "An audit of all DBFM projects (design, build, finance, maintain) will be carried out". The Haren prison site is part of these DBFM projects. So, Mr Secretary of State, can you summarize the budget and financial balance of the construction of Haren prison? Beyond construction, what will be the cost of maintenance and annual maintenance of the prison? What is the cost-sharing agreement with private partners? In what time and under what conditions will the audit of DBFM's projects, particularly that of Haren Prison, be undertaken? How soon do you intend to inform and involve the Chamber's ad hoc committee in these audits?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u4	Mr. Secretary of State, at the beginning of February, you indicated that the site of the prisons in Saint-Gilles, Forest and Berkendael would continue to be occupied beyond next autumn, the deadline for the detainees to move to Haren. In addition, you indicated that the prison of Forest would no longer be occupied from January 2023, that of Saint-Gilles from January 1, 2025. Finally, the Berkendael women's prison should be transformed into a detention facility. We have consulted your multi-year plan running until 2026 for the real estate needs of the Régie des Bâtiments and we do not see any of the three prisons mentioned above. Mr. Secretary of State, can you explain why they are not here? Does this mean that the Régie will have sold them by 2026? Is it possible to guarantee a right of pre-emption for the Region so that the buildings remain in the hands of the public in order to meet the social needs of the inhabitants and future inhabitants of the two municipalities concerned, especially since there is local demand at the level of the municipality and the Region? She is asking to keep this site in the hands of the public. In addition, a motion was passed by the Forest Communal Council, a motion proposed by the PTB, in which the communal council called for the public nature of these prisons to be maintained. Mr Secretary of State, do you guarantee that this site will be kept in the hands of the public, as requested by the Region and the municipality? I think that with these questions it is possible to have a fairly clear answer on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u5	Mr. Secretary of State, you have grain to grind.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u6	Thank you very much. I'm not going to turn my answer into a written answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u7	This is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u8	I will try to answer as fully as possible. With respect to the questions relating to DBFM, I would take advantage of the question put to me by Mrs Rohonyi to be comprehensive on this aspect of things. With regard to the future of the three prisons in Forest, Saint-Gilles and Berkendael, I can reply that for the prison in Saint-Gilles, part of this institution – namely wings A, B and C – will indeed be still occupied until 31 December 2024 – even 2025, at the request of the Justice. It is clear that the Régie des Bâtiments will not undertake substantial work on the buildings that should eventually be sold. However, there are plans to maintain comfort and safety. These investments and elements should help to preserve 50 per cent of the prison in Saint-Gilles. I had planned to let you know in writing, but I'm going to read them here. Maintenance work is actually planned. Thus, the boilers of wings A and C will be replaced this year for an estimated budget of €287,000. The B wing carpentry will also be repaired. The lamps of the excavators (?) will also be renewed for less than 300 000 euros, but only in wings A, B and C. The intercom will also be rehabilitated. In addition, the cells are separated and in good condition. The emergency power generator is in the delivery phase. Fire compartment is under way. These investments and elements help to preserve 50% of the prison in Saint-Gilles. If an extension beyond 2025 is still planned, additional investments will be required for building maintenance, but this is not on the agenda at this time. The maintenance work does not exceed EUR 3 million and is therefore not included in the investment plan. Indeed, as a reminder, the Multiannual Investment Plan only refers to projects that go beyond EUR 3 million. All this applies to the prison of Saint-Gilles. For Forest prison, she will no longer be occupied from January 2023. Therefore, no investment is foreseen. As far as Berkendael prison is concerned, we have an envelope of more or less EUR 73 000 0000 which is planned for the creation of 720 places in detention centres. The Berkendael prison is therefore not the only one concerned. The work to transform this prison will obviously be taken from this budget. Berkendael prison will be operational in the second quarter of 2023. This new detention facility will have to accommodate a maximum of 60 detainees. With regard to collaborations with local authorities, several reassignment studies have been carried out at Forest and Saint-Gilles sites since 2014. To date, discussions are under way with the Brussels-Capital Region with a view to redevelopment of the site, in accordance with the existing land allocation, i.e. equipment of public interest or public service. I therefore confirm that the contacts are under way and that they are going well with both the Brussels Region and the municipalities. I come to the question of the transfer of prisoners. According to the current schedule, Haren Prison will be available from 1 July 2022. It is expected that the SPF Justice will be able to start moving the first detainees to this prison from 1 September 2022. The way in which this facility will be organized depends, of course, on the FPS Justice and not on the Régie des Bâtiments. The objective is that all work be completed upon the arrival of the first detainees. Note that if the safety conditions are not met, no certificate of availability will be issued. All potential workers on the site will have to carry out their work according to the security protocol imposed by the SPF Justice. The construction cost of Haren prison is EUR 315 692 218.16 HTVA, which will result in a quarterly investment fee and maintenance fee of EUR 7 339 017.73 VATC and EUR 2 709 279, 53 VATC for 25 years respectively. The exact financial impact of the additional work will only be known on the date of availability, as negotiations on this matter are still under way. Finally, regarding the installation of a temporary educational museum, I will meet in the coming days with the president of the League of Human Rights so that the project of a museum within the prison of Forest that it develops in collaboration with the International Prison Observatory can be exposed to me and we can discuss it. But, a priori, I am in favour of it;
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u9	Mr. Secretary of State, thank you for your answer, which I must acknowledge much more detail than I was able to get from the Minister of Justice. The latter had simply told me that there would ultimately be no precise timetable for the work, as it would be planned and carried out in the course of the year, taking into account the emergencies. Today, much more clearly, you are telling me that we are not going to undertake heavy work for buildings that would then be sold, because that would make no sense. At the same time, you recall that a commitment was made to carry out the carpentry and boiler work. However, I wonder about the windows. I would like to stress this aspect, because last December I visited the prison of Saint-Gilles again, on my own initiative. On that occasion, I found that entire rooms had no windows. It is therefore a matter of concern, especially since you specify that this establishment would be maintained until the end of 2024 or even 2025. It is, therefore, a new deadline that you are announcing to us. You have the merit of honesty, but that is still worrying. In my view, it is necessary to communicate very clearly to the directorates and departments of these prisons, because they have been complaining for years that they have not received accurate answers to their requests for maintenance, even though their situations have been known for a long time. Thus, prisoners and prison officers cannot be told that they only have to wait another one, two or even three years before receiving decent conditions. For the rest, as far as the Pedagogical Museum is concerned, I hear your open-mindedness and I sincerely want to thank you for it, even if we expect it to be translated into action. In any case, this project seems essential to me, because it will make the population aware of prison reality, as was the case in Tongres. Moreover, I would have liked to know more about the evaluation of this museum that would have been undertaken. It came back to me that it had already welcomed nearly 300,000 visitors in only three years of existence, including many youth groups. We learned that he had to stop his activities when the former prison was reassigned to a closed centre for young offenders, despite protests by magistrates, criminologists, lawyers, educators and teachers, who considered that a visit to Tongres was worth "a lot more than all the speeches made about these young people and than a Penal Code", the very one we all have just enthusiastically modernized. Secretary of State, I can only encourage you in this endeavour.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u10	Mr. Secretary of State, your answer has been shorter than our questions, but it has had the merit of being reassuring on several points. She gave the details we were waiting for. I take note of your interest in this educational prison project. I would point out that I had not been consulted by the association but by a natural person. I hope that this is the same project or that if several projects are presented to you, you will receive them all with the same benevolence. I may have been distracted, but I did not hear you about the audit of DBFM contracts that were concluded by the Régie des Bâtiments. I know the work is going on, but I insist on the seriousness with which this audit is to be conducted. I ask you that new contracts not be concluded by the Régie des Bâtiments until we have in our possession the results of this audit.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u11	I have answered point 8 to the question you are referring to.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u12	Who will live will see.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u13	Mr President, I would have liked to reply to the Secretary of State, but unless I was mistaken or inattention, I did not hear a clear answer from him to my question, which was this: do you guarantee that the site will remain in the hands of the public and that priority will be given to the Region? I am quoting here the PTB motion that was voted on at the Forest Communal Council. It explicitly states: "Requests the federal government to clarify its position on the current occupation of the site and the future allocation of the site of the three prisons." This motion called for the site to remain 100% public. That was the subject of my question. I wanted a clear answer on this. Do you guarantee the public maintenance of the site or is there a possibility of selling it to the private sector, which would be a disaster for both municipalities and for the Region that absolutely needs space and buildings?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u14	I will of course confirm to you that the assignment is, a priori, on the basis of the information received from the Region, intended for an area of collective and Community equipment, thus a public destination. Today I prefer a collaboration, including a sale, to a public authority. Nevertheless, this is subject to the valuation that can be made of it. Of course, we're not going to sign a blank check. If anyone tells us they're buying it for a euro, it'll be different. There will have to be a collective intention to collaborate on well-identified bases, with correct valuations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that Mrs Jadin has transformed her questions Nos 55024716C, 55024800C, 55025080C and 55026530C into written questions. The same applies to question No 55024730C by Mrs Verhaert. I therefore thought I would suggest that you deal with point 9 because Mr Aouasti tells me that he is expected in another committee, but Mrs Rohonyi has just come out. In any event, his question under item 8 came up. Until he gets back, we have to go to point 11. Mrs Jadin and Mrs Verhaert report. Mr. Cogolati is absent, as well as Mr. D'Amico. He transformed his questions Nos. 55025572C and 55026190C into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u16	Mr President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u17	Mr Troasts, I am told by the Directorate of Buildings that she does not yet have all the information on the EPC certification of buildings. The EPC certification, which is a legal obligation for the user of the building and which must itself ensure that it is visible, has not yet been carried out for all complexes, but should take place for the buildings concerned in the course of 2022. In order to help the occupiers comply with this obligation, the Buildings Regie has launched two framework contracts for the appointment of EPC certifiers in the Brussels-Capital Region and the Walloon Region. The EPC certification in the Flemish Region is carried out through the VEB, Vlaams Energiebedrijf. For the Brussels-Capital Region and the Walloon Region, these will be made available to the customers of the Buildings Regie. The two framework contracts for the appointment of certifiers for public buildings were notified for Brussels at the end of 2021, with the exception of a plot for which the initial tenders were not acceptable, but that has since been republished and notified. For Wallonia, this happened at the beginning of 2022. From now on, therefore, they can be used by the public authorities housed by the Government of the Buildings. Mrs Buyst is not here, but I will answer her question anyway. In view of the elements requested, I invite her to send me her question in writing and I will be happy to answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u18	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u19	I wanted to make it clear that the length of an answer is not synonymous with quality.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u20	I agree with you, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u21	It must be complete, of course, but quality is not necessarily proportional to length.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u22	Mr President, we are doing our utmost to ensure that length and quality are on the table!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u23	"Mr. Secretary of State, Since 2010, the Régie des Bâtiments has promised renovation and security work for the small prison in Huy, built in 1871. The prison is in a deplorable state, unpleasant for detainees and dangerous for the quality of work of the staff. The proposed work has been the subject of unfulfilled promises and permanent postponements. A budget of some 20 million must be made available to renovate and expand the establishment, but not until 2026. 1. Why will renovations only take place in four years' time? Why are the renovations of Huy's prison after those of Bruges and Arlon? Investments were already planned by October 2022, what about it? Are they being postponed again? Where will inmates be relocated during renovations? The architecture of the building dating from the 19th century, it is evident that its structure no longer meets the current standards of security and infrastructure, particularly in the context of pandemic-related health measures. Turntiles at the exit of the meadows and nets were requested for staff safety. 2. What decisions will be taken in this regard? If the turnstiles and nets requested for years are really envisaged, when will they be set up in Huy?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u24	Mr President, thank you for your question. The renovation of the Huy prison is included in the multi-year investment plan. This project of more than 20 million euros is envisaged after 2026 and has been the subject of an arbitration between all the large files requested by all the clients of the Régie des Bâtiments. On the basis of the information provided to me by the Régie des Bâtiments, investments in the renovation or improvement of the installations are well planned and will be carried out or closed in 2022, including the installation of a tourniquet and the installation of an individual preau for 200 000 euros, the motorisation of a double-flying gate for the entry of vehicles for 50 000 euros, the modernisation of the camera system for 40 000 euros and the renewal of the electrical installation of the laundry for 7,500 euros. However, in anticipation of the heavy renovation, the services of the Régie des Bâtiments and the Justice Department will indeed have to define the arrangements for the organization of the site and a decision will have to be taken as to whether some of the detainees will be kept on site during the renovation. Finally, the tourniquet placement will be carried out from this year onwards. The Régie des Bâtiments is not informed of a request for the placement of nets.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u25	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. These are long-awaited investments. It is true that Huy's prison is a very old prison dating back to 1871. When we talk about nets, for example, these are investments that are necessary and even urgent simply to ensure the safety not only of the detainees but of course also of the staff. I hope that we will be able to accelerate these investments in securing the prison also for the well-being of prisoners and staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u26	Questions Nos 55026777C, 55026778C and 55026895C by Mr Roggeman are deferred.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u27	Mr Delizée, within the framework of the bicentenary in Belgium, the role of the Régie des Bâtiments is mainly to carry out the renovations of the buildings of the Cinquantenaire, for which we have obtained the necessary funding. These are projects carried out and budgeted in collaboration with Beliris, as well as projects managed by the Régie des Bâtiments itself, concerning the Royal Institute of Artistic Heritage (IRPA), the Art & History Museum, the Museum of the Army or even Autoworld. More specifically, it is a feasibility study for the IRPA and the Art & History Museum, under the direction of the Régie des Bâtiments, an IRPA master plan and the Art & History Museum, a renovation of the roofs of three museums (Art & History Museum, Autoworld and the Army Museum), under the direction of the Régie des Bâtiments, a renovation of the façades and carpentry of Autoworld and the Musée de l'Armée, under the direction of the Régie des Bâtiments, a reclamation of the park, under the direction of Beliris, and a renewal of the lighting of the buildings in the park, under the direction of Beliris. The renovation of the museum roofs is in its final phase, with work on the roofs of the Army Museum. The roofwork of the Art & History Museum and Autoworld has already been completed and the renewal of the lighting of the buildings has been completed since the summer of 2021. On 1 April 2022, the Council of Ministers also took note of all the renovation work carried out and already planned for a total amount of EUR 157 million. At the timing level, if everything goes as planned, all projects should be closed by 2029. With regard to the allocation of amounts, I invite you to ask me a written question for further details. Finally, a collaboration with Beliris via an amendment and a collaboration with Brussels-Environnement via a convention with the Régie des Bâtiments are actually planned as part of the renovation and beautification of the Parc du Cinquantenaire. This is the work of the Régie des Bâtiments. As far as scenography, museum functions and surplus are concerned, I invite you to ask my colleagues in charge of Defence and Scientific Policy about the timing and financing of projects relating to the development of the functions of the 50th Anniversary site.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u28	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for these answers. I must say, for having lived under the previous legislature a period of budget savings or austerity that cadenasized the budgets of the federal scientific institutions and federal museums, that we are here from another perspective. You remember the polemic "it rains in museums" a few years ago. I am obviously pleased that there are investments through various sources, including what has been discussed together about your multi-annual investment plan, but also through the recovery plan. The bicentenary of our country gives the opportunity to prepare a series of our most prestigious institutions. It is the heritage of our country that can be restored to the taste of the day or strongly renovated, as well as its culture. Some of the museums I've visited have great needs. So I am really looking forward to this investment. You give us a timing which implies that all this should be closed for the bicentenary, provided that the procedures follow their course within the prescribed time. I note that there are additional questions to ask. I also note that Beliris is making its contribution to funding. This forum is very useful for Belgium as a whole, even if the museums are mainly located in the territory of the Brussels-Capital Region. I imagine that the consultations with your colleagues, the Brussels-Capital Region and the City of Brussels took place in order to achieve this result. That was one of the elements of my question. I will consider that to be the case. That concludes, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u29	Mr Secretary of State, I recently had the opportunity to visit the Archives de l'Etat in Liège, on the site of Cointe. I was struck by the thermal conditions and the preservation of the archives, both because of the humidity and cold conditions in these places, which are visited by the public as well as by the researchers and workers of the site. It was a little over a month ago. It was about 13 degrees in the building. One can see a problem of comfort for the teams, knowing that temperatures can dive below 10° and rise in summer, especially during heatwaves. Beyond the questions of the well-being and access of students and citizens to archives, there is also the question of their deterioration. Paradoxically, the most recent archives - even if parchments dating back to the age of the Principality of Liège are also found - are the most damaged by the deterioration due to temperature changes. The heating and ventilation system has clearly failed for several years. This problem arose at the Régie des Bâtiments. Mr Secretary of State, can there be any prospects for restoring heating? The aim is to ensure proper preservation of the archives and also to provide acceptable working conditions for workers and researchers visiting the site.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u30	Mr President, thank you for your question. The Régie des Bâtiments informs me that it is well aware of the problem of heating in the buildings of the archives of the State of and in Liège. Measures have already been taken to repair the shelving ventilation system; The ventilation system is complex and the repair must be carried out in several stages. The first step was to replace some out-of-service relays that control the engines. The replacement of the out-of-service relays and controls and the attempt to restart the installation revealed that one of the starting engines of one of the air units was defective. As a result, the plant had to be stopped again. The engine of the defective air treatment plant has already been delivered and installed. Only the belts are still to be delivered and installed. In addition, some relays located at the end of the valves must also be replaced. After completion of this work, the installation will be restarted. The Régie des Bâtiments controls the supply of materials and the execution of the works in order to provide a lasting solution to the problems, as soon as possible. Sorry about the technical aspect of my answer, but it allows me to be as precise as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u31	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. Unless I'm wrong, you've been talking about ventilation exclusively. Is this about the heating system or is it related? Do you have a sense of timing in this matter? That is a supplementary question. In any case, I thank you for these first elements of the answer. I may also turn this question into a written question in order to have more details on the timetable. I would like to draw your attention to this issue, because workers and researchers have been in this situation for several years, which is completely unacceptable. In view of the archives, behind the fact that they are a constituent part of historical research, they are also part of our democracy and their accessibility is also a question of democratic law. I invite the Régie des Bâtiments to act as diligently as possible with regard to this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u32	Mr President, Secretary of State; I would like to ask you a slightly lighter question than the previous ones about the renovation work planned at Arlon Prison. Built in 1867, Arlon Prison is one of the country's oldest prisons. The important renovation you have announced through the press is therefore excellent news in view of its age. Your multi-year investment plan places this project among its priorities, with a range of between 5 and 15 million euros. Could you specify that amount? It is an urban prison that has the quality of being close to both public transport and the courthouse. Its difficulty is, on the other hand, the proximity of the habitat and especially its age. According to the local press, "Arlon Prison, with 111 inmates, will continue to operate during the renovation work. Different movements of prisoners within the prison are planned as part of the organization of this renovation work, says the prison administration". Mr Secretary of State, how do you explain the large and imprecise range announced, between EUR 5 million and EUR 15 million? What amount do you think is most likely, according to updated information? The renovation will include electricity and heating of the building. How do you plan to optimize the insulation and energy efficiency of the building? This seems important to me in view of the increase in energy costs. Accommodation capacity will be maintained during construction. How do you plan to ensure compliance with the conditions of incarceration during this period? Given the relatively narrow nature of the prison, how will the internal displacement of prisoners be able to organize within it? Finally, beyond the necessary renovation, are these works aimed at increasing the capacity of the prison?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u33	Mr President, as I was able to point out in the presentation of the Multiannual Investment Plan (MIP), the range announced is intended to keep a certain degree of confidentiality as to the exact amount of work or investment to be planned. The IPP contains estimates of very specific amounts, which I cannot communicate to you here. The rooms are however accessible to you on request. On the basis of the technical information provided by the Régie, I can give you the following answers. In terms of insulation, the feasibility of isolating walls has been studied but has not been retained, both inside, in view of the loss of the surface of the cells, and outside, due to the risk of fire of the facade. However, the insulation of the building will be improved by replacing all exterior carpentry. In addition, all roofs have been isolated recently. With regard to heating and ventilation, the heating system had been upgraded during the construction of the extension, which houses the prison's administrative services, with the installation of a cogeneration boiler and two condensing boilers, which produce heat and electricity and are supplied with city gas. With regard to electricity, photovoltaic panels will be installed on roofs. This work will be carried out in three phases, one for each wing. They must be completely free of prisoners during the renovation. The organization of the construction areas and phases is being studied, in close cooperation with the prison management, to ensure that the movement of prisoners is kept to a minimum. The experience of the renovation of Namur prison, similar to that of Namur prison, has shown that this is not a particular problem. Finally, the work is not intended to increase the capacity of the prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u34	Thank you for the precision you provided to your answers. However, I regret the difficulty of achieving real and good insulation, but I understand it. This problem is due to the age of the prison. For the surplus, I will allow myself to come back to you, to have more precise figures, in the context of a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u35	"Mr. Secretary of State, in the Mobility Committee on 15 February, you presented your multi-year investment plan 2021-2026 for federal buildings.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u36	Thank you in advance for your answers."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u37	Member, I confirm that the location has been defined on land belonging to the Régie des Bâtiments. However, this establishment must be presented to the urban authorities and the city. It requires administrative procedures and authorizations since part of the construction work would be located in a forested area. As soon as agreement is obtained from the SPW and the city, a schedule will be established. I went there on March 23 and I can reassure you, the window frames are present. However, as a result of the damage, the windows had to be replaced by plexi. The replacement of exterior carpentry with more resistant windows is planned and is included in two phases in the multi-annual investment plan from 2022 to 2026: a firm tranche of 1.5 million euros and a conditional tranche of 1.5 million euros. The terms of reference were submitted to the Directorate-General for Penitentiaries (EPI) in February 2022 and are currently being amended by the Régie in line with DG PPE's remarks. It will be submitted for agreement later this month. According to the proposed schedule, publication of the contract would be possible in June 2022, the opening of tenders in August 2022 and the completion of work in the third quarter of 2022 or at the very beginning of 2023. This implies that no major administrative or technical problems arise. As far as the showers are concerned, during my on-site visit, I was able to see that they were a problem. According to the Régie, the production of hot water would be sufficient to guarantee one shower per day per inmate. However, distribution is currently problematic. A short-term intervention will be carried out pending a more lasting solution. In this context, a draft general technical specifications for the renovation of showers in prisons – a better resistance in terms of intensive use – is being finalized. This specification will soon be submitted to DG PPE for rereading and possible comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u38	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. It is true that the presentation of your multi-annual plan in February in our committee raised both questions from colleagues and press articles - in this case, for the Jamioulx prison. One of the three points concerned the issue of urban planning. Indeed, the proposed location is a forest area in the area plan. We have to check in the arcanes the urbanist rules of Wallonia what it is to build in such an area but it is not an easy thing. My fear is that time will pass and I nevertheless hope that a solution will be found within a reasonable time. It is still an element of real difficulty, in my opinion. After that, there are the procedures, the city but especially the town planning department in Namur. I hope that this element will not potentially block the file. It's good to have been there because you have to realize things. I will also mention the visits to prisons by our committee at the end, as chairman. I had also visited her. The windows were replaced with cardboard at first. I hear the cardboard has become plexiglas. For winters, even if they are no longer as rigorous as in the past, correct windows should be put back, not to mention the problem of energy loss. I can only invite you to speed up the procedures to do this right. As far as showers are concerned, it is a situation that does not facilitate life in a prison. Correct infrastructure must be ensured. I hear there's both an urgent and an ongoing operation scheduled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u39	You will now allow me to speak as President. I hear there are prison visits and it is normal for the members of the Justice Committee to organise them. But now that the conditions associated with the crisis of the covid allow, it would be interesting if the members of our commission in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments could be involved in visits organised by another commission. In the future, we could also schedule a visit to a prison or other buildings under the Régie's jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u40	I can only encourage you to do so, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u41	Mr President, as a member of the Committee on Justice, I will pay attention to this issue. I do not know if you have direct contact with the chairman of the committee, but I would like to make the link, if I have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u42	In any case, I have not been informed of the visit that has been organised. The number of visitors may be limited. Perhaps, however, joint visits could be arranged between the two commissions. In any event, our committee has a programme of visits which all have an interest. We have a lot to do with science policy and public enterprises. But as a commission in charge of the Régie, it would be interesting if we could visit a prison, whether it be that one, that of Jamioulx or another.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u43	Certainly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u44	We could go together.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u45	With great pleasure. This is an opportunity to see the difference in the heterogeneity of prisons. There are also some structural reasons for deterioration. For example, inmates break the chassis. They have to be fixed almost every week. This is the reality facing our prison directors who are doing remarkable work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u46	In the case of Jamioulx prison, there were movements during which there was a breakage. That's how it is!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u47	Colleagues, Mrs Rohonyi has returned. That's a good thing! We missed you, especially the President. Mrs. Rohonyi, I'm not telling you that I missed you. You've destabilized my timing a little bit. Mr Aouasti, who was in a hurry to go to another committee, is now out. Only one being we miss and the earth is depopulated. That's amazing!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u48	Mr Secretary of State, I wanted to go back to the famous DBFM contracts, which I had already mentioned in your presentation of the multi-year investment plan of the Régie des Bâtiments. I had told you of my doubts about the government's strategy to continue to rely on these contracts for future initiatives, since these contracts are very controversial, so that it was even decided to stop, purely and simply, using them in France. You have responded to my concerns, and I welcome them, so that a reflection on the use of DBFM contracts for future projects would be under way, in which you were planning to propose a collaboration to the Court of Auditors. So this is an eventuality. In the meantime, I read in the press that the majority was going to table a motion for a resolution with the aim of effectively entrusting an audit to the Court of Auditors on the subject, in accordance with the provisions of the government agreement. Except that we are now more than two months later and it must be noted that this text has not yet been tabled. Your last policy note provides that your "attention will be to the conduct of an audit of DBFM (Design, Build, Finance & Maintain) projects in progress". What is the status of these audits? Who will they be entrusted to? Are public contracts already under way for the award of this audit? Why not ask the Court of Auditors? What DBFM contracts will be audited? What will be the objectives of these audits? Do they only aim to assess the effectiveness of these contracts? When can we hope to have the first results of these audits? On the question of whether or not to continue using these DBFMs, in what form do you envisage cooperation with the Court of Auditors? Do you intend to entrust him with an audit as well? On your reflection as such, since when was it started? Has this been done at your initiative? Why? Which actors are involved for the time being? What actors do you intend to involve in the future, apart from the Court of Auditors? Have you taken into account, in your work, the opinion of the French Court of Auditors which advised against continuing to use DBFMs for the construction of new prisons and courts? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u49	Mr. Chair, Member of Parliament, the Government Agreement 2020-2024 provides for an audit of all ongoing DBFM projects. The first reflections were carried out within the Régie des Bâtiments in collaboration with the SPF Justice in March 2021. These reflections took into account the opinion of the French Court of Auditors, as well as those of the European Court of Auditors and more than ten references in the field. In 2021, three intercabinet working groups were held to address the following issues. What should be the scope of the audit? What should be the audit questions? Who should do so and make various comments? Very quickly and unanimously, considering its independence and expertise, the members of the working group proposed that the audit be conducted by the Court of Auditors as you mentioned. A request to this effect, together with the detailed report of the working group, was made to the Chairman of the Court of Auditors Subcommittee at the end of January 2022. However, it was agreed that, as a federal institution, the Régie des Bâtiments was the responsibility of the Mobility Commission. The Commission will therefore shortly have before it a resolution to launch the audit. As soon as the audit is completed, an action plan will be put in place to respond to the recommendations made by the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u50	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your answers and your many pieces of information. I think the way it is done is quite curious. In fact, you announce that you want to continue the construction of new sites through DBFM contracts and, at the same time, you remind us that in the government agreement, there is this will to evaluate their usefulness. Even before this evaluation work is completed, a commitment is made to use a formula that has never been evaluated. While your reflection began in March 2021, you tell us that it takes into account the reports that have already been delivered by the French Court of Auditors or by the European Court of Auditors. How have these reports been taken into account in practice if, at the same time, these DBFM contracts continue to be used? It's something I don't even know about. Furthermore, I would point out that the Belgian Court of Auditors has already ruled on this issue. So we can't act like we're leaving nothing. Already in 2018, the Court of Auditors had the opportunity to submit a partial analysis covering the three DBFM projects that were already finalized at the time, namely Beveren, Leuze and Marche. What was the conclusion? That DBFM contracts cost the Crown more, both in terms of construction and financing and in terms of maintenance. This is particularly unsustainable, I find, at this time when every euro counts to support households in their purchasing power. Mr Secretary of State, I think you really need to be able to clarify your intentions with regard to these DBFM contracts, because it must be noted that your government's commitments in this regard are contradictory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u51	Secretary of State, this is not the first time I have asked you about the maintenance of the Albertine Fountain in Brussels. You told me that she had to be rehabilitated for the month of April. This week, I've been walking around this side again, but it's still not fixed. Degradations at Mont des Arts, especially on its steps and on the side of the Royal Library, are acts of vandalism: graffiti - including on windows -, traces of an attempt to fire, etc. In the past, the Régie des Bâtiments had taken several initiatives. However, there is a lack of regular maintenance. To this end, an awareness-raising and prevention policy must be developed, in cooperation with the police, the Region and the City of Brussels in particular. Mr. Secretary of State, could you tell me when an overall maintenance of the facades will take place, in order to remove the traces of vandalism, particularly on the side of the Royal Library? What structural measures – and how often – do you intend to take to deal with this situation? Will a regular maintenance contract be concluded? Are contacts between the Régie and the other levels of power provided for in the preservation of our heritage against acts of vandalism, while allowing the urban arts to obviously be able to express themselves in various ways?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u52	Thank you, Member of Parliament, for your questions. The objective is clearly to succeed in having tags at wear even if it is a particularly complicated fight. I therefore asked the Régie des Bâtiments to launch a contract to strengthen the cleaning work and to return it weekly to Mont des Arts. You will certainly agree with me, we cannot leave this public space, one of the symbols of our capital, in the state in which it is. A cleaning was done yesterday or the day before yesterday. The next day, the tags were already reappearing. This does require a lot of determination to remain motivated. As a first step, a complete cleaning of graffiti will be carried out. Several cleaning techniques are planned in the market that will be published specifically for the Mont des Arts. The technique used depends on the support and products that make up the graffiti. It is essential that the clean-up should not be at the expense of preserving the heritage. In addition, the Régie des Bâtiments will soon publish a specific market for the Mont des Arts. A budget of EUR 140,000 is foreseen for one year of cleaning, including a weekly interview, I mentioned, for the parties that fall within the competence of the Régie des Bâtiments. As a result, the damage we know is very costly to the community. The Mont de Arts is unfortunately not the only space undergoing significant degradation. In order to remedy this, the Régie des Bâtiments envisages the use of a three-year framework contract to deal with all federal buildings in the Brussels Region and in a second phase for the other Regions. In terms of consultation, a meeting with the public area manager and the various actors on the site was held on 7 March to determine the procedures for cleaning and maintenance. In addition, we have a meeting scheduled for Monday 2 May with the Brussels police area to discuss this problem of vandalism, which is also mentioned. Currently, the municipalities have not been consulted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u53	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. It is true that this issue is not easy, in particular because we are dependent on the distribution of competences in our beautiful country. The Mont des Arts Park is managed by Brussels Environnement and therefore by the Brussels Region. The buildings surrounding this park depend on the Régie des Bâtiments and therefore on the federal government. In this case, it is crucial to be able to focus your work on consultation, on what will really deter tagueurs from continuing to damage jewels such as the Mont des Arts or other public buildings. You say that there is a consultation with the police area of the city of Brussels, but not with the municipalities as such. That's a question for me. Indeed, we will not get to wear, as you say. It is a policy that has already been tried in vain. You yourself recognized this by recognizing that the tabs were reappearing the day after they were cleaned. To this comes the budget necessary to clean up these taboos every week. I hear the budget that has been released, in any case, for the market. It would still have to be seen whether, over the course of time, the budget allocated will always be the one we are talking about today. Indeed, cleanings will have to be constantly renewed. In doing so, I believe that we should instead invest in preventive and awareness-raising measures, as my colleague, Khalil Aousti, rightly said a moment ago. I also wonder about timing. You say that discussions are under way, that the cleaning procedures have been fixed. But when do you think this big cleaning company can start? You said in the press that it would take place before the summer. It would have been interesting to have more information about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u54	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer which presents important elements, such as the fact that there has already been a consultation with the police areas, the fact that you are finally going to have a consultation with the authorities of the city, the fact that you have put a framework to what should be cleaning, namely a weekly cleaning. There may be elements that need to be considered in the context of prevention and awareness-raising policy. I said in my question that I did not read fully about, perhaps, the installation of urban arts areas in the Mont des Arts Park, to see if they can or would prefer – it has been done in the past – to go to these urban art areas than to graph directly on the walls. But it is important that we move forward on this. I hear the amount of the budget you're asking for. I have the same question as my colleague, the beginning of the timing, because there are more and more complaints and fears about the state of disrepair of the Mont des Arts. You said yourself that a cleanup was done a few days later. Unfortunately, and we know that this area is complicated or even complex, new tags have reappeared. This weekly cleaning will therefore be necessary. It must be started as quickly as possible. We know what a public procurement is, what a tender is, what a deadline is, but we need to be able to move forward. I hope that in the summer we can appoint a firm. I heard an amount of 140 thousand euros. I do not know if it understands VAT, because we are just above or below certain public procurement thresholds. Depending on this, a faster procedure may or may not be chosen for maintenance and cleaning costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u55	Mr President, I shall add two or three elements. Mr Aouasti, you point out that the opening of tenders is expected to take place in April. A priori, we're moving pretty fast. As far as the consultations with the commune are concerned, I would like to make it clear that this was in connection with this approach in the market. On the other hand, I would remind you that we can – this is the instruction that I left to my teams – actually take the lead, since there is always this institutional problem, you mentioned it well. However, in terms of security and prevention, they do not fall within the direct competence of the Régie des Bâtiments, you will agree. So, we're really focusing on... and I'm telling you, it's not extraordinary to actually say that we're going to wear them out and that we're going to clean, clean, clean. I believe that a complementary policy must be put in place, and here I really call for the responsibility of the more local authorities on this point. I believe that a complementary policy must be put in place, and I am really addressing this to the responsibility of the more local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u56	Mrs Cécile Cornet being excused, the two questions under agenda item 15 (questions Nos. 55026005C by Mrs Maria Vindevoghel and No. 55026423C by Mrs Cécile Cornet) were postponed to a later meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u57	Mr President, Secretary of State, the Brussels courthouse is a magnificent monument and at the same time a very big stone for the one who has to manage it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u58	For a rock, it's a rock!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u59	It's a rock! Here, I dared to take her out. In 2017, the environmental permit for the Brussels courthouse was broken, a new difficulty to manage. For the past five years, therefore, the Régie has had no licences, even with a fine of 15,000 euros. As a reminder, Brussels Environnement had issued this permit to the Régie des Bâtiments and the SPF Justice for the operation of a series of technical and logistical installations but also about 281 open-air parking spaces located in the immediate vicinity of the building. In the end, parking spaces near the Belgian heritage proved problematic and caused the permit to be broken. A fine of 15,000 euros for the Régie des Bâtiments may seem anecdotal at the level of its budget, but the very principle that an administration such as yours does not respect the rules that are imposed on everyone shock me. And even more so, the Régie seems to have even wanted to avoid this conviction, so that costs of delay and execution have come in addition to this unpaid fine. In addition, Brussels Environnement confirms that the Régie des Bâtiments has been aware, since the cancellation of the licence, of all operating conditions. Yet, despite a clear vision of the steps to be taken and a financial challenge, the issue seems to me to be at a standstill. Under what circumstances and why was the courthouse's environmental permit cancelled in 2017? Why did the Régie not react at the time of this annulment and did it neglect this file to the point of being fined? Is it a usual practice of the Régie to be condemned in this way? What has justified, since 2017 - for five years - not to apply again for a permit? Is the Régie waiting for a new conviction? What actions are you taking today to regularize this situation as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u60	Member of the European Parliament, Member of the European Parliament, do not hesitate, I will be at a conference this evening on the Brussels courthouse at the Palais des Congrès. If you don't know what to do tonight, you're cordially invited. It will be very nice! Let's start with the work! The scaffolding of Poelaert Square has been strengthened and brought to standards. They must be used by the design office and the engineering office. Scaffolding around the base of the dome is still being examined to see how these can be strengthened. With regard to the lighting of the dome which is the victim of short circuits, work has already been done and several lamps will be replaced. However, renovation work around the dome has not yet begun. We are working to strengthen and stabilize the scaffolding around it. As regards interior renovation, the terms of reference for the feasibility study were submitted to the Finance Inspectorate for its opinion. I signed it a few days ago. This feasibility study concerns a technical study of the building and is distinct from the needs analysis. On the other hand, the Régie des Bâtiments informs me that the problem of the needs of the Justice FPS will be received in the coming months. So he's not yet. With regard to the filing of the exhibits in Brussels, it is expected that the move to the Quai Fernand Demets 7 and 8 in Anderlecht will end in 2022 after renovation. This new location will be temporary since a second permanent move is planned on the site Baron van Hamme in Uccle. The former gendarmerie barracks could be destroyed and replaced by large hangars. This project is currently under consideration. The list of exhibits proposed by the SPF Justice at the end of 2021 includes eight sites, two of which are yet to be defined. In this context, the multi-annual investment plan foresees the start of work after 2026. The planned budget is EUR 40 million. For Herentals, a maximum budget of EUR 5 million is foreseen in 2022. Finally, Ms. Rohonyi, the provisional reception of the secure courtrooms took place in early February and their inauguration was carried out at the end of March 2022. This is the Box in the box project. With regard to the environmental permit, the former permit was cancelled in 2017 by the Environment College for a purely procedural reason, namely that the Brussels administration notified without delay that the permit had been granted. It was therefore implicitly considered to be refused. At the time, the Régie des Bâtiments had consulted a lawyer who advised not to appeal the cancellation of the licence but to submit a new application. In 2019, an application to designate the same study office for the establishment of this environmental permit application was submitted but was refused by the Finance Inspectorate on the grounds of insufficient technical reasons to justify this monopoly. In 2020, a file was published for the designation of a study office responsible for the preparation of documents for the application for an environmental permit. The analysis of the tenders received was delayed in the price verification phase because of their complexity: on the one hand, because of the very different prices of the various design offices and, on the other hand, because a similar file was being processed for another building, care had to be taken to act in a consistent manner in both cases. In the meantime, an award decision has been drafted and the file can soon be assigned to the design office. Today, as long as the situation is not regularized, we can still expect additional fines, which I regret of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u61	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. Contrary to what has been announced in the press, you are very careful about the deadlines for all these renovations. I hope that these deadlines can at last be respected because we cannot continue to see this courthouse dilapidated, both for the staff working on it and for the image of a dilapidated justice that this brings back. I still hear that there is good news, in particular the fact that the famous scaffoldings have been brought to standards. I remain concerned for the interior of the palace, especially for working conditions. You're talking about a feasibility study, but I wonder when this study was launched and when we can hope for the...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u62	I signed last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u63	I didn't hear it. I'm sorry. But when can we hope to know the results? Indeed, it is precisely this study that determines the start of renovation work on the interior of the building. Finally, as far as the preservation of exhibits is concerned, I have heard that a solution has been found to transfer those pieces that literally moist in the courthouse and transfer them to Anderlecht, first, then, to Uccle. This is an excellent thing because it did not allow justice staff to work in good conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u64	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. I did not imagine how well the image I used at the beginning of my question was chosen since, in this case, it is also a set of stones that come in addition to the shoe and hurt the progress of the file. I have a lot of empathy for people who have to manage the follow-up of such cases with the difficulty that this represents. But I would like to remind myself of the need to have, especially when the case is already complicated, good governance and to be attentive to requests for procedures. I hear that we have reacted from 2019 onwards, but that again difficulties have arisen mainly for procedural reasons and perhaps even compliance with the rules, particularly at the level of public procurement. I therefore wish you all the same as I wish the Régie des Bâtiments a good continuation in this matter by inviting you to remain attentive to these rules of good governance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic763x.u65	I think this concludes our question-and-answer session within the allotted time. The agenda has been exhausted. Some items are deferred or transformed into written questions. Mr Secretary of State, thank you for answering the questions of the colleagues present. I wish you a great day.
