ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u1	Madam Minister, in order to stay in the atmosphere, I already took a chance last night on the answer you will give today. Will you keep the deal between the state-owned Bpost and Golden Palace and thus bring gambling closer to the people or will you undo that deal? I bet you won't be able to stop the deal, with the excuse that it's an autonomous public undertaking in which the government can't intervene unless there's a law amendment. I hope I'm wrong. As far as the N-VA Group is concerned, the law on autonomous public undertakings should not be amended because autonomous public undertakings simply do not have to exist. We want these companies to be privatized so that Parliament is no longer involved in any small riot. I refer to the issue with the former CEO of Bpost. Imagine if we were majority shareholders of H&M and suddenly there would be no white t-shirts. Should questions be asked about this in this Parliament? I say this as a boltade, of course, but as far as we are concerned, the government should not sell telecom subscriptions or distribute packets. As far as we are concerned, the idea of state aid has become obsolete. I come to the heart of the debate. bpost has a CSR strategy. That stands for Corporate Social Responsibility. I quote what they say includes 'ethical behaviour','setting the health and safety of our people first'. On whether gambling is ethical behavior, most people will answer 'no'. Gambling leads to a lot of negative social consequences. When weak people, young people and people in a difficult situation are tempted to take a chance, they often find themselves in a spiral where they still find it difficult to get out. The gambling companies say it's legal and they can do it. But very ethical, very beautiful is not. This dossier clearly did not look at the CSR strategy of bpost. How is that possible? How is it possible to put aside one's own principles when it comes to making some extra money? In my video on Twitter I also said it: there is another place in the Chamber. We can also place a slot machine there. Why shouldn't we do that if it's supposed to make money? But of course that is not the strategy. You also said that there is a Corporate Social Charter. This has been signed, along with the seventh management contract, and you are very proud to put it on the market. bpost was imposed those CSR rules and would become a beacon of good governance. Now, if we see how bpost deals with this case, this is certainly a blow to your face and to your government's. I want to know, of course, if you've been able to stop this deal. I hope so. Sometimes it's nice to hope they don't get what they bet on. In plenary, you replied to me that the Governing Board has given a mandate and that this amount is less than EUR 50 million. But even so, I suppose that the board of directors sits with you once every few weeks or months to review the items on the agenda and to see if it should respond to the question of giving a mandate. Then I'm trying to imagine how you're sitting there, wondering who they're gonna sell this to. Then someone says it might be better if you didn't know. That's plausible deniability. You'll know nothing about it, and you won't be able to burn yourself. I'm just curious how that happened. Did the Governing Board effectively tell you what the items on the agenda are? I suppose there are contacts after all. How did the Management Board react to this? You're saying you shouldn't be called in legally. That's correct. But there's no way you're getting away with this. Legally, there has indeed been no mistake, but this shows the lack of respect these people have. Bpost knows that this sale will hurt the custody minister, as will the government that wants to use so hard to fight gambling addictions. If people are going to hurt the main shareholder and continue to do so, then I ask myself the question of confidence. You were supposed to talk to them, and it wouldn't be a friendly conversation. If it turns out that this deal cannot be reversed, I will ask the committee chairman if we can hear the CEO himself and the chairman of the board of directors. It is important to understand how such a thing could have been done. The government really can't afford such things. We're gonna make a fool of ourselves. The whole world is looking at us with surprise. One question I would like answered is what would it cost if the deal was undone? I suppose there are penalty clauses. It may cost 5% or 10%. Madam Minister, every year the government spends EUR 30 million on all kinds of prevention measures, follow-up measures and psychic measures for people who have been victims of gambling. In this respect, I believe it is worth paying EUR 5 million penalty clauses to undo the deal. So we can at least show that we really mean the principle of talk the talk, walk the walk and are willing to cut the deal back, even if it will cost us money. I like to hear what it's all about and hope I guessed wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u2	Mr President, Minister, unlike the previous speaker, we are in favour of strong public services, not privatisation. This discussion shows precisely how important it is to have strong public enterprises. We have already debated this in plenary at the end of January. You said at the time that you were not aware of the deal and that even the board did not decide in this case. I quote: 'The board of directors has given its mandate to the management committee to conclude the sale'. I wonder what they're actually doing there. Did they give the CEO a blank check to sell those newspaper stores to a gambling company? That's kind of hallucinating! The government is a majority shareholder and therefore gives the management carte blanche, that is the conclusion. For the management, this is cash register, cash register, and the only time the government is interested when the dividends are paid out. I found an interesting article in Knack by Katleen Pilleman, the new director of the Flemish Expertise Centre Alcohol and Other Drugs, VAD. The title says: "The government encourages gambling instead of fighting it." She also says, "They have succumbed for the big money." That's what this is about, of course. How can the government allow people to gamble in newspaper shops in hospitals and public institutions? I've seen a broadcast of Taxi Joris, I don't know if you've seen it. It was about someone who was a gambling addict. It was painful to see the consequences for people who are addicted to gambling, how it destroys their families, tosses their families, how they are financially completely destroyed. I have already said that we think this should be reduced. I come to my questions to you, Madam Secretary. Why was the sale of the newspaper store network suddenly so urgent? Why did those stores need to be sold so quickly? Weren't there any other candidates? What's the status of that sales agreement? Did you address those responsible within bpost about this? If so, what was their answer? And what did you decide? Are you going to stop that sale? We hope to have a positive answer to that. How many newsagents are we talking about, exactly? The press release refers to 175 shops. Is that right? What amount and conditions are involved in this transaction? Do you still have faith in the CEO and the board of directors of bpost? How's this cooperation going? Could you also explain what the dividend policy of bpost is? Does the sale of the newspaper shops and bpostbank have any influence on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u3	Mr President, Minister, last year I also asked a question about the sale of Ubiway Retail. I asked Bpost Ubiway Retail to sell. I said that the Press Shops and the Relay stores weren't compatible with the core business anymore. I was right, unfortunately. According to a newspaper article in De Standaard, the CEO of the National Lottery, Mr Haek, advocated stricter gambling rules. The CEO of the National Lottery was also surprised that it is only now that people seem to discover that gambling can be done in the newspaper shops. The National Lottery was also a candidate. I have a few questions about that now. I don't understand why bpost didn't take back to the National Lottery? Madam Secretary, you said you were going to talk to the Bpost Summit. Have you been able to negotiate on that? It was supposed to be 170 newspaper stores. But Ubiway Retail has 220 outlets. What happens to the 50 other outlets? What will happen to the staff? Today 90 to 120 stores already have a license for a gambling terminal. Did you know about that, Madam Secretary? Why didn't the Board of Directors of Bpost sound an alarm? My next question is no longer applicable, but I have another question. However, I do not know whether I will get an answer to that. Two members of Ubiway Retail's management would also become shareholders of the gambling company. Klopt dat?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u4	Minister, the scandal is obvious. Scandals are like trains: one scandal can hide another. This is the case here, a tax scandal is hidden behind the scandal that everyone is talking about today. In plenary, you have fallen behind the autonomy of bpost management so as not to intervene in this matter. In addition to the nature of Golden Palace's activities, another element seems overwhelming. Indeed, it would appear from the Dubai Papers – the leak of thousands of documents related to an international fraud and money laundering network – that Golden Palace companies and the Menegalli family, a shareholder of the Golden Palace group, would be linked to the network in question. Belgium is currently investigating Dubai Papers, while in France, a first conviction has already been handed down in September 2021. There is a clear link here to a fraud and money laundering case involving tax havens. In the TeleSign case, the subsidiary of Proximus being merged with a company registered in the Cayman Islands and then in Delaware, there was already a question of resorting to tax havens. Publicly-owned enterprises should be exemplary and avoid transactions with groups using offshore companies. Minister, are you going to ask your Finance and Justice colleagues that an investigation into the issue of gambling but also the tax issue be conducted on the Ubiway Retail group in order to be able to judge the appropriateness of the bpost transaction? With regard to this sale, you fall behind the law on public enterprises that a minister could not intervene in the operational decisions of bpost. It is with the same argument that your colleagues Gilkinet and Dermagne let SNCB close its stations and Belfius close its branches. Are you considering amending this law to give the government more power to intervene to defend the interests of the population?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u5	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u6	I also have a number of reservations and comments. Mr Freilich, after your remarks, I would like to ask you whether it means for the N-VA that any public undertaking may disappear under the 1991 law as a public undertaking, including SNCB. That is a very far-reaching point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u7	I was talking about the autonomous, listed public companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u8	Good. In any case, Mr Freilich, the 1991 law must continue. Then I'll go to the heart of the matter, the transfer by bpost of daily business. What is particularly striking to me is the way in which this was decided. At some point, the board of directors apparently made the decision to sell Ubiway's newspapers. It has appointed a strategic partner to look for a buyer. That was Bank Degroof Petercam, I understand. This partner actively sought out the world of games of chance and ended up with the National Lottery. I'm surprised the board gave it away. Has the Board of Directors effectively commissioned the sale of the daily trade cases to the best-offering party from any sector? Has there been an active signal from bpost to Bank Degroof Petercam that the gambling sector could be a very interesting partner for the newspaper stores, because that could be the most profitable for bpost? It is also amazing that you were not involved, Madam Secretary. We talked about this two weeks ago, and you indicated it yourself. The autonomy of a public body seems to go a long way in this dossier, especially since the sale is contrary to certain government objectives in terms of gambling and gambling. There is therefore still a need to clarify this issue, possibly with certain consequences for the 1991 law. We will have to take important steps in this respect, apart from the problem of gambling, which is now being brought into the streets of every village. That was already so for a piece and will now see a huge leap forward. How we should put a stop to this is an ongoing debate on, among other things, games of chance. In any case, the sale of newspapers shops and the way in which they have been sold deserve some clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u9	Mr President, Madam Minister, my colleague, Stefaan Van Hecke, spoke 15 days ago about this sale and I share the anger and dismay that he testified in plenary, especially as I know your commitment to giving meaning to a public company through the management contract. You have ensured that services, including cash access, are more accessible and that the digital divide is addressed. You have imposed a social and environmental charter. This is a first, with ambitious goals. All this makes sense. The episode that we are dealing with here therefore disturbs the reading of the situation a little, knowing that, as my colleagues have pointed out, the core business of Golden Palace is not to inform people through access to a quality press but rather to encourage sports betting, casino games and gambling. These are objectives far removed from the government agreement, both on the issue of combating addictions caused by gambling debt and on access to quality information. There's this whole debate about bpost press dealership. It is important for us that every citizen has access to quality information and that there is no two-speed Belgium. The mission of the press stores is also essential in this regard. This core business must be preserved. I would also like to remind you that this is the second time. There was first bpost bank. Debates were held in Parliament on the accessibility of banking services and customer rates. And it's twice that we have the impression that bpost management makes decisions on the back of the government, at least in the back of the government's objectives, which is serious. This is a problem because we intend to work in trust with this public enterprise, which has ambitious and necessary goals for the population. This type of decision-making is problematic. Beyond the debate over the possibility of breaking the sale - you have committed yourself to studying these aspects - it leads to the reflection of what is being done now and for the future. You have set the climate and social stakes in the charter concluded with bpost. The fight against insurance is also a social issue. How do we identify future decisions on such issues? Should we not, when decisions run counter to a government agreement or its philosophy, better control and regulate? What beacons can be set in the current framework without returning to the nostalgia of the 20th century and to a purely state structure? Can the sale be broken? What are the clauses and guarantees in terms of consumer protection? We know that your colleague is working on press stores, but in the current deal, has there ever been any contact on this consumer protection clause? What are the guarantees regarding the use and preservation of access to a quality press in this style of shop? In the end, how can such a gap between government decisions and bpost management decisions be avoided in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u10	Madam Secretary, I shall begin with a positive point. I am very pleased that two weeks after the plenary debate, the broad consensus on the fact that the sale of bpost's newspaper shops to Golden Palace is really not a good idea remains. Everyone undoubtedly agrees that it cannot be the intention that the 170 newspaper shops, especially those in train stations, metro stations and hospitals, should all become small gambling offices. This is completely at odds with the policy we have agreed on, in particular that we want to slow down gambling rather than encouraging it. You said two weeks ago in plenary that, in my view, you were late informed about the deal. You announced that you would have a conversation with management, with the charter Sustainable Entrepreneurship in hand. You announced together with Minister Van Quickenborne that there would be regulatory initiatives to limit gambling even more. Madam Secretary, have you spoken to management? What was your message? What was the answer? What follow-up is the call gonna get? Is there any way out of the transaction somehow, given that on 26 January it was communicated that the deal would be concluded at the end of February? We're now in the middle of February. If not, how will you avoid Ubiway Retail's newspaper stores becoming all gambling offices? Do you see possibilities to at least ensure that newspaper shops in public buildings, the SNCB stations, the metro stations and hospitals can be fully protected from slot machines?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u11	Madam Minister, on 27 January, at the plenary session, I think we were all shocked by the announcement of this sale. I would like to say, Madam Minister, that you are in the first place, certainly, in your role as the appropriate minister. Now time has passed and we probably have an opportunity today to have more background information and answers. We can update the debate a little bit, both on the circumstances and on the follow-up that will be given to this case. The first thing I wanted to say is a follow-up to the debate in plenary, since we have that reference. We had time to reread all the interventions and answers with rested head. Of course, you retain the confidence of the majority, since this question has been asked at least five times. The question was not there. I believe that there has been this shock on the issue of ethics, on which I think we were totally joining. Secondly, there is the question of the 1991 Public Enterprises Act and the law passed under the previous legislature, which has reduced the powers of the appropriate minister that you are today. It was a little schizophrenic to hear that groups that supported the law under the previous legislature... Let's say, the law of Minister De Croo removed the government commissioner. Mr Freilich seemed to ignore this during his speech in plenary session; it was a bit surprising. J'ai relu l'intervention de M. Peter Dedecker dans le débat: "Hope that SNCB will one day become a private company to improve services." It talks about modernization and shows that private companies are much better, more profitable, more efficient, better for customers, cheaper... Perfect! In fact, in the debate, you are told: you are the priority shareholder, you do not know how to do anything. On the other hand, the same group has helped reduce the political responsibility of the minister and the government within the company. For me, there are two elements before the ad hoc questions. On the one hand, the charter. That's very good, a sustainable ethical charter. This, of course, must be part of the attitudes of the management of the post. And then I think there's a job that wasn't done in this case. There was no warning to the people who made this decision. On the other hand, a number of colleagues have asked the substantive question, which I also asked in plenary session: if the law does not give enough power to the majority shareholder you represent - it was repeated a dozen times - and since you can't do anything, then we have to think about a revision of the law. We are involved in this debate. For the rest, I refer to the questions asked by Mr Parent and others since 27 January. What about the circumstances and process? What about the sale price? What will be the consequences, in particular legal consequences? Is it possible to go back? How do you see the rest of this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that we can continue the debate we held in plenary two weeks ago in committee today. I hope that today I will be able to give some answers to your relevant questions. I said in plenary that I would answer the questions in a very factual way: what exactly happened when and how was that communicated to me? Firstly, we find selling Ubiway Retail's stores by bpost to Golden Palace, for which it entered into an agreement, all problematic. This goes against the direction taken by the federal government in the prevention or combating of gambling addiction. In order to implement the coalition agreement, a number of initiatives have been launched or are in the pipeline. I will not repeat it all here today. The fact remains that the sale is at odds with that. I want to repeat that very clearly. Secondly, I do not believe that the exemplary role of a public undertaking has been sufficiently respected. This means that, in my interpretation, the balance between economic sustainability and social sustainability is not in balance here. I cannot repeat that enough. I'll start by presenting the context. The bpost group purchased Ubiway at the end of 2016. Ubiway consists of two entities: Ubiway Distri and Ubiway Retail. The acquisition price of old was justified by Ubiway Distri. Since the redemption, the profit before interest and taxes is positive. bpost had to make only limited investments and synergies with its other activities were numerous. This is what bpost tells me by explaining the reasons for the purchase of Ubiway in 2016. On the other hand, Ubiway Retail (the newspaper stores) has always experienced a difficult financial situation which has been further aggravated by the health crisis. There, substantial investments were needed in the network. However, the bpost development strategy does not consist of investing in retail trade but in logistics. In view of the established economic logic, bpost considered that a sale was appropriate. Bpost didn't think it was a core business. Besides, it was a loss. That's why it was sold. It concerns the sale of shares of Ubiway Retail that currently holds the management of 170 outlets. There may be more shops. The website has 175 outlets, but the official figure is 170 outlets. The staff is simply taken over by the buyer. A large part of the relevant newspaper shops, including in public places, today have slot machines. We need to have a debate on where the revenue of the newspaper shops comes from, apart from this debate. Only a small minority of income is still extracted from newspapers and magazines. That might be worth a debate. Those slot machines were already there in 2016, when bpost acquired ownership of Ubiway Retail. So Bpost didn't put or remove any vending machines there. Golden Palace takes over the stock, the operation of the stores doesn't change. Only the gaming machines of the competitor of Golden Palace that are now in place will be replaced by Golden Palace products. Sales will allow the retail network to make use of the investments needed to ensure their continued existence. Golden Palace does not intend to restrict the current supply of press, i.e. magazines and newspapers, in those shops or diversification in any way. They're just taking over the shareholdership. Everything else stays the way it is. That is part of the action plan. Even though there are many questions about this today, the parameters themselves of the transaction are confidential. Neither I nor bpost can report it, given the company's listing. I know I have to tell you that once in a while in this committee, but that's the way it is. In plenary, I referred to the current legal framework, i.e. the problem of what the law allows and what it does not, in which I, as Minister for Public Enterprises and Minister for Bpost custody, should act. In general, the management of autonomous public enterprises is based on the principle of management autonomy. The framework is laid down in the 1991 Act with an amendment in 2016. We also fall back on the Code of Companies and Associations. This is all the more the case for listed public companies which are also subject to a specific framework, e.g. market abuse legislation. Public service tasks are defined in the management contract concluded with the Belgian State. As a majority shareholder, the majority shareholder has the right to appoint half of the directors. They fulfil the tasks entrusted to them by law and by statute, in accordance with the principles of the Belgian Code of Corporate Governance of 2020. Principle 6 of the Code states that "all members of the Board shall exercise independence of mind and shall always act in the social interest". This provides an answer to two issues at the same time. Those drivers are drivers in the first place, that's actually what it says. Indeed, it must be noted that we are within the limits of the powers of the company and, in particular, of corporate management. I will never repeat enough that, even if it is a management power of the company, I regret this sale, as I regret that neither I nor the government have been informed of it. That did not even happen in the way you suggested, Mr Freilich. As I have already said, this sale runs counter to the government's approach to gambling addiction. Let us now zoom in on the sales process itself, which has taken place in many different steps. It's important to go over the timeline of that. I have already pointed out to you that Ubiway Retail's financial situation has deteriorated, certainly because of the covid crisis. The Management Board unanimously approved management in December 2020 to appoint an investment banker and contact potential buyers. It had therefore to look for bids for Ubiway Retail on the market. At that time Golden Palace was already present in the process. The National Lottery was also interested but did not want to make an offer. In such a process, it is not up to bpost to designate one and not the other, everyone may make an offer. The National Lottery has not made an offer. That is an important fact in the discussion. We now come to September 2021. In the meantime, some time has passed, and I would remind you that a large part of the board has been renewed during that period. A new president has been appointed, just like a new CEO. We are now discussing the period between December 2020 and September 2021. Two binding offers were withheld in September 20121. The names of the final buyer and of another candidate buyer were submitted to the Administrative Board's Audit Committee in November 2021. At that time, the final buyer was not the preferred buyer. That may explain the fact that the drivers present did not respond. That's my information. I suggest asking more questions about this on 13 March 2022, when you will receive the CEO and the Chairman of the Management Board here. I've only heard of them. In any case, the preferred buyer withdrew in the final phase. The management then continued with the remaining candidate buyer, Golden Palace, in accordance with the mandate of the audit committee. The negotiations with that candidate have been concluded. My personal reflection, which you will share in view of the ethical dimension of the sales dossier, is that it would have been appropriate and appropriate to consider a prior exchange of views with the directors. However, it did not take place, it simply carried out what had been agreed, without coming back to it. On 27 December 2021, the sales agreement was signed, subject to a number of suspensive conditions. It is true that the transaction will be concluded on 28 February 2022, as the suspensive conditions and termination obligations are fulfilled. Those data seem relevant to the discussion. Bpost informed me that through the sales process, the principles of a fair procedure and the equality of candidates applied. Let us not forget that such transactions are controlled and subject to strict rules. As I said at the plenary session, neither I nor my cabinet had been informed in advance of this transaction. We, like you, have had to hear the news through the media. After the sale was announced, I requested full transparency from Bpost. In addition, I have also appointed a specialised law firm to make a thorough legal analysis of this sale, with the aim of providing an answer to questions that are relevant to the discussion. This legal analysis had to examine the extent to which sales could be stopped and what their implications would be. The analysis stated that the agreement between Bpost and Golden Palace is legal and binding. That means that if Ubiway or bpost did not comply with the agreement, Golden Palace would have the right to go to court and claim execution in kind. This means that the agreement must be concluded. The possible options are therefore mandatory court proceedings or substitute damages. Such compensation may include all costs incurred by the buyer and any lost profit. The loss of profit cannot be estimated, as we have no idea of the profits to be expected by the buyer. The buyer can make it much more profitable than it is now and then put an amount on it. The same problem arises in the event of a settlement whereby the agreement is terminated after mutual agreement. A deal is a third option. The legal analysis leads to the conclusion that a settlement is risky for the same reasons and has little chance of success. I would like to ignore the side effects that could occur, for example the fact that it is a listed company with minority shareholders as well. We are right to always talk about the importance of the majority shareholder, because we are majority shareholders. However, in a listed company, minority shareholders also have rights, which may be endangered. They can therefore also take action if they consider that their rights are being harmed. The side effects of not implementing the agreement signed on 27 December go beyond the deal in itself. As I announced in plenary, I have spoken with the CEO, Mr Dirk Tirez, and the chairman of the Management Board, Mrs Audrey Hanard, on several occasions, even in the meantime. We had a serious conversation about the sale and the M.O. Bpost itself has an internal code of conduct, including principles relating to commercial relations, conflicts of interest, corruption, money laundering and fair competition. Bpost also has a sustainability charter on economic, social and environmental sustainability. I conclude from this incident that the current rules need to be tightened. The code of conduct and the charter were not sufficient at the moment. I have therefore taken several initiatives. First of all, I instructed the Chairman of the Management Board to look closely and urgently at how to optimise the ethical aspects of such transactions in decision-making and reporting arrangements. This means that we are not only talking about purely legal or purely commercial considerations in this type of transaction, but that we absolutely must take the other dimension with us. How are we gonna do that? I gave that order to the Chairman of the Management Board. We want bpost B Corp certified. As you may know, this is one of the highest standards in terms of corporate social responsibility, environmental, social and ethical sustainability. The B Corp certificate gives a certain guarantee. It is also determined externally. Secondly, I ordered a legal study to investigate a range of slopes. One of the pistes that is being studied is how we can inspire ourselves on the no surprise policy that applies, for example, in New Zealand but also in other countries. Public enterprises are obliged, even if they are autonomous, to involve public authorities on the basis of a number of ethical and other criteria such as conflicts of interest. You understand that we might be conflicting with what's in the law if we introduce this. This brings me to something that we also discussed in plenary. Then perhaps we should amend the law and add this to it. That will be an interesting political debate. It is important, however, that we ensure, within the current legal framework, that if we impose such a no surprise policy and legally anchor it, we do not contradict other rules. You know that there is a strict framework of confidentiality and information for directors and management. It concerns in particular the fundamental principle of equal treatment of shareholders. That is what I was referring to when I talked about the rights of minority shareholders. Then there is also the financial regulation under the supervision of the FSMA. If confidential financial information is shared with one of the shareholders, we must be sure that we do not violate FSMA rules. We're gonna investigate those slopes, and we're gonna have to take them into account. In any case, one of the slopes is the revision of the law on public undertakings of 1991, in order to generate a certain obligation of information to the government as a guardian minister or to anchor a no surprise policy in the law. The content of the measure with potential impact and pros and contras will be examined and weighed, as well as the right legal vehicle. If this requires a legislative initiative, I hope, given the many questions that have been raised today, that you will all support it. I have also asked the board of directors to contact the counterparty as soon as possible in order to agree on additional guarantees and to fix them in the contract. The sales contract has been signed. I asked that an amendment be added to the contract with legally binding guarantees as to what would happen in those newspapers. I am quite happy to say that I have received confirmation that the parties, bpost and Golden Palace, have added an amendment to the sales contract and have agreed on what I will now read to you: "The current newspaper shops of Ubiway Retail will remain newspaper shops, and will not become 'improved' newspaper shops or even worse of the temples of the game." In other words – and the contract amendment literally mentions it – gambling activities are today, and will remain tomorrow, an ancillary activity in Ubiway newspaper stores. Of course, it's important. I am pleased that, after our discussions, bpost has obtained these additional commitments from Golden Palace, and that they are legally binding. Finally, I am not going to say too much about the legal framework on gambling. You know this is work in progress. There are proposals for consideration in the Justice Commission. There is also a royal decree of the Minister of Justice concerning newspaper shops. A very important debate that we will have to have, apart from this transaction, is whether we think it is normal to gamble in newspapershops and under what conditions. Should we not tighten up this framework? I know what my answer would be. The gambling sector is already regulated by different legal bases. And, but you won't be surprised, the buyer in this deal says he'll respect that. However, I agree with you that we need to strengthen that framework. Lack of current legislation has led to the development of gambling activities in newspaper shops. That's the problem. We must deal with this urgently and urgently.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u13	Madam Minister, I hear what you are saying, but my conclusion is that today is a bitter day for all of us. We in this House have all hoped that this deal can be reversed. It's the first time I've been disappointed, or sad, that I've won a bet I made. That's not something people expect. I had hoped, and I put money on it, that things would indeed be different. You also say that on 28 February, which is less than two weeks away, the closing will follow. You also say that from that date, there will be machines from Golden Palace in the Press Shops. My train was delayed this morning and I noticed that there is no slot machine in the Press Shop in Berchem. The question is whether the slot machines will be in all places. You say that a binding commitment has been added to the deal. I am asking myself how that came about, because your own external legal analysis has shown that the contract is legal and binding. If anything is legal and binding, it's done. I do not know what the legal basis is for something that is added and made binding, but the venom is in the details anyway. What does it say? They say they'll definitely sell press titles. What does that mean? Will one have a large room with slot machines, where one can buy a newspaper? How much percentage we are talking about and how many shops where there is not yet a chance to gamble, there will be slot machines, we all have to wait and see. It is and remains a particularly black day for anyone who has to do with gambling addiction. In the last few days, doctors have e-mailed me and perhaps you too, asking whether this is the way the government deals with this problem. You spoke of a possible no surprise policy as a solution to prevent this in the future, but you also said at the outset that we must ensure that we do not conflict with the financial regulation of the FSMA and with the minority shareholders who then have no knowledge. That's hard on all sides. You say that you hope for the support of everyone in Parliament. I could turn it around and say that I hope for your support to ensure that the government is never allowed to be a majority shareholder in a listed company. After all, in a listed company, there will always be those contradictions between ensuring that we generate as much profit as possible and the ethical ones. That will always collide, and that will always cause problems. If one wants to have a blocking minority there, it can, but reduce it to, for example, 20%, so that we do not end up in such a situation. That is our proposal. Then everyone is satisfied, including Europe. We now have all kinds of exceptional measures to ensure that the government is the majority shareholder, both of Proximus and of Bpost. I think my proposal is a much better one. In conclusion, today is a bitter pill to swallow for anyone who cares about gambling addiction. I also note that the commitments in the coalition agreement, which says that we should limit gambling addiction and gambling in general, are unfortunately not honoured here and go even the other way. I can only regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u14	Mr Freilich, the problem is that it is a listed company. For us, bpost must be a public company and not a listed company. This is about money. The director of the VAD says they died for the big money. That's the point. It is good that rules should be made, adjustments made and ethical criteria established, but we need to resolve this by putting Bpost back in full government hands. It is also hallucinating that the Board of Directors has been making bids since 2020. This was continued by the new board of directors. It's unbelievable that you haven't been informed of all that evolution. What do we actually see in these state-owned companies? Over and over again, we see that the government has nothing to say. We had nothing to say at the closure of the Belfius offices. We had nothing to say at the window close. We had nothing to say at the bpostbank that was being privatised. As a government, we now have nothing to say about the fact that the newspaper stores are being sold to gambling companies. Mrs Peleman wrote an article about the risks for young people. Today is a black day, a day when we've heard that the deal is going through effectively and there's nothing left to do about it. This is unacceptable to the PVDA.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u15	Madam Minister, I am pleased to hear that you have taken or will take several steps and that it will hopefully not happen again in the future. It is very unfortunate that a minister should not be allowed to decide what will happen with taxpayers' money. We're not talking about a small amount. It is likely that Golden Palace will emulate the many loss-making or low-profit newspaper stores into gambling palaces. I hope I'm wrong about that. Hopefully the government will make the gambling stricter. That's what you're doing. Hopefully there will also be more control of identity. After all, minors are very easily touched by scratch cards. The well-being of the gamblers must also be given importance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u16	Madam Minister, I thank you for your detailed answer and for not avoiding any aspect of the matter, I believe. I would like to return to two points. First of all, on the code of conduct, the charter. As I said earlier, we can be glad to have adopted this kind of charter. In theory, it's very good, but of course it has to be applied. I believe, however, that between theory and practice there is an enormous amount of awareness, conviction and training, which I know to be carried out so that an alert can be given in this type of situation. Perhaps the most important political point is that of the law, which, as you have said, should be reviewed and amended. Certainly, we agree. It must be adapted to the light of this case. In plenary, following the inquiries, you indicated that this would be an ideological debate on which everyone could position themselves and give their opinion. As far as we are concerned, we were already opposed to the law passed under the previous legislature. We remain in that position. In light of this case, a duty to inform the minister and a no surprise policy would seem to me to be the minimum of what should be put in place. Second, there is a more political or complex issue, that of the Commissioner of Government. If I could ask a sub-question, it would be as follows: could a government commissioner have alerted you and prevented this kind of situation? We are open to continuing this debate. I am not saying that this question must be answered today, but I believe that the answer is an integral part of the conclusions of this dossier. That is what I wanted to say as a member of the Socialist Group. As chairman of the replaced committee, I would like to say that we will have another exchange on Tuesday 15 March, in the morning, on the strategic vision of the company. Meanwhile, we continue to receive our mail, the windows are open and the network is working. At this meeting on 15 March, we will also be able to come back to all the questions relating to this matter, if colleagues so wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u17	Madam Minister, you have not answered at all my specific question about the fiscal scandal of the link with Dubai Papers. You attach my specific question to all the other questions. If it is not to answer it, it should not be reached, unless contacting it was a way of not answering it. I find this lack of an answer problematic. There are so many things to say, but what's crazy is that you invoke the Code of Corporate Governance to legitimize the fact that directors would be obliged to defend the interests of society, not the interests of the shareholder, and of human society. It's crazy enough because what's clear is that the directors who represent private shareholders are defending the interests of private shareholders. When the administrator is the head of the state, all of a sudden, he has to defend the interests of the company. It is really a way of organising your political impotence and it is a real democratic problem to come to this kind of situation!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u18	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive, interesting but also somewhat disappointing answer, because the sale seems to be continuing. I'm asking myself a question anyway. If a gaming company had taken over the newspaper stores in 2016 instead of bpost, would there have been so much fuss? Perhaps, then, not through the sale by a public authority but because of the fact that a company with such activities would appear more actively in the street. We certainly need to think about what needs to be done with the newspapers, with the gambling law and with the legislation on gambling addictions. These are two very important debates that we will have to have over the next few weeks and months. We must certainly also talk about the future of the newspaper shops. I also referred to this in plenary. It's important to have an eye for that. If newspapershops are almost forced to resort to activities such as selling gambling products because of the limited margins on other products, then we must of course also consider this. Madam Minister, what I think is a fundamental problem is that we, representatives of the government, are asked how this is possible in the name of God that we can do this when we cannot do anything about it. We can't rhyme with that, can we? I agree with Mr Freilich. Why should that share still be maintained in these public companies? I am convinced that it can have added value, but I am also convinced that the company should at least be accountable, including to you as a guardian minister. The 1991 Act on Autonomous Public Enterprises is of course what it is, but I cannot imagine that there have been such initiatives over the past few decades without the Minister's knowledge. That remains a fundamental question for me. How the hell did this happen? How can this continue? You refer to the legal investigation that will take place to tighten up the 1991 law. I would have preferred for further legal investigations to be carried out to cancel the sale, if necessary with damages. I think this is so fundamental that every track needs to be properly examined. I understand that this has happened, but I'd like to take a closer look at this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u19	Madam Minister, thank you for your different answers. I don't see how it's a black day, at least not about hypocrisy. Indeed, when, in the same speech, it is pointed out that it is regrettable to sell to gambling agencies and that at the same time, we are showing ourselves the champions of deregulation and private selling, I think hypocrisy has again scored points today. In addition, Madam Minister, I thank you for your detailed answers. As far as the past is concerned, it is important to have the different dates. There is the "original sin", i.e. the delegation of powers in December 2020. It's probably a mistake, in any case a posteriori. One can wonder about this act which ultimately deprived the ability to be alerted faster on this file. On the other hand, with regard to the action that has been taken, you have mentioned different approaches to management. Thank you. What I think is important to stress, but which also requires more technical explanation and what this represents, are the amendments that you have managed to impose in relation to the sales contract in particular to protect the activities, including the sale of press. It would be important to have more details. In any case, there was immediate action. For the future, I agree with my colleagues on the need to focus the debate on the 1991 Act. I welcome the fact that you volunteer to draw inspiration from foreign models, including the no surprise policy. You referred to the New Zealand example. You have commissioned the Chair of the Board of Directors to explore other avenues. I believe that this is necessary because self-regulation and the current rules actually confront us with uncomfortable, ethically unacceptable situations and we need to see how to get out of this situation in a proactive manner. We are not in favour of returning to the old days, but, in any case, of having stronger beacons for the years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u20	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. I must say that I have the greatest difficulty in accepting that, as a majority shareholder, we cannot do anything about this sale. I find it astonishing that you have been left in the dark for as much as a month. A month has passed between signing the sales agreement and the press release. And that in such a sensitive matter, which so clearly violates the charter for corporate social responsibility. That a management doesn't bother at such a time for a month, doesn't have the need, or even doesn't even think about informing you, the custody minister. In all honesty, that shockes my confidence in that management. We shall put that at the mercy of Mr Tirez when he comes along. You may expect support from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Any initiative that might lead to this not repeating itself, for example that of the No Surprise Policy, I think is a good slope. The amendment to the sales agreement is a brave attempt, Madam Minister, but it is totally inadequate. This does not guarantee that the number of slot machines in these newspapers shops will not increase. "It must not be a main activity." What does that mean? One vending machine, two vending machines, three vending machines? In my view, it remains perfectly possible for slot machines to be added in our stations and in our hospitals or metro stations, despite this amendment. The conclusion is therefore that the legal framework needs to be adapted. That debate must indeed be held, Madam Secretary. You're absolutely right about that. As far as Forward is concerned, the red line is very clear: we do not want slot machines in public buildings such as stations and hospitals. Not a single slot machine! Mr Freilich, I would never have bet that you would succeed in speaking so flagrantly against yourself in two times two minutes. On the one hand, you are making a big mistake about this transaction and, on the other hand, you are calling for us to privatise the whole thing. Your solution is to put aside precisely the ethical principles that we want to enforce better in the future. Well, that's not Vooruit's solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u21	Madam Minister, for our group too, sales to Golden Palace are problematic. As you say, that sale is at odds with the necessary approach to the social problem of gambling addiction. You stress once again that bpost has an exemplary function and that you reject this sale. It is important to know the context of this sale. You have just outlined that context in detail. It is somewhat reassuring that Golden Palace does not intend to limit the current supply of press articles and that agreements have been made on this. It will therefore remain mainly newspaper shops and no gambling palaces, for which we rightly feared after the announcement of the sale. In addition, there are already slots in these newspaper stores. This indicates that it is important to adapt the law on gambling products. That is the essence of the matter. Your answer is also reassuring because it is not the intention to completely change the content of the newspaper shops. Of course, we must be vigilant and concerned, because it is clear that Golden Palace will want to offer its gambling products as much as possible. After all, it's his core business. We need to curb gambling by also restricting supply. As Minister for Public Enterprises, you have acted quite correctly within a legal framework to which you must adhere. The sale was a management authority and certainly raises questions. I propose that Members ask all their questions when the CEO and the chairman of the Management Board come to the committee in March. How did the sales deal come about? What considerations have been taken into account in this regard? Why wasn't the board informed? You took immediate action after the sale was announced. You've appointed a law firm to thoroughly analyse the sale. Unfortunately, the conclusion is that sales cannot be reduced at the moment. It goes without saying that we will give you our full support for further initiatives, to which you referred in your reply. The slope of a No Surprise Policy is indeed interesting. If it comes to an amendment of the law on public undertakings, we will support you and I am counting on the support of all the Members present. At the heart of the matter is the need for a better legal framework for gambling. There are initiatives within the government and in Parliament to restrict gambling and to impose stricter rules on newspaper shops. Gambling addiction is a serious social problem. Green has always taken the lead in both prevention and protection of gambling addicts. However, let us not be hypocritical either. It is not because of the sale of bpost that suddenly there will be anywhere to gamble. Gambling products are already ubiquitous, even in newspaper shops. Advertising of gambling is also ubiquitous: on television, on the Internet, in sport and so on. Politics must do something about that. That is the task for us, Members of Parliament. I would therefore like to call on all colleagues to work together on this and to support all the initiatives taken here in the Chamber to curb gambling.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u22	Minister, I think we have had an in-depth debate on the matter. The usual formula is "Het incident is gesloten. The incident is closed." I'm not sure the incident is really over. But in any case, I shall close the topical and urgent debate on this issue. I think we will have an opportunity to talk about it again and to come back to it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u23	Madam Minister, the bpost tax on packages that weigh too little in relation to the size, which we discussed earlier in committee, should prevent webshops from sending goods in far too large packages and thus sending air. But the tax shoots its target. Some senders, such as toy stores, now put stones in their too light packages to weigh up their packages and avoid a fine. This is the case for a stuffed animal and a school bag, the packaging of which is quite large. The system made a lot of mouths fall open. It scared you, too. The density tax, which is intended to prevent air from being transported, literally ends up on the back of the postmen, who have to deliver the unnecessarily heavy packages. You announced that bpost would evaluate the system and adapt it where necessary. Has the evaluation of the density tax already been completed? What is the conclusion of bpost? Does bpost foresee an adjustment of the density tax? If so, how will it be adapted and by when will it enter into force? Or bpost completely abolishes the tax, as has already been done at PostNL.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u24	The density premium is part of the standard prices and contract terms of bpost for contractual customers, not for individuals. The prices are based on the weight and there is a supplement for the volume, so that web stores would use as little boxes as possible. It's more efficient. For example, more packages can be stacked in a truck. That is also more sustainable. If there's too much air in a package, bpost raises a density supplement. It is small amounts per package, but well, with a large number of packages, that amount rises. The surcharge is contained in the contract of bpost with its customers, which includes commercial and confidential information. According to bpost, it costs more to work hours and equipment to weigh up a package to avoid a density supplement than simply pay the small surcharge. Structureally smaller boxes will help, of course. Bpost is also regularly contacted by customers who want to improve their logistics approach and reduce the volume of air in their packages. The measure therefore encourages customers to think about it. Any tariff measure taken by bpost is the subject of ex ante analysis and ex post evaluation. Now, the comparison of the fourth quarter of 2020 with the corresponding quarter of 2021 shows that at one year time 48% of customers and businesses have sent fewer packages with density surcharge and thus fewer packages with too much air. A decrease of 48 % is a very high figure. Thus, Bpost now transports fewer packages of too low density than the company would without the surcharge in total, both in absolute numbers and relative to the total number of packages. Bpost, apart from the cases that have indeed come to the media, has no knowledge of customers who deliberately weigh the package in order to avoid the surcharge. The explanation is therefore the adaptation of behavior and packaging. The supplement reaches, according to what bpost tells me, its goal, namely a more efficient and sustainable delivery. So Bpost wishes to keep him. The postal company is aware that certain items should be subject to specific precautionary measures. For example, packages smaller than a shoebox, or very large suits, such as a desk chair, are not covered by the measure. There are therefore also packages that are excluded from the measure. Bpost concludes that the measure helps and therefore keeps it in the hope of seeing the number of packages with too much air fall even more in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u25	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. When I hear the figures, it is indeed clear that the density tax has advantages. In any case, I welcome the in-depth evaluation. The story seemed rather absurd, but the figures prove the opposite.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u26	Madam Minister, a pilot project in 2016 allowed passengers in two first-class cars on the Eupen-Ostend line to use Wi-Fi free of charge. Despite the positive evaluation of the project, SNCB decided no longer to invest in free Wi-Fi on the train due to too expensive. In addition, the telecom operators would have fully covered the entire rail network by 2G, 3G and 4G by the end of 2018. From figures from the BIPT, which were published today, we learn that this is not yet the case. The worse coverage on our mobile network is mainly located in less densely populated areas, where the train often runs. Many train passengers also experience this every day. In addition, the signal is difficult to get into the fast moving train sets, which form a Faraday cage. The draft Royal Decree on the 700 MHz band included an article requiring an effort commitment to each 700 MHz operator to cover the railways. However, the commitment applies only to the fourteen major railway lines, not to the rural lines, where there are often large blind spots. In the past, BIPT has already set the ambition to take measurements in the conditions in which consumers use their devices. It also examines the consumer's experience of using his smartphone outside his vehicle, in his home and along the roads. In order to complete the investigation, BIPT carried out a similar study on the railways using probes on the trains in 2021. What are the results of the research on the railway lines? On which railway lines was the investigation conducted? What concrete measures are you taking to ensure sufficient signal along the rail network? Are additional measures or efforts needed for the 14 railway lines in the Royal Decree? Are there any tests planned along the railway lines or on the trains? If so, where and when will the tests be carried out and the results published?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u27	Ms Verhaert, the results of the BIPT study "Results of the driving and train test campaign 2021'. can be consulted on the BIPT website. The study was carried out on the main IC train lines, from which you can also find the map in the report. The conclusion is that our mobile networks are actually achieving fairly good results on the tested train lines. The call tests show that the user can start a connection on average in 98.2 % of the cases as a virtually continuous telephone call. Everything depends, of course, on the duration and the exact location of the conversation. Nevertheless, 98.2 % seems to be a high figure. Of course, it does not mean that the signal cannot be interrupted on certain lines or places. As for the data tests on trains, we note an average download rate of 55 megabits per second and an upload rate of 17 megabits per second on the mobile networks on the train, which is somewhat lower than the measurements on the Belgian roads. In order to increase connectivity in trains, Article 12 of the relevant KB linked the coverage obligation to the granting of the 5G licences for the 15 main lines. From 2 years after the licence has been granted, telecom operators must provide a coverage of 98 % around 15 lines, at a minimum flow rate of 10 megabits per second outside the train. This coverage requirement is at the top of the mandatory population coverage of 99,8%, which will cover a large number of railways in any case. The first train test was a pilot project. The BIPT is now examining its extension so that testing can be carried out in the future against the coverage obligations set out in the Royal Decree. Tests usually take place in the fourth quarter of the year and results are published shortly thereafter. You called the train a Faraday cage. SNCB informs me that it takes account of the connectivity in the choice of equipment for new trains and that it can also bring the signal wave to the train traveller in the case of repairs by using a special type of window.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u28	Madam Minister, there is indeed a pilot project with windows, which seeks to improve the connection on trains. During my preparation I saw that the full study after I submitted my question was published on the BIPT website. Coincidence or not, I'll leave that in the middle. When I look at the results of the research and hear your answer, it is beneficial for the quality on the train. But that's kind of contrary to my daily experience. I am not surprised at the way in which the measurements were carried out, especially the main lines in densely populated areas. If we also measure on lines in more rural areas, the results will be much less rosy. I therefore call on you to measure these lines in the next study. After all, there is still a lot of work to be done to give a strong mobile signal to all rail passengers, including those from rural areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u29	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, it is up to me from my postman that the bpost office located in the buildings of Infrabel at Charleroi station will move at the end of next year. The closure of offices in Jumet, Courcelles and Châtelet was also announced with the aim of bringing the agents together in a new building along the A54 in Jumet. Several agents used to go to Charleroi via the TEC bus lines, and their subscription was provided by bpost. Postal officers are concerned about where they will be moved, when and under what conditions this move will take place. Can you tell us more about the situation? Will their new offices in Jumet still be accessible via sufficient bus lines? Will there also be links between the old and the new site? Will there be sufficient parking spaces?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u30	Mr d'Amico, thank you for your question. In fact, bpost has to leave the premises of the former sorting centre near the Charleroi station, the lease that allowed him to occupy this building having come to an end. On the other hand, maintaining a logistical activity in this renewed neighbourhood would not have been logical. For 2024, bpost decided to group the factors currently located in the former sorting centre, but also those located in Jumet, where the office is no longer suitable for logistics activities. For the sake of efficiency, the company also decided to add to the two former offices the factors currently housed in Gilly, both because this building is too small, but also in order to bring together on one site all the distributor factors that serve the City of Charleroi. The new building that meets the highest energy standards will be installed in Gosselies. Its modern architecture will bring it added value at the entrance to Charleroi. The number of parking spaces will be quite sufficient and has been discussed with the urban planning services of the Walloon Region. Mobility in public transport is part of the overall reflection integrated into the project. In addition, the new building will be located in an activity area served by TECs. If necessary, bpost will consult with the management of TEC-Charleroi to examine how this service can be improved.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u31	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. Nevertheless, I did not understand when this would be effective. I understood that the lease with Infrabel would end at the end of 2023. Will the agents, in this case, be assigned to their new premises as of 1 January 2024?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u32	According to my information, it is planned for the year 2024, but I do not know if it is from 1 January. I can't tell you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u33	So bpost should pay compensation to Infrabel, since the contract ends on December 31, 2023?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u34	I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u35	All right, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u36	Mr President, I can inquire, because I do not have the information to date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u37	I thank you and will therefore consider that the incident is temporarily closed, subject to further information.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u38	Mr. Speaker, Madam Minister, you were questioned in the plenary of the House on December 2, 2021, about the fact that Proximus was considering an exchange for its subsidiary TeleSign through a merger with North Atlantic Acquisition Corporation (NAAC), a PSPC, that is, an empty shell used to raise funds, registered in the Cayman Islands, a well-known tax haven. At the time, you said, "It's out of the question that Proximus is planning a merger with a PSPC located in a tax haven." However, in a press release dated 16 December 2021, Proximus states that "NAAC agreed to relocate its headquarters to the United States (Delaware) as part of the agreement". So, NAAC agrees to leave a notorious tax haven, the Cayman Islands, to settle in another notorious tax haven, Delaware. You said, however, that it was, I repeat, "out of the question that Proximus is going to organise a merger with a PSPC located in a tax haven". NGOs such as Oxfam or Tax Justice Network rank Delaware among the most formidable tax havens in the world because it is used by a very large number of multinationals and does not adhere to the minimum criteria of transparency and information exchange to which European states are subject. On 21 October 2021 the European Parliament adopted a resolution which "condemns the fact that certain American states, such as South Dakota, Alaska, Wyoming, Delaware and Nevada, have become hubs of financial secrecy and corporate secrecy, as the Pandora Papers have revealed, in addition to being renowned tax havens". Sara Matthieu, the Member of Parliament who replaced you in the European Parliament, voted in favour of this resolution. Minister, do you accept this merger with a PSPC located in a tax haven, Delaware, when you said it was out of the question? Do you intend to introduce a general ban on transactions with companies registered in tax havens for public-owned enterprises?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u39	Mr President, Mr Van Hees, I shall take note of your question. I asked Proximus about this and I also inquired about your question. I would like to make the following clarifications which I hope will respond to your concerns. First of all, I have to tell you that the TeleSign entity has been under a Delaware-based holding company since 2012, before the acquisition by the Proximus group in 2017. The transaction as part of the ongoing process, to bring TeleSign into the stock exchange, will not change the configuration of this holding. This entity will be subject to the normal U.S. federal corporate tax system at a nominal tax rate of 21%. This is a rate above the minimum threshold of 15% which applies to Belgium's permanently taxed income deduction, and the 15% proposed by the European Union as a result of the work of Pillar Two of the OECD. You say Delaware is a tax haven like the Cayman Islands. I told Parliament that there is no question of making a deal with a PSPC in the Cayman Islands. In this regard, the headquarters was then changed to the Delaware where TeleSign's headquarters are already located. Belgium has concluded a double taxation preventive convention with the United States, which provides for an exchange of information. Delaware is a jurisdiction, it is true, in favour of businesses but on the tax side, this jurisdiction is not considered a tax haven in comparison with the Cayman Islands as it was previously, which has been corrected, as you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u40	Minister, are you serious about your answer? You tell me, finally, that Delaware is a less serious tax haven than the Cayman Islands, and so it's okay. No, it's not right! I remind you that you said in plenary, not that it was out of the question that it was in the Cayman Islands, but that, "It is out of the question that Proximus should go to organise a merger with a PSPC located in a tax haven." And now you're telling me that Delaware is not a tax haven. But then, what did your deputy in the European Parliament vote in the vote on this resolution condemning all these American states – especially Delaware, which is the worst of them? This text contains these words: "in addition to being renowned tax havens." Your deputy in the European Parliament therefore votes a resolution that says Delaware is a tax haven, and you come here to tell me that no, it is not a tax haven. Excuse me, we need a little consistency! I just think you're subjecting yourself to a decision that was made by Proximus management, as in the previous file on bpost and Golden Palace. And here you go, you finally accept that we go through tax havens! I also asked you a question for the future, so that we would prohibit public companies from resorting to tax havens. You didn't answer that either. I find your attitude and lightness rather disturbing!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u41	Mr President, Minister, there are still problems with the accessibility of bpost's customer service. However, Bpost has already taken several initiatives, which I find positive, but apparently the customer service remains difficult to reach. 5.506 inadmissible questions have been submitted to the Ombudsman, in particular because of the inaccessibility of bpost's customer service. Customers contact the postal service directly before contacting the bpost customer service, indicating problems. Madam Secretary, how will bpost improve the accessibility of customer service? Will bpost consult with the ombudsdienst to make the necessary adjustments to the customer service? Is the web site also modified, as it is difficult to find the right section in the selection menus? Are people being retrained to answer the phone so they don't have to say a standard sentence to calling customers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u42	Mrs Dewulf, the efforts made and planned by bpost to increase the accessibility of customer service, as in any other company, want to contribute to the central objective of a very good service to each customer with questions. For this purpose, the customer can use several channels of communication of his/her own choice. From an economic logic, in which reputation and customer satisfaction are very important, and for ecological reasons, an autonomous public body as a bpost should be strongly motivated to continuously build an accessible and qualitative customer service. That seems obvious to me. Last year, in the Committee on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions, I explained the efforts made in response to questions from you and Mr Van den Bergh. I referred to the annual report of the ombudsdienst 2020, the document to which you referred today, and I also mentioned the opinion of the BIPT of 25 January 2022, in particular point 76. More specifically, in response to the questions at the time, I addressed the improved telephone accessibility, the new design of the website that aims to improve performance and customer satisfaction, the possibilities for customers of written contact via online forms and availability via social media channels, which have information as their main objective but are often also used for complaints and communication with customers. In July 2021, bpost also added a live chat channel to the various existing channels, specifically for packet-related questions. The contact center answered 82.6 % of calls within 60 seconds in 2021. The explosive increase in the number of packages being shipped does not prevent customers from being helped quickly and well. Finally, I would like to inform you that bpost frequently consults with the ombuds service on the actions to increase customer satisfaction, including the training initiatives that have been set up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u43	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u44	Madam Minister, on Monday 14 February, Bpost launched a pilot project to return packages to the postman. That is a very nice project, but that system used to exist. They've stopped doing that before to relieve the mailmen. It would be a trial period of about two months. The package must be fully franked and labeled. Madam Secretary, I have a lot of questions about that. Can the people who are less mobile put a ticket "Please, postman" in front of the window, or somewhere else, so the mailman can stop? Or does this not apply? Can the postmen who work on Sundays bring packages? I can't find anything about that. Where do the packages that come back from the customers go? Will those packages be taken to Retail or Collect? How many packages that have been franked by the customers can a mailman take back on his rounds? Is there a limit on that? Are the packages that are lost insured? Are the postmen paid overtime because they have more work and come back outside their working hours? Will there be enough room in their van? I mean, usually they start with a full van. If they're already getting a package on their first delivery, where are they gonna put that package? Or will they get a bigger van? What if they get a very big and heavy suit at the start of their rounds? Where are they supposed to put that suit? Or are they going to return when they have more room?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u45	I come immediately to my questions, Madam Secretary. Where did this idea come from? Are consumers asking parties? Are there competitors in the parcel sector that are already applying this? Are the social partners involved in this pilot project? Have they been consulted? Have any comments been made on their part? How much time will the employees of bpost get to receive and treat such a package? How many packages can the consumer give at a time? How heavy can these packages weigh? Will that be able to be checked? Will the mailman also be able to refuse packages if he does not have enough time, or simply has no room for them? What does the consumer have to do before he can give a package with bpost? What if the consumer has missed the employee of bpost? Will he then be allowed to offer his package again the next day?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u46	There were actually three combined questions on this, but as Mr Freilich has left, his question lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u47	Mr President, this is the pilot project of bpost where private individuals can give their own packages with the postman. You know that bpost has the ambition to transform into a service provider in the field of e-commerce and is therefore engaged in innovation and product development, where the customer is central. This pilot project is an illustration of this. It runs from 14 February to 15 April, in several places in the three parts of the country. The service in question has already been successfully offered abroad. After a personal survey of Belgian consumers, bpost found that there was interest in Belgium. So the initiative is actually from the consumer. Many products are sent back. It may be said that this is a problem of e-commerce, for all kinds of logistical reasons, but even more so for ecological and sustainability reasons. However, it is still happening for the time being, and we will have to think of other things to reduce it. If there is to be a return, it is interesting for the consumer, but also for the webshop, if this goes fast and smoothly. The package must have a valid shipping or return label and be ready to deliver to the postman when it rings. If the consumer is not at home at the time of delivery, he will still have to go to a delivery point of bpost. He can also give it the next few days if the mailman comes by again for the delivery of another package. Mrs Dewulf, the AUB Postbode service, especially for persons with reduced mobility, is not affected by the pilot project. Of course, people can still use the AUB Postbode service to deliver a letter or package to their mailman. However, please Postman cannot be used to return a package. A package has to be delivered to deliver a package. The pilot project allows the delivery of parcels to the postman under a certain number of conditions. If the mailman is on foot or by bike, it can't be. He must also have enough room in his vehicle. If there is no place in the van to give the package, for example at the beginning of the round, the mailman can refuse the package. This is also stated in the communication to the consumer. bpost will not use larger vans during the pilot project. That's not the point. The number of packages that can be delivered is also limited to a maximum of two per person. So one cannot receive one package and give it eight at the same time. Everything is of course calculated according to the volumes of the vans. The postman may refuse the package if it does not meet the conditions of francation and labelling. The packages are transported to the distribution centre without stopping in the retail network. Saturday, Sunday and evening deliveries are also part of the pilot project. The pilot project will examine the impact on the workload of postmen and how best to plan this service in the organisation. The social partners were informed on 22 December 2021 about the timetable, the regions and the organisation of the project, Ms Vindevoghel. On 15 February 2022, so yesterday, there was a new alignment with them. However, I do not have any news yet. The pilot project will measure and objectify the impact on the workload of the postman. Postmen are supposed to bring all packages that can be taken safely. The same rules apply as at the issuing points. For example, a package may weigh up to 30 kg. Bpost's general terms and conditions for delivery of packages apply, including the warranty rules, according to the customer's choice. During the pro project, customers will be asked to enter the barcode number of the package in the My bpost app, or to write it down, in order to follow it through track & trace. In this way, the customer can see when the package is scanned by the mailman when it issues it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u48	Madam Secretary, I hope the project really works. After all, it is a beautiful project. It gives bpost job security. I'll keep following it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u49	Madam Minister, I have another suggestion to make in connection with our discussion earlier on the newspaper shops. Perhaps it is also an idea to upgrade the newspaper stores and send packages there, which people can then come and pick up or leave behind. That is perhaps another suggestion in the context of our entire discussion of the newspaper shops, which could thus have a different function than gambling machines.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u50	Madam Minister, the inspection, especially during the end of the year, has detected infringements and abuses in several courier companies. At that time, you announced an amendment to the Postal Act. You would impose standards on parcel suppliers with regard to the number of people they should employ with a fixed contract. In addition, you also spoke of an additional tax on fast deliveries, as a solution to the poor conditions in which these couriers drive around the clock, without a decent income or social protection. What's the progress on this bill? What concrete measures have been put in place to prevent the poor working conditions and the exploitation of the packers? What is the timing and what are the next steps? You also said that there would be consultation with the sector. Has that happened by now? Who was involved? What are the results? Is there any coordination or consultation with the Minister for Labour? This is partly linked to the regulation of bogus self-employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u51	Mrs Vanrobaeys, your question is about how we can make the parcel delivery burden mile more sustainable in the e-commerce story, both socially and ecologically. As far as the social dimension is concerned, we are already a little further ahead. Together with lawyers and the BIPT, we are finalizing a bill to see how we can create a level social playing field within the parcel delivery. The draft bill has already been delivered to government partners and will be discussed at government level in the coming days. The public consultation will follow immediately thereafter. In this respect, therefore, we are quite advanced and I hope that we will be able to come to Parliament soon. It is obvious that we are doing this together with Minister Dermagne's cabinet, as you asked. The initiatives are complementary. I work through the Postal Act because it gives me a leverage with regard to the articles of association of parcel suppliers. The framework within which Minister Dermagne, who is also responsible for the inspection services, can work, of course, also covers other sectors, not only the parcel services. As you know, Minister Dermagne said in plenary that he supports our proposal. We work very well together. With regard to sustainability, I must also correct you. You said that I announced that I wanted to introduce an additional tax on fast deliveries. That's not true. That was perhaps suggested by journalists. I have said that it seems logical to me that there should be a price difference between the most sustainable way of delivery and a less sustainable way of delivery, both socially and ecologically. I am thinking, for example, of the package that has to be at your door at 8 a.m. tomorrow morning because you urgently need that pair of shoes. I'm not going to charge a tax on those urgent deliveries. I think it's up to the market to organize, but it's up to me to internalize the sustainability effects. I am referring here to the imposition of standards in the social field, with which we are already well advanced, and to the ecological aspect, in order to make e-commerce more sustainable. This may then lead to examples where the most sustainable delivery will be cheaper than the extra fast delivery. It is therefore not the case that the government wants to levy a tax on fast deliveries. We are creating the model and the framework and that will lead to what the sector itself does with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u52	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. Sustainability, for me, is also about both environmental and social aspects. I find the abuses there hallucinating. There was already a trial before the labour court, but there were still infringements, to the extent that during the end of the year the auditor had to seal depots. In any case, I look forward to your draft law, so that the level playing field can be restored at social level. I think there is an urgent need for that. In some cases, subcontractors even work with minors. We must put an end to this exploitation. I hope that we will be able to move towards sustainable e-commerce and parcel delivery. I did not hear whether this 80% was included in the bill. In any case, I look forward to the concrete texts of the draft law which will soon be adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u53	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Freilich's 55025369C and 55025373C are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u54	Mr President, Minister, we have all heard the statements of Mr Magnette, a bit of the government's mother-in-law. He wants to get off the e-commerce. I thought that was a very harsh statement, because everyone knows that there are a lot of people working in that sector. The PVDA is not against e-commerce, but we think it is very important that people in this sector can work in good working conditions. Less than a week later, the government concluded a work deal in which exactly the opposite of what Magnette said is happening: the government is actually promoting e-commerce and wants to organise competition further. To be honest, I find that rather hypocritical and difficult. The trade unions are left out of play, night work is relaxed and less paid and the four-day week is introduced, not with a reduction in working hours, but with the same number of hours worked on four days. I know the courier sector very well, because as a deléguée and when I worked for the ACV, I followed the sector. Those are tough jobs, there are a lot of people working with temporary contracts, with interim contracts. Can you imagine that these people can stand up to an employer who tells them how to work? They are not in a position where they can choose, hence some questions. How do you feel about Paul Magnette's statements? Did you talk to him about that? How do you feel about night work in the e-commerce sector? Does e-commerce have a future in Belgium? What role should bpost play in the sector and what does the employment deal mean in concrete terms for bpost staff? Where are you on the new postal bill? Will the workers in the package sector be given better protection?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u55	Mr Minister, Mrs Vindevoghel, I am particularly concerned about this issue. I would like to share my views on this with you. I also consider Mr Magnette's statement to be a utopian exercise rather than a real proposal. Nor has it been on the table in the discussions on the labour market measures we have taken. The problem is not e-commerce, but the fact that it has been deregulated for years. We need to find a solution to that. We probably will not fully agree on where we will land, but we agree that we need to have a framework that provides clarity and protection for people. According to the plans approved by the government, it will be easier to work in e-commerce until midnight, but without this being considered night work, on the right social conditions. It's been agreed that the consent of a union is sufficient. If all trade unions have to give their consent, every union has a right of veto. We can't agree on that. It is important, however, that there is social dialogue and that the agreement of at least one union is maintained. It's about changing the employment regulations. Bpost already applies this to Sunday work, for example, subject to a trade union agreement, provided that conditions are acceptable to people and so on. What the government has now decided on the labour market and a piece of e-commerce still has to go to the social partners for advice. After that, it'll come back to us. The input of the social partners will therefore also be requested. For five years there has been a debate on evening work in e-commerce. The more flexible regime of 2017 that will now be implemented has so far proved to be dead letter. If the conditions are right, this will be a start for a disadvantaged sector, where jobs have been lost abroad. The balance between the jobs must be achieved as well as possible. We must also ensure that the conditions are right. That's the balance we need to find. The return of e-commerce to our country is also important for local traders. So it's not just about the people who distribute the packages, because traders now also see sales moving to foreign webshops. We must ensure the system we call omnicommerce, whereby our traders can market products both online and offline. With regard specifically to bpost, you know that digitisation brings challenges, but also offers opportunities. Bpost is in a story of a declining volume of letter mail and wants to develop a strategy to secure its future economically sustainable in the e-commerce sector in the longer term. Bpost aims to become a leading logistics player in e-commerce in our country, but also in Europe and North America. One of the pillars of bpost's strategy in innovation development is just helping Belgian SMEs embrace e-commerce and expand their online business in the framework of the omnicommerce model. I refer to the fullfilment center Active Ants, of which you already know the existence, and also the Each Case Online initiative, to which we may need to give even more visibility. I have just said to Mrs Vanrobaeys that there must be better working conditions and a level playing field for me regarding changes to the postal law. So it must end with subcontracting where bogus self-employed people are employed with bad contracts. For the courier companies, I can, as I said, enforce that through the postal law, which we will amend. We will require companies operating in Belgium to have mainly permanent employees. One hundred percent of permanent employees will not be feasible, because a certain degree of flexibility is needed, for example at peak moments such as the end of the year. Those adjustments are already being discussed within the government. We will organise a public consultation, the sector will of course be heard. I also hope that this legislative amendment will be presented very quickly in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic700x.u56	Madam Minister, we hope it will indeed be that 80%. The postal bill is very important. The matter needs to be settled. Too many people work in very poor working conditions. It is a matter of false self-employment, about which we have heard and seen many stories. We have a lot of comments on the labor deal. Firstly, the trade unions are partly excluded. As a deléguée, I have often experienced that the discussion of hourly arrangements was a question of balance of power. Three trade unions are more strongly opposed to an employer to ensure good hourly arrangements and a good combination of work and family life. It is therefore not a good thing that the trade unions are partly sidelined. In many SMEs, there is no trade union and employees are left to their own devices. Four days full-time working in a courier company, 10 hours a night instead of 8 hours, is unfeasible for many. We are in favour of a reduction in working hours and not for days of 9 or 10 hours. That's a back door for us.
