ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 June 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 June 2022, you received an amended agenda for today's meeting. Is there any comment on that? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u3	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the negotiations with ENGIE are blocked and ENGIE has once again pushed you through the facts with a letter from Paris. This brings that green dream of one of your coalition partners closer. He'd like the negotiations to fail. What the rest of the government thinks about this is of no importance and that 81 percent of the population supporting it is obviously not important either. We need the power from those nuclear power plants, don't we? We all agree that we do not want to become more dependent on foreign natural gas. That is what almost all the majority parties have said. However, Minister Van der Straeten maintains her position and states that she cannot change anything about it. It has therefore concluded the agreement on the extension with long teeth, whereas initially it has always led to a postponement. In 2020 and 2021, you were not allowed to negotiate. Now that you do so in 2022, you will no longer be given a negotiating margin. Then the question arises as to what you will do. Will you put the heels in the sand and let ENGIE know that the negotiations will not continue and that all nuclear power stations will still be closed? Who's gonna be the victim of that? Those are the citizens and companies that are already paying sky-high invoices. Those same people will become more dependent on that foreign gas in the future. That's not supposed to happen, is it? On the other hand, you could say that you will negotiate without those green chains on your arms and legs, so that you can ensure that the negotiations are smooth. In that case, however, you will have to go back to your government partners and take a stand. What will you do, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u4	Mr Prime Minister, you are again in the panade, in the moose, with regard to the future of our energy policy in Belgium, and especially with regard to the extension of these two nuclear reactors, Tihange 3 and Doel 4. We learned that on Tuesday you received a letter from the energy engineer ENGIE, a letter asking you, proposing - we don't know very well - or demanding, perhaps, that the government co-finance the extension of these two reactors and the cost of waste treatment. Here we are again in a position of extreme weakness. Let us stress that this procrastination and the impossibility of reaching agreement on time, we also owe it to the previous government, which has done nothing for five years. So, today, what is the nature of this deal proposed by ENGIE? Is this to be taken or left? If we refuse these additional costs, will they sit on the government's decision to extend these nuclear reactors? Moreover, it is curious to see that ENGIE proposes to co-finance the future but does not propose to repay us the over-profits that were achieved last year and that are estimated at 800 million euros. For this year, this estimate is over EUR 1 billion. What about it? What is your room for manoeuvre? Does this not strengthen our dependence on gas? Are we not already in danger of facing cuts in gas and energy supply in general? Could this situation lead to additional costs for consumers in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u5	Madam President, Prime Minister, a company that feels untouchable in an energy market that is barely working or not working sends a begging letter, while at the same time making billions of euros a profit. I find that incredibly unimaginable. I also find the statement made by Mr van N-VA unimaginable, given the bizarre position of that party. First, that party is in a government that decides not to decide. Now the party here is blaming others for taking a long time. Mr Wollants, you have always said that nuclear power is incredibly cheap and that it is very easy to extend the life of nuclear power plants. From the first minute on, I told you that there was a huge bill attached to the patch-up of those old nuclear power plants and that the company was going to try to pass those invoices. That's what happens today. The company tries to transfer the invoice for the nuclear waste while at the same time there are many excess profits. Come on, it's very simple. We don't have sacred houses. The most important thing for us is the affordability of the energy bill. I see today a company that makes a huge profit through people's energy bills, while trying to transfer the waste bill. In that connection, I would like to say two things. For the first point, I should like to address the House. In fact, there are clearer and more stringent legislative proposals on the nuclear waste bill. Let us adopt these proposals fully in the spirit of the polluter pays principle as soon as possible. Mr Prime Minister, on the second point, I should like to address you. That letter from ENGIE is now on the street. You've been around long enough to know that this is a classic bargaining trick to put pressure on you. I suggest you don't let that happen. However, I would like to know what you will do to correct this negotiation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u6	Prime Minister, you received a small letter from ENGIE this Tuesday. In this letter, ENGIE requires the State to pay for the extension of power plants and for nuclear waste. I heard this morning, on the radio, a first reaction. I quote: "ENGIE cannot make us believe that when we produce electricity at 35 euros per megawatt hour and sell it on the 200 euro market, that it needs our help." I don't know. Can you guess who said that? Who could that be? It could come from the PTB, right? No, it's from Mr.Bouchez, the president of the Liberal party, who has, throughout his history, been rolling out the red carpet for ENGIE. We've been saying that for a long time. There is a huge problem in this country: a multinational energy company has much more to say than the four energy ministers in this country. I told you, pinging, ENGIE passes by the cash register four times. ENGIE is making billions of profits and your government, Prime Minister, allows it, while measures have already been taken in Italy and the United Kingdom. So Pingping for ENGIE. Half a billion dollars for a new gas plant, thanks to the CRM: ping. Now ENGIE is also knocking on the table for money for the closure of nuclear power stations: ping again. ENGIE also tries to transfer the invoice for the nuclear waste to the State: ping. It is always the same with your liberalisation, the profits are for the private sector and the costs are for the government. As far as I'm concerned, Prime Minister, that letter can go back to the sender. Return to sender [[.]] How much longer will that take? When will there be an end to the fact that a multinational has everything to say here about our energy policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u7	Prime Minister, an agreement is an agreement for the Greens. This extension of the last two nuclear power plants was decided in March, for a capacity of two gigawatts for ten years, at a time when Russia invaded Ukraine, at a time when there were major problems with the French nuclear power stations, problems which, by the way, have only increased in recent months. Thus, a capacity of two gigawatts was extended for ten years, but it is not an eternal extension for the Belgian taxpayer. That letter from ENGIE we're talking about today doesn't come as a surprise, does it? This is what ENGIE said in 2019, in 2020, in 2021 and they're repeating it now in 2022. The N-VA has always pretended to be able to extend its lifespan, but its costs have been kept silent in all languages. Of course, ENGIE comes with demands today, but so do we. Let it be very clear, we are negotiating for the Belgian taxpayer. The bill for the lifetime extension, the bill for decommissioning and the invoice for the disposal of nuclear waste may amount to EUR 41 billion. It's for the polluter, so it's for ENGIE. We do not negotiate on behalf of ENGIE, we negotiate for the Belgians. Some parties want to confuse these negotiations here. I therefore ask you, Prime Minister, to clarify the state of play of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u8	Prime Minister, discretion is an important and sound feature for anyone who wants to negotiate and conclude negotiations. That is certainly my experience after decades of entrepreneurship, something that is not strange to you either. Discretion is therefore essential in this delicate dossier. Well-meaning advice, from whatever angle, making a public vis-à-vis the other side doesn't help. In the end, unfortunately, we also do not have access, via streaming, to the management meetings of ENGIE. The finality of what we want to achieve is security of supply, climate transition to low carbon energy sources, both renewable energy and nuclear energy with new technologies, and affordable energy. The more negotiations are conducted on the stage, the less chance we have of achieving good results. Ladies and gentlemen, the energy dossier requires long-term thinking and handling. Let us be honest, we may have done too little in the past. The new geopolitical situation is therefore also a wake-up call that makes us all aware of this, especially the citizens. The government has already made clear adjustments in the field of energy policy, extending the lifespan of two nuclear power plants and investing in the future of SMRs, small nuclear reactors. Our northern and southern neighbours have changed their policies in the same direction. Prime Minister, you are now negotiating with the Energy Minister with ENGIE. As an entrepreneur, I know that difficult negotiations can only land if both sides negotiate properly and discreetly. Public discussions, whether or not through statements in this House, and leaked letters, do not serve this matter. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u9	Madam President, Prime Minister, you were instructed by a decision of your government on March 18 to conduct a negotiation to conclude this early June. It's June 2. Last week, we asked the Minister of Energy a question without seeing the colour of the beginning of an agreement. A letter leaked in the press. This is obviously something quite problematic in the context of negotiations which must remain discreet. My question is very simple. How many meetings did they take place? How do you see the landing of these negotiations in June since you are in charge of an obligation of result in order to extend two nuclear power plants from 2025 for ten years?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u10	Madam President, Prime Minister, your government has decided to negotiate with ENGIE Electrabel for the ten-year extension of the two most recent units. Living right in front of Tihange, I solemnly tell you that I understand him in the face of the Ukrainian crisis and Putin. But your government has not signed up to cover more than €41 billion in radioactive waste bills over 300,000 years. Honestly, I can understand the position of ENGIE Electrabel. I am not going to blame a private multinational for trying, by all means, not to take into account this bill of over EUR 40 billion for radioactive waste. But, ladies and gentlemen, our role as well as that of your government, Prime Minister, is to defend at all costs the public interest, the public interest and public money. Public money is also the money of those who don't. I am thinking first of all of these Belgian taxpayers from Liège, Brussels or Antwerp. I am also thinking of my intern who was telling me this morning that he had to pay a fee of EUR 1,000 to his electricity supplier. It's not okay! I find this deeply unfair when we know that ENGIE Electrabel is full of pockets and sends a lot of profits to Paris. We are not defending ENGIE's shareholders in Paris. Prime Minister, my questions are simple and clear. Will you confirm your government's mandate to you and the Minister of Energy? Will you confirm this simple principle which is that of the polluter-pays?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u11	Madam President, the subject of energy affects many people. The government has therefore made a lot of decisions on this matter in recent months. One of these decisions was the decision to keep two nuclear reactors open for 10 years longer. We made this decision on 18 March and the reason for it is clear. The energy and geopolitical landscape in Europe has changed fundamentally. Everyone understands today the value of being energy independent. We are developing this strategy at European level. At this level, decisions have also been taken in recent months to ensure that European countries are more dependent and better able to work together to strengthen independence. One of the things that has been decided in recent days is, for example, a mandate for the European Commission to develop price caps in order to better control the gas markets. What I want to come to is that in recent months everyone has had to face all the choices, including historical choices made in our country. These choices were made decades ago to close all nuclear power stations by 2025. That is a choice that has been made and confirmed by all the participants of the previous government, including this Parliament. Mr Wollants, I sometimes have the impression that you are leading to a certain form of amnesia. It is not wrong to say at some point that the position, situation and priorities have changed and we are making a different decision in a new context. However, that is not the essence of the matter. The essence of our energy strategy is that we will have to make use of all our resources. Those are also the decisions of this government. We invest more in renewable energy. We are achieving a flexible gas capacity in order to better respond to the increased use of renewable energy. We have also made the choice to keep the nuclear reactors open for longer. Mr Cogolati, you have just indicated that. You indicate that you understand the choice made by the seven government parties. Seven parties manage to go beyond the choices made in history at a time that is not evident. To understand, I would say that at a time such as today's choices must be made for the common good and everyone must take responsibility. Sometimes this means that difficult choices have to be made. Indeed, the government has instructed the Minister of Energy and I to conduct these discussions. Several meetings were held. Such negotiations must be conducted in a cold-blooded manner, with respect for everyone's responsibilities and historical responsibilities. I believe that if we are to conduct these negotiations in a serious manner, we must exercise restraint and discretion. That is the position this government will take. The negotiating mandate is very clear, you know this government's decision. Our will is to reach an agreement. The interests of Belgium and its citizens are our priority. If we want these negotiations to go well, they must not take place in a public way. As far as provisions are concerned, this case has been dragging on for years. The Minister of Energy has taken charge of this matter and has made a proposal which is being discussed in committee for the time being. Here too, we manage to make difficult decisions in a period of uncertainty. I'm calling here. At this time of uncertainty, everyone must be able to overcome themselves around the negotiating table and take on their responsibilities – also their historical responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u12	Thank you, Prime Minister. It was a meaningless answer, as usual. I think we should bring in a number of things from the past. We remember it was the Verhofstadt government that sold it out. You say: we act in the interests of the consumer. I don't know. We also know that there was a resolution here in November 2020 asking for negotiations with ENGIE to take place in the best possible position. What did your government say? We're not gonna do that. That's way too early. There's no time to do all that right now. Stop it. Where are you now? In the added time, with your back against the wall, with the result that you will have to conclude the worst possible chord to keep that light still lit. We act in the interests of the citizens and businesses who have to be able to pay the invoices. You haven't done that in the last few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u13	Prime Minister, you tell us, "Our will is to reach an agreement." The Palice wouldn't have said better. You also say, "We want discretion." But ENGIE plays cards on the table. They feel so strong and powerful that they play cards on the table, putting their demands on the table. I hear, on the left, some people say that this is a multinational which seeks only profit. They're finding out today! But we've always known! By not making any decisions under this government, you have entrusted ENGIE with the keys to our future. We can see on the right of the parties that this government has done nothing. But they haven't done anything in the last five years of the previous government either! They also have a share of responsibility in the situation we are experiencing today. Finally, Prime Minister, what is needed is for this government to have a real strategy of energy sovereignty. Let him finally take the keys in hand and reverse the balance of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u14	Prime Minister, you rightly referred to the polluter pays principle in the commission dossier. Many colleagues have said that the polluter pays and that the waste bill is not being negotiated. I have seen the chairman of the Energy Committee here and I propose that he act as soon as possible so that we can vote on it. I would like to say to the colleague of the N-VA that it has come a long way. I see enough trouble. I see you in Flanders stopping windmills and ensuring that no power plants are built and that there is hardly any isolation. You always come here with those nuclear power plants at a time when the invoices are so high. Mr. Wollants, when I was standing here advocating 6% VAT, you didn't give it to me at home. However, if a multinational sends a letter, you will be the first to be here. That's the difference between us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u15	Prime Minister, you did not answer my question. I conclude from this that ENGIE will determine our energy policy for a long time if it depends on you. I would particularly like to comment on those secret negotiations, which you have called for and whose secrecy is apparently strongly supported here. We really do not agree with that. This is about billions of euros, taxpayers' money, so ping again. All this must be arranged in the back rooms, between you, Mr De Croo, Mrs Van der Straeten and ENGIE. We want to know what's going on there. We want to know what is being said there, we want to know what is being asked there. We really don't agree with this. We want these negotiations to be public. We cannot accept that while families pay blue ENGIE comes here to ask for money, even though they are already making usury profits. That's what I wanted to give you. We want these negotiations to be public.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u16	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, energy policy which is good for the wallet requires a clear vision. That's what the current government has. It has a clear vision of energy policy. It is committed to accelerating the roll-out of renewable energy. However, it also pursues a realistic policy. At the time when the situation changed, we agreed to extend a capacity of two gigawatts for a period of 10 years, with a clear negotiating mandate. Mr Prime Minister, you have confirmed that negotiating mandate again today. This means that the invoice, which can reach EUR 41 billion, does not end up with the Belgian taxpayer. The polluter pays, we do not allow the invoice to end up with the taxpayer. Let it be very clear, for the Greens, the energy policy of the current government must put sustainability but also affordability on top of one.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u17	As chairman of the Energy Committee, I would like to point out to Mr Buyst that she probably did not listen very well the day before yesterday. That 41 billion is the amount that will be spent until 2100. With inflation rates and taking into account, this is now 18 billion. In addition, a section for ENGIE is whereas a section for the decommissioning and disposal of the waste from the power stations will be for the government. I would like to reassure my colleague, Mr Verduyckt, that he will be informed in a moment that the legislative proposal to amend the legislation on nuclear facilities will be dealt with on 21 June. The intention is therefore to vote on it. Last but not least, Prime Minister, in the maritime sector, the best drivers are said to be on shore. I'm glad that...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u18	Prime Minister, you have at length recalled the general context and indicated that everyone must act in accordance with his or her role and take responsibility. The government's task is to provide all Belgians, at least from 2025 onwards, with enough electricity and - preferably, in view of our international commitments - carbon-free electricity. Therefore, these two reactors must be completed and extended. This must be done quite quickly, because the company must also order the fuel. As far as the financial aspects are concerned, it is clear - and it is stated in the agreement of 18 March - that the Belgian State must protect its citizens and must not make too high a financial investment in these negotiations. You're the guardian. That is why we will ask you again about this very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u19	Prime Minister, after your answer, I think there can be no doubt. Of course, you negotiate in discretion. That makes sense, and that's what a good negotiator does. You also recall the historical responsibility of ENGIE-Electrabel. One thing must be clear: it is out of the question that the Belgian taxpayer can pay twice: on the one hand, for his bill for electricity which explodes; on the other, for his bill for radioactive waste over 300 000 years. And I want to say to the N-VA: you're still swollen! For four years, under the previous legislature, you participated in the government majority and then you had the flexibility to extend as many reactors as you wanted. If, today, Tihange 1 and Doel 1 pay absolutely nothing, it is also because (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u20	Prime Minister, the debate that has just concluded has had at least two merits. The first was to allow you to hear the MR, in addition to Mrs Marghem's head, teach you the energy lesson. The second was to hear MP Ecolo say how convinced he was of the extension of nuclear power. Just that, it was two great moments of anthology! To get back to the bottom of my question, we have just had disastrous figures: a thousand bankruptcies just last month. Compared to May 2021, the number of bankruptcies was almost 100 % higher, and for the past month the largest number of bankruptcies was in Flanders, then Brussels and finally Wallonia. Let's not pretend that it's because Wallonia would be healthier! That's not the case. This is probably due to the smaller proportion of companies that are likely to go bankrupt. Still, if your government struggles to define an energy policy, it struggles in the same way to define an economic policy. Today, the fabric of SMEs is dying, and as someone would say, "you look elsewhere". What measures does your government intend to take to finally give a policy of supporting the fabric of SMEs? I am not talking about the successive weekly announcements of some of your partners, which we would do well to collect the ads since January and to measure which ones have really been followed up. The transport, construction and horeca sectors are particularly affected by major shocks to the shortage of materials, skills and labour. Moreover, inflation is so galloping that it risks generating 9,000 bankruptcies by the end of this year, placing us on the European podium (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u21	Mr Prévot, the first sentences you said were interesting. After that, you started using big words like "disadvantage" by quoting numbers. Mr Prévot, when you quote figures, you always have to make the right comparisons. You say that there were almost 1,000 bankruptcies in May. You compare with 2021 and 2020. It is true that in these two years there have been particularly few bankruptcies. Why? Because there was economic unemployment, bridge law, banks had received guarantees, etc. So you compare with exceptional years in which a great deal of action had been taken. The right comparison is with 2019, which was a normal year. In May of this year, there were 988 bankruptcies, and in May 2019, 954. The number of companies in bankruptcy in May 2022 is quite normal. Moreover, the figures for the first months of this year are comparable to those of 2019, while we cannot say that economically, everything is calm; on the contrary, it is rather turbulent. Thanks to the action of the government, thanks to the fact that this government has taken on its responsibilities and helped businesses over the past two years, we are now in a very normal situation. When quoting numbers, quote the right ones! But I thank you because you are proving that the government has taken action and has been able to save businesses, which has made it possible for them to remain today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u22	Prime Minister, your answer is even more worrying. If I repeat the figures since the beginning of this year – like this, I do not make any false or bad comparison! – 56% increase in the number of bankruptcies since January. We are announcing, with Allianz, up to 9,000 additional potential bankruptcies by the end of this year, placing us potentially on the top 3 in the euro area. And the only answer you give to this observation is to satisfy yourself that the number of bankruptcies is the same as in 2019! But this is not what will satisfy SMEs, who are now entitled to expect strong support measures after the health crisis, with the energy crisis, with inflation, the cost of materials, and the shortage of labour. If that is it, the only prospect of this government, Vivaldi is very sad!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u23	Madam President, Prime Minister, the European Union is a value union and not a cash machine. You said that a few months ago. That was a fair verdict. It was about the funds that Poland could and could claim under the Corona Restoration Fund. It amounts to EUR 35.4 billion, which is not small. Today we hear that the President of the European Commission, Mrs von der Leyen, would pay a visit to Warsaw and commit those funds that were blocked. That's what worries me. What has happened in Poland in the meantime? Poland was rightly endorsed at one point because it did not respect the independence of its judiciary. The principle of the separation of powers is fundamental to the European Union and an independent impartial magistrate must be able to speak, apart from what a government thinks about it. This happened more and more in Poland, where a disciplinary body was set up and where judges who were disobedient were punished and dismissed. There has been a change in the law, but it seems to me that it is still early, and I think it is premature for the President of the European Commission to go to Poland with that check. This decision by the Commission was not taken unanimously, since at least five Commissioners would have expressed reservations or voted against. That ball will return to the Belgian Government's camp and the European Council will have to give its opinion on it. What is the position of the Belgian Government?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u24	Thank you, Mr Dewael, for your question. Indeed, the preliminary trajectory is well known. About a year ago, Poland had submitted a recovery plan. The Commission had then decided to hold this under consideration, because there were questions about respect for the rule of law. That is why Poland had not received the advance. At that time, Mrs von der Leyen had also set out three milestones, which must be met. Yesterday, on the basis of an analysis, the European Commission decided that an advance payment could be made. Within four weeks, this dossier, on a proposal from the Commission, should go to the Council. It must be clear that the 27 Member States, including our country, will evaluate this dossier very well. It is important to achieve the milestones that have been put forward. Reforms must also be permanent. One cannot do any good and then take another step backwards. In the Polish Parliament, a new legislative proposal has been drawn up for this purpose. It must be clear that we will assess this on the basis of the milestones put forward by Mrs von der Leyen. That is also the reflection of the decision taken by the European Court of Justice with regard to Poland. At the same time, our country continues to insist that the Commission should initiate infringement proceedings and put into effect the conditionality mechanism for this purpose. Our country has argued for this on several occasions, and we will continue to do so. So this goes to the Council, which will meet again within a few weeks. Steps have been taken forward. The question is whether it will be sufficient for the European Court of Justice and whether the steps taken are lasting steps. Respect for the principles of the rule of law is the basis for the functioning of the European Union. We will continue to monitor this, together with the countries on the same lines.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u25	Prime Minister, I believe that the European Commission could also take a different approach, namely to see first and then to believe. By this I mean that we first see whether these milestones are set, whether Poland fulfils the conditions, and then release the funds. If we are already releasing some of the funds and saying that we are at the same time checking whether Poland is committed, then we may be able to fish behind the net. The conditionality remains the principle on which Belgium has always hammered and will continue to hammer, you say. It's about something very important. Independent justice, an independent judiciary, is a very precious principle of the European Union. That is not the way to go. European law must prevail within the European Union. Poland doesn't like that. Well, that is Poland's problem, but then the country must not want to pass the checkout. That's my point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u26	Prime Minister, Minister, this Tuesday our public services went down the street. Our nurses and healthcare staff, to whom we owe so much, our prison officers, our officials - responsible, among other things, for the fight against tax fraud - our railway workers, etc. On this day of mobilization, they denounce a deep malaise that has been going through the entire public service for years. And let us not be deceived: the loss of purchasing power is only the drop of water that makes the vase overflow. What undermines the public service is the recurrent disinvestment, the lack of consultation and the uncertainties related, in particular, to pensions. But this strike, Prime Minister, is also the result of a feeling of floating, the result of a feeling of absence. The absence of your government, the absence of a government that, from a socio-economic point of view, governs mainly by signing cheques, by sealing, and which, for the time being, has no major reform. What is the status of the indefinable pension reform? What is the status of the tax reform, of which we are not yet aware, when we all know that it is by reducing the burden on labour that we can really mitigate the attacks on purchasing power? What is the status of taking the unprecedented decline in the purchasing power of our citizens in the public service and elsewhere? Prime Minister, Minister, in a nutshell: what is the government's position on this strike? What message did you understand and hear? Are you going to answer with structural measures and not with an umpteenth cheque book? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u27	Prime Minister, Minister, I will not make a big statement to you. For the PS group, the public service is part of its DNA. Then, little confidence: it is public service blood that flows into my veins. Jaurès left this famous phrase: "Public service is the heritage of those who do not have it." This sentence, we can restore it to the taste of the day. Indeed, it is clear that public service workers, whether they are firefighters, police officers, railwaymen or tax, social security or health workers, are workers who enrich our daily lives, who are the foundation of our social cohesion, who are the foundation of our society. Tuesday, they were on strike. They were on strike and, believe me, it was not for pleasure, because these agents love their profession and are penetrated into the meaning of their mission. But they can't, they can't, because they don't feel respected, they don't hear, they don't know. Moreover, it must be remembered that during these two years of pandemic, they have shown with force and conviction, in the eyes of all, how much, with their resilience and their ability to question themselves, to give themselves without counting for the citizens of our country, they have reinvented themselves in difficult conditions. Prime Minister, Minister, I am shocked! I am shocked that civil servants are becoming poor workers. I am surprised at the budgetary adjustments that do not meet their demands. I am disappointed at the quality of the social dialogue which is deteriorating, but I am outraged when I hear in this House some Members say that public service must be degreased! What have you done and what are you going to do to improve the status and working conditions of our public service employees and public enterprises? What can be done to relaunch a high-quality social dialogue?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u28	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, this Tuesday the public service officers were on strike: childcare workers, garbage workers, health care personnel, etc. And you, Prime Minister, have said in the media that you have little understanding of their demands. Little understanding! It is true that when you earn more than 11,000 euros a month, it may be difficult to imagine what it is like to live with the salary of a waste picker or a child care worker. They said, "Maybe the Prime Minister should come and spend a day with us in a nursing home or in the hospital. He would see how we run from morning to evening. We can't anymore!" But this morning, Minister, there were over 6,000 people in the streets of Brussels, workers in the care sector from the north and south of the country. They said to me this morning, "Tell them. Tell the Minister. Tell them we're out of savings after years. Tell them we're up in the healthcare sector after covid." But what did I hear yesterday? Mr Vandenbroucke gave a press conference to announce that he would give EUR 400 gross per year to the staff of the federal care sector. Did I hear that right, 400 euros gross? Minister, do you really think that is how you are going to solve the problems in the healthcare sector? One thing is clear: people want better wages and better working conditions in healthcare today. Prime Minister, Minister, the question that I am asking is therefore very clear: have you heard the public service officers? Have you evolved? Do you have some understanding after this day? Are you listening to the medical staff who were still on the street today?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u29	Colleagues, thank you for your questions. I will answer that with Minister De Sutter. Indeed, I have spoken about this strike. Indeed, I take care of what I said. I have little understanding for a strike like this and I'll explain why. In Belgium, there is an automatic indexing system. In the Netherlands, France and Germany, negotiations are now under way. In Belgium, it's automatic. This means that in the public service, in the course of this year, there will be four salary increases. Four pay increments, automatically! Honestly, I'm defending this system. It is a very fast method of compensating, as much as possible, for a decrease in purchasing power. Moreover, the analysis of the National Bank has shown that this year, the purchasing power in our country will not diminish. It will increase even slightly. You can say you don't believe in numbers. I understand that. For you, the numbers are not important. But the analysis shows that our system is working. And the government has made additional decisions. Several billions are injected to try to make up for the increases in energy prices: fuel check, VAT reduction, lower excise duties, etc. This government is doing a lot in a difficult time. It is true that we are in a difficult time, which we did not want. It is the international context that dictates it to us. We didn't want that. But Belgian protection systems work and are necessary. In fact, we also asked a group of experts to look at whether additional indexing measures will be necessary, and to examine where they could have the greatest impact. But do you think that when there is a war on the European continent, it can be done without any impact? I don't think you're very realistic. We have a system in Belgium that protects much better than in other countries. So, in a moment like this, what we have to do is stick together and not try to divide the population. We have to stick together, but we also have to be reasonable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, on 31 May we were confronted with a national day of action in public services, at different levels of power. As you know, this was a joint action of the three representative trade union organisations to strengthen their demand for increased purchasing power and investment in public services. The action has been felt in various sectors, such as the civil service, but also in the areas of justice, hospitals, education, public transport and even public radio and television. I want to inform you that my advisors and I, from time to time, meet with the federal public service staff unions, almost once a week, to reach a sectoral agreement that we have been working on for quite a long time. I made a proposal to the federal public service staff unions and I hope to reach a pre-agreement with them before the summer. Of course, to reach an agreement, it takes two. My proposal contains a number of measures that will indeed increase the purchasing power of our officials for the first time in 20 years. There hasn't been a baraemic increase in 20 years. This includes the introduction of meal vouchers and the increase in end-of-year allowances. In addition, we also pay attention to the quality of the work. This is not just about the financial dimension. When we talk about the quality of work, we are working together on mental well-being, on speeding up selection and recruitment procedures, on the diversity and culture of feedback. A new sectoral agreement will also benefit the federal government as an employer. It will help make work in the federal government more attractive so that vacant positions can be filled more easily and services to our citizens can be improved. You know there's a talent war. In this context, it is also important for the federal government to be attractive and to remain competitive with other sectors, including the private sector. In many departments, we are faced with crucial shortages that cannot be filled because wage competition in the labour market does not stop. I am therefore ready to conclude a good agreement with the social partners and we will talk about it within the government. Meanwhile, the government and I did not remain inactive. We are already taking a lot of action in the context of the price rise caused by the crisis in Ukraine. For example, a proposal - and I am referring again to the federal government - is being finalized and is aimed at adapting the kilometric allowance for business travel more quickly than is permitted by the regulations, due to the sudden rise in fuel prices. You know that the government had hoped that the Group of Ten would have put forward a proposal in that regard. Unfortunately, this has not been the case. At the same time, a proposal is being developed to apply the bike allowance in more sectors and to increase the maximum amount so that it becomes more attractive to use the bike to get to work. I hope I have convinced you that we have heard the message that was sent to us last Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u31	Prime Minister, Minister, I did not get a response on pensions and tax reform, but I'm used to it. More fundamentally, on indexing, you know very well that automatic indexing of wages - and I agree with your satisfaction on the system - cannot be enough to compensate for increases in energy prices since they are very poorly accounted for in the index calculation, which is still one of the main problems. Then I hear, Madam Minister, and thank you for the work that has been done. I believe that the solution lies in the revalorisation of salary scales and essentially the lowest. Finally, I think it's time we stopped de-investing and de-structuring the federal public service. I am not just saying that to deal with the current situation. I am also saying this in the context of future state reforms aimed at ensuring that, unfortunately, this federal public sector is generally increasingly destroyed. I believe that, in any case, the federal public service cannot once again be the variable for budgetary adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u32	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for the positive elements of your responses. Revitalizing the public service and working conditions is a necessity. Officials should not be pressed like lemons. We need more than words, we need actions. His practice must be brought into line with his speech. Thank you, Minister, for continuing in the direction you have indicated. Minister, as the appropriate minister, be the voice of these workers to the government. They cannot be poor workers in the service of the State. Civil servants are wealth, not a burden. You have to tell yourself every day. Finally, we must invest in them. They are necessary and they deserve it. We need them like bread.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u33	Prime Minister, what contempt in your answer! What a contempt for the people who are on the street to demand better wages and better working conditions! This is outrageous! I am speaking to the left-wing parties in the government: have you not listened to the Prime Minister's answer that he does not understand the strikers? Prime Minister, you're still talking about wage indexation. But on the one hand, fuel is not on the list and on the other hand, indexation is not an increase in wages! Apparently, you're having a hard time hearing it and understanding it. Then know that we will be on the street with the entire working class on June 25 to make you understand it. We'll be on the street against the law that blocks wages! Finally, when it comes to caregivers, I didn't hear anything! It's also outrageous! [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u34	Madam Minister, on May 31, we had the right to a general strike that severely affected rail services. A few trains have crossed the country. Unfortunately, workers, students under examination, in short, citizens found themselves on the wharf, taken hostage by a strike whose reasons they do not always understand. [[Rummers]] [[)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u35	Madam President, no matter what her ideas are, but to hear a Member of Parliament be constantly shuddered, it is nothing democraticly respectful!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u36	Go on, Mr. Burton!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u37	Colleagues, at least let him speak! [[Rummers]] [[)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u38	Colleagues, can we hear Mr Burton?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u39	Thank you, Madam President! It is obvious that we do not all have the same notions of democracy, but each has its own references... Since 2018, thanks to Minister Bellot, we have had a law on the continuity of transport services. This was the first time that it could not be fully implemented due to the lack of sufficient personnel to run the trains. In any case, we can greet the staff who were working that same day. It is clear that these repeated strikes become a puzzle for citizens – whether they are workers or students – who are systematically taken hostage. We must begin to wonder whether we should not go further or even requisition staff for compelling reasons. It is also appropriate to continue social dialogue and reflection in the bodies of SNCB. Minister, does the model in place seem sufficient to provide this minimum, if not guaranteed, service to our people? Furthermore, are you in favour of the SNCB's management bodies undertaking this reflection, so as to improve the service in the event of a strike? Do you think future management contracts provide an opportunity to improve the situation? Finally, what do these thousands of workers and students who suffered from this strike inspire you?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u40	Madam Chair, Mr. Burton, I am replacing the Minister of Mobility, who is excused. However, no one underestimates the disadvantages and difficulties that a strike can cause for all users of public services, including the train. The Minister of Mobility has closely followed the way in which Infrabel and SNCB have organized themselves throughout the weekend to implement the principles laid down in the law passed at the initiative of Minister Bellot and which provides for a guaranteed rail service in the event of a strike based on the number of workers available. He wishes to stress the complexity of such a reorganization of the supply within such short time frames and thanks the two railway companies for their voluntarism in trying to minimize the disadvantages of this strike in the public service sector. But he would also like to stress the importance of workers in the rail sector. We can't drive trains without them. SNCB's proposed public service contract foresees more trains for the future and therefore more rolling personnel. Both SNCB and Infrabel are in the middle of recruitment. Two thousand posts are currently open. The current legal framework for the railway service in the event of a strike was the subject of a very enlightening opinion of the Constitutional Court in 2020. I invite you to read it again. This opinion is an essential beacon for the future. It states that it is possible for the authority to organize the service to citizens on a voluntary basis, but not on requisition. The Minister of Mobility wishes to stick to this principle. The right to strike is essential in a democracy. On Tuesday, it was an expression of a strong and shared demand by the Minister of Mobility for more resources and ambitions for the train after too many years of small-week policies or dark cuts in the rail sector. This is the best answer we could give to this strike, which we cannot – I repeat – deplore the ad hoc inconveniences for users, but which is and must remain a fundamental right for workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answers. Of which act. Please be aware that, through the MR directors within the management bodies, we are going to think at the level of the SNCB Board of Directors and in the bodies concerned. If so, we reserve the right to table a bill to amend the legislation in relation to this continuity of service to improve service to the public and citizens. That's essential! We are all here to advocate and promote rail transport. That is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u42	Mr. Secretary, you know, when I'm standing at the gas station, I have to think of you. The price of petrol has risen today as a result of the embargo on Russian oil to an absolute record level of 2.40 euros per litre. What do we see just across the border in Germany? Exactly the opposite. The German Government has done what your government has failed to do, namely to reduce excise duties to the European minimum. A liter of petrol costs 95 at our eastern neighbours now around 1.78 euros per litre. On a tank of 50 liters that saves no less than 18 euros. Gasoline 98 is even 25 euros cheaper in the German border area for a full tank. It is therefore high time for a further reduction in excise duty, because your first reduction in excise duty was wiped out after a week. So our question is: when are you finally shooting into action? When will there be a new package of purchasing power measures? What exactly is this government waiting for? To the expert group, which will not deliver a first opinion until mid-June? Just as during the corona crisis, it does not, of course, require experts, but politicians to make decisions. The population now does not need an avalanche of proposals from all the Vivaldi parties, no need for expert groups and long-announced summer agreements, but rather for politicians who make decisions and make decisions. We wonder, Minister, whether you realise that all these high prices are detrimental to people's portfolio, to our businesses and to our economy. In particular, do you realize that all these prices are high because of all your excise duties, your VAT and your taxes?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u43	Madam President, Minister, EUR 2.4 per litre. That's priceless. What will you do about it today? Every week I stand here asking you the same question. 2,10 euros, what will you do? Nothing. 2.20 euros, what will you do? Nothing. 2.30 euros, what will you do? Nothing. What will you do today? Nothing again? We can't go on like this. Yesterday we put 100,000 signatures to the Prime Minister's services asking for these excise duties to be abolished. The Prime Minister had told me that this cannot be done, and what are they doing in Germany? Minimum rate, 1.90 euros per litre. Why can this be done in Germany and not in Belgium? That is the question that everyone is asking. With this embargo on Russian oil, how many euros a litre will we have to pay? The PTB had said that it would be the workers who would pay. It's the workers who pay! It's easy! We're making an embargo on everything! We're making an embargo on Russian oil. And where are we going to buy the oil, comrades? In Saudi Arabia, of course, which is a great democracy! And, boom, in Yemen, it's bombing! This is no problem! Once again, it is the workers who will pay. Minister, my question is quite clear. Not only did you not do anything, but I'm even going to ask you a question about a pseudo promise you made. You said two or three times you were going to set up the inverted ratchet. Is this reverse ratchet mechanism activated? I've been told no. You didn't activate this mechanism. That's the opposite! The downward ratchet is active, but the upward ratchet has not been activated. So, not only do you do nothing but, besides, the minimum you should do, you don't do it! Will you finally take control of the removal of these excise duties, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u44	Madam President, Minister, the purchasing power of families is under pressure and we saw yesterday at the queues of cars that wanted to refuel just a little less expensive than today. Even the holiday money of two-earers is no longer enough to get paid the price increases and the billing of electricity and gas. Contrary to what Mr Vermeersch and Mr Hedebouw say, which pretend nothing has happened yet, a lot has already happened, such as the EUR 3 billion reduction in VAT and the reduction in excise duty on the pump to EUR 600 million. You're talking about Germany. I'm talking about the Netherlands. A lot of Dutch people come to Belgium to refuel because this government has already done a lot. However, purchasing power is more than taxation. Buying power is also getting people working and keeping people working. Buying power is also encouraging people to step up. However, buying power can also mean that more is being done than the good that has already happened. I disagree with much the opposition says. You were the first to propose reducing excise duties to the European minimum. The government has partially followed you. Let's move on. Prices will not fall very quickly. The CD&V Group proposes that excise duties should also be reduced to the European minimum in order to keep fuel prices affordable. Not everyone has a company car and not everyone can get to work by train.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u45	Colleagues, we have said it a few times here, the high prices of petrol and diesel weigh on our families. I am very aware of that. If people fear that they will not be able to pay for the journey to work or to school, then we must support them. There can't be a discussion about that. We've already done that, by the way. It gives the impression that we have not done anything yet, but we have already done so. In March, we quickly and efficiently reduced excise duties. That still means an advantage of 10.50 euros on a full tank today. It seems logical to me and no more than normal that when we evaluate the measure, we also extend and maintain it. This reduction must certainly be maintained. Of course, we have to do what we have to do. However, we must also understand that there are budgetary costs involved in doing what is necessary. We have to be honest about that. Do we have to do anything else after what we've already done? I think so. The oil embargo will indeed have an impact. In March I called for excise duties to be reduced to the European minimum rate of excise duty. Germany took that decision yesterday and opted to introduce a similar temporary measure for that reduction. As far as I am concerned, this is one of the reflections that must be put back on the table when we talk about people's purchasing power and the extension of the VAT reduction on gas and electricity. When it comes to purchasing power, that is a measure that we must take with us. At the same time, we must also dare to look at other solutions. We know today, for example, the system of flat-rate mileage allowances for movements that workers have to do with their own car for their jobs. This week, I proposed to index this fee and to apply it retroactively, so that there will also be additional support to offset part of the rising cost of petrol and diesel. Finally, we also have to look at the whole thing. We must not be blind to the impact of high prices in different sectors dependent on fuels, including the transport sector. They too are moaning today under the high prices. We must work together with the other members of the government to see how we can respond to this. In any case, I will argue in favour of this at the government table. We have also instructed the experts to investigate how purchasing power can be strengthened in the coming period. I will work on this with my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u46	Minister, Flemish Interest was indeed the first party to advocate a reduction in excise duty to the European minimum. We will continue to do so consistently. We will remain on your heels, Minister. Because you promised that reduction in November too, but you waited months for them to be implemented in the end. The longer your government waits to intervene, the more income you end up in. There is one winner of the extremely high prizes, the state treasury. We want to reduce the VAT rate on fuels to 6%, because diesel and petrol are basic needs. We also want to reduce excise duties to the European minimum. At European level, we must call for this minimum to be further reduced so that prices can fall to the level before the crisis. And if all this fails under your fight government, then all of you better take credit for yourself and pull the plug on this tax administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u47	Minister, when an opposition party like the PVDA campaigns and feels that the Minister of Finance is starting to doubt, I think we are doing well. We'll move on. We will continue to exert pressure so that the Vivaldi government will decide on a minimum VAT rate and minimum excise duty. But we need to move on. Why do you stay in European logic, with all these rules and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, Get rid of the excise duty! In order to save the banks, there was no problem putting the European rules aside. But for the excise duties, yes. That is where we have to follow the rules of Europe? No! We need a price freeze. The market simply cannot provide an answer for the people who are now giving up. We need a price freeze, 1.40 euros. Go for it, Minister. We continue, we go for more than 100,000 signatures for our petition.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u48	Mr Minister, we support the ambition to reduce excise duties to the European minimum, as well as the additional intervention on relocation costs of people working. These are short-term measures, but we must also take medium-term measures. The strongest purchasing power measure, in addition to tax cuts, is to get more people working and keep people working longer. Work has to be more rewarding. That's in taxation. The majority will have to step up. Promotion must pay off. Oh, overtime's gonna pay off. And if pensioners want to earn extra money, beg education and care for it, then we have to reward those people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u49	Minister, we are not just investing for healthcare workers in the healthcare sector, we are investing for everyone. That is right, because for the past two years we have really been pushed with our noses on the facts. We have no choice but to invest more in health care. We need to invest more if we want to guarantee tomorrow's care. The austerity logic of the previous government has not contributed to this. Over the past ten days, we've seen a number of sectors hit the streets. Today it was the turn of the non-profit and healthcare sectors. They have given a very clear signal, Minister. There's gotta be some getting better. The austerity logic has only led to fewer staff and fewer beds. Moreover, the necessary reforms have dragged on for far too long. So that's what we started to do. It is also important that additional measures are taken. You announced this yesterday. Examples of these important measures are the granting of additional end-of-year contributions to healthcare and nursing staff, as well as two additional days of paid leave and investment in HR. We believe that these measures matter and that it is important for them to get there. I have a question for you in this context. What do you think with these measures is the need for care of the people in a rather tight (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u50	Minister, the knowledge centre recently published a report on their research into specialised nurses on the intensive concerns during the covid crisis. The center has investigated how these nurses experienced this period. There have been remarkable findings. It turns out that specialised nurses who are well surrounded and can work in a pleasant environment are much less likely to burn out and less likely to leave the healthcare sector. The quality of care is also better when working conditions are good. So these people do not leave the sector and like to do their job. It has been known for a long time that the number of hands on the bed is important for the quality of care. More than that, the number of hands on the bed even determines the chances of survival in a hospital. There are fewer deaths where more hands are available. However, it is poignant that the caregivers do not always get to the patient, because they also have to clean, clean up, share food, check the stock and that's all. These are also important issues, but these specialist nurses are overqualified. Especially in times of a health crisis, they have other business to do and should be available to patients. In 2020, just before the covid crisis, the knowledge centre calculated the additional 5,500 full-time equivalents needed for an amount of around 400 million euros per year. Let that be just the amount of the Health Care Staff Fund. Prime Minister, how many additional full-time employees are there today? What will you do to the job content and the (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u51	Madam President, Minister, the measures you announced yesterday are positive. They are positive, but already the fact is very clear: they are largely insufficient in view of the seriousness - yes, the seriousness - of the current situation. It is up to 20%, even for some hospitals, 30% of hospital beds that are closed due to lack of nurses; 6,000 nursing posts are vacant in Belgium, compared to only 4,900 in 2019. The situation is getting worse. We have 200,000 nurses, but only 150,000 exercise. The number of patients to be cared for per nurse is much higher in Belgium than the European average. The demonstrated consequence is an increased risk of mortality and complications. These measures are therefore insufficient. The questions are therefore very clear. Minister, when will there be a re-evaluation worthy of this name? You are here correcting the IFIC for specialized nurses. Nothing for nurses whose specialization is still unrecognized. Nothing for caregivers other than nurses either. I am thinking, for example, of caregivers. There is a bonus of 400 euros, of which only 200 euros will remain at the end of the year. When will the supervisory standards finally be improved? When will penitibility be recognized? When will there be progress on working conditions? These are all measures that exist today. If there is a priority and urgent issue in health care, it is the strengthening of caregivers. All these reasonable proposals have been put on the table by nurses and caregivers and have been validated very clearly in the two KCE studies available to us. Minister, listen to the caregivers. It is urgent to move forward on these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we must invest in our healthcare staff. There is no doubt about that. There are many good reasons for that. Firstly, they deserve it, after the enormous efforts that have been made during the pandemic and which are still taking their toll today and are continuing, because a great deal of delayed care now needs to be addressed in our hospitals. However, we have another good reason to invest in the care staff. Investing in care staff means investing in good health care and so investing in all of us. Today we are completing a first chapter of investment in health care. Mrs Gijbels referred to the Health Care Staff Fund. Mrs Gijbels, the data we have from the initial reporting by the Health Care Staff Fund, but which are unfortunately already somewhat dated, show that this enabled 4,500 full-time equivalent staff to be used in the federal care sector, especially in hospitals. To find the right qualified staff for those 4,500 full-time equivalents, hospitals have indeed often had difficulties. We'll get back to you on that. Indeed, we must also work on providing people and training for people. The sector must also be attractive for young people to join. However, the Health Care Staff Fund was an important answer to what the Knowledge Centre indicated at the time. In addition, this week we have put the final piece of the puzzle into the implementation of the social agreement to improve wages. We are talking about a piece of puzzles, with EUR 100 million remaining to be given a definitive structural destination. In other words, all staff in the hospitals will receive an additional end-of-year bonus of EUR 400 gross for both kitchen staff and care professionals and nurses, as well as those who have opted for the new IFIC wage model as well as those who have not opted for it. Mrs Fonck, I am the first to admit that this is not a huge amount. It is 400 euros gross for those working full-time. For those working part-time, this is 200 euros. That's where taxes and contributions go. However, it is a welcome extra reinforcement and a nice conclusion to the great social agreement. Moreover, it is not insignificant that part of this amount, EUR 7 million, will be used to encourage and support hospitals to truly improve their staffing policies with a view to good organisation, human working conditions, good allocation of tasks and combating and preventing burn-out. Hospitals are asked to strengthen their staffing services with people who explicitly intend to work on them. As you know, there is also a limited measure for hospital staff, which should allow people in exceptional circumstances, a child who has become ill or a parent who is hospitalized, to have one day's leave without loss of pay twice a year. That's important, too. Mrs Gijbels, Mrs Fonck, you referred to the new wage model. You referred to the IFIC salary model. This is an important model that has been discussed for many years and is based on a social agreement. There's probably still a lot of work to do. I have a plan for specialized nurses, as you rightly said, to correct this model. We are indeed making an additional effort for the specialist nurses. The new wage model is particularly interesting for people who start out and is more interesting for those who are not specialised. On top of that new wage model, we are allocating EUR 45 million to specialist nurses in the year 2023, with a limited intermediate step in the months that will follow in 2022. It is true that in 2023 about 12,000 specialised nurses with a special professional title will receive an additional premium in the month of September, which may increase to EUR 2,500 for those who work full-time and have such a title. But the work isn't done. I believe that the IFIC needs to be evaluated, and that has been agreed. For example, we want to look at the aspect of seniority with the social partners as part of the monitoring of the evolving IFIC model. In fact, collective labour agreements and protocols for IFIC provide for part of the duties to be maintained each year. In practice, about 10 per cent of the functions are reviewed each year. These functions are determined by the social partners. IFIC is certainly not perfect. This is to be assessed on an ongoing basis and this is what we are going to do. We are closing one chapter and we must start a new chapter immediately. We must continue to invest. A new round of investment is indeed needed, but it needs to be properly prepared. That is why I invited the social partners to start thinking, together with me, about what a new round of investment in care staff should look like. All themes should be addressed: remuneration, framework, quality of work, work organisation, training, occupational profiles. They should all be on the table if we want to invest further in this. The implementation of this will not be for this legislature, but if we want to make a new major investment effort in the care staff in the next legislature, we must now start preparing for it. That's what I want to do. I do not, however, exclude, if there is any support for it, that in the very short term we will be looking for specific measures to begin to remedy the enormous shortages, the shortage of staff and the lack of supply. We must therefore continue to invest in health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u53	For us, Minister, these are good measures. They are measures which result from a social agreement and therefore also give recognition to that social dialogue. We know this is important. You keep your word, keep your word. We continue to invest in the healthcare sector. That's very important. It is not about one poor measure, Mrs Merck. I invite you to make the sum and then return to the discussion. Today the non-profit sector came out, as did the healthcare sector, with a song, I'm not going to sing it here, with a slogan, which was Volop Vooruit. That is a justified boost for you and for us, for the government and for investment. I hope it will also inspire other governments to take action.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u54	Minister, when it comes to the additional full-time equivalents that have been created, you also know that there are no full-time figures and that this is not just a net additional workforce. It's often about the extension of contracts, those people are in there too. I am sorry that we do not have a clear picture of the number of additional full-time equivalents, because 400 million is not little. You are shifting the care relief to the next legislature, and I regret that. There are very good examples to be found to reduce the administrative burden quickly. We only have to look at the Netherlands, where very nice projects have been developed. The most important thing if we want to invest in healthcare is also to look at all the billions that are not being properly spent at the moment. We really need to make sure that we can channel that oxygen to the nurses and health care professionals, because in those unjustly spent billions, the three billion where professor (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u55	Mrs Vanpeborgh, you say that it is not poor investment. Today care workers have come out on the street and they have been very clear, they want extra investment. The measure of EUR 400 gross per year is clearly not enough, which will not solve the problems. If I have heard the Minister correctly, he says that there will be no additional investment for the next legislature. That's outrageous.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u56	Mrs Merckx, I simply invite you, apart from the next legislature, to look at all the investments that have already been made. You're picking out one measure, but there were several. You just need to learn how to add up. Maybe you should go back to elementary school.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u57	Minister, maybe I'll start with IFIC. Indeed, there is a correction, and your predecessor knows how much, as soon as IFIC appeared, I had brought back information that was highly problematic. You are making a correction here for specialized nurses, but many specialized nurses have still not seen their specialization recognized and are simply forgotten. In addition, you have professions other than nurses for whom IFIC also poses problems. Not a word for these professions, not for caregivers. Be aware of the reality of what has been decided for the caretakers at IFIC level, after which we will be able to talk about it again! Please, don't forget them! This chapter for you is finished but, admittedly, it already dates from the previous legislature, since the draft social agreement dates from 2019. The budget must be adopted and decisions must be taken now; this cannot be postponed to the next legislature because it will then be too late and the haemorrhage may get worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u58	Madam President, Minister, you are putting on the government table an ambitious and coherent pension reform that will change the lives of all pensioners, but I would say above all of all pensioners. In addition to the essential reforms, and I am thinking in particular of the 42- to 60-year-old career condition that will make it possible to recognize the penitibility of workers who started their careers earlier, you are tackling something essential and historic: what affects women. We know that today a woman's pension is 33% lower than a man's. Why? Simply because women often work part-time, because they sometimes have to set aside their careers to raise children, because there is always a large wage gap between women and men. At the end of this career, women still face a pension penalty. Madam Minister, I say yes. Yes to the revalorisation of part-time working in the calculation of the pension, to the splitting, to the individualisation of the rights. It is modern, it is more social justice, it is feminist – let us dare say so – and it is above all indispensable. Minister, my question is very simple. Can you give us concrete measures that will improve the lives of women who retire?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u59	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, more than 20% of all what Father State receives goes directly to pension expenditure. Allow me to quote one of the priorities of the government agreement:'make reforms to ensure the financial and social sustainability of pensions'. That's what you were going to do by September 2021, but on your first seat you were tubular. You got a second seat last December-January, but you simply didn't show up. There is now a third that you will be able to put on the table, hopefully, your pension reforms. In the meantime, pension expenditures are getting out of control. At the start of the Vivaldi government, this expenditure amounted to about EUR 52 billion and has now risen to EUR 60 billion, an increase of 14% in less than two years. This exploding increase in pension expenditure is likely to be a tragedy for the future generation. A rate of effectiveness of 80 % will not solve that, as you will not achieve that objective. This makes the need for reform accurate and even absolutely necessary, but so far I have not heard anything about it. You only spend a lot of money without funding. Madam Minister, why will the promised third party be in a sustainable pension reform in July? Do you think you'll get the whole government with you this time?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u60	Madam President, Madam Secretary, is it your moment now the gloire? Will you finally tell us what your pension reform looks like and exactly what it will entail or will we be sent back in with a brat? In an interview a few weeks ago, Mrs. De Bleeker took a bit of an interest in you because your pension reform is out of the question. The Secretary of State makes it appear that this pension reform should save on the heavily loss-making budget. You said, on the other hand, that you will not be the minister who will save on pensions. This is yet another example of division within Vivaldi and the new political culture at the top. In the meantime, the Prime Minister has drawn up this dossier and he will lead the discussions between the various Cabinets. You are the prime minister who insists on equality. How do you explain, for example, that civil servants' pensions are up to three times higher than those of our hard-working self-employed workers? All actors are increasingly calling for a clear reform. Until today, it's waiting for Godot. Where's the plan? How is it possible in a government with as many as four former Pension Ministers that there is still no plan? What is the state of your reform now? Do you follow the Secretary of State's reasoning that this should save the state's cash?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u61	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the pension debate has been going on for a while. People are consciously worried about their retirement. More than half of young people fear that they will never have a pension. Scaring without a solution is your strategy, Mr Van der Donkt. Madam Secretary, is this a complex file? Yeah, this is a complex file. Should we hurry? Yeah, we gotta hurry. However, I am only going to call on the sidelines, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Van der Donkt, what you do not do is finish your reasoning. You keep saying that it's priceless, but you're actually saying that we're not willing to pay your pension, so fix it yourself. In a government with socialists, we provide a decent pension. Your government has, above all, provided all kinds of jobs without contributions. That is the way the right is undermining our pensions. I also hear here saying that there is no plan. Madam Minister, I am proud that we have ensured a minimum pension of EUR 1,500 net. I'm proud that we're making for a dignified old age. I am proud that, with Vooruit, we stand for fair financing of pensions. Madam Minister, it is now the Prime Minister who indicates the urgency, and I think it is right, because it is time for clarity on pensions. Our group is enthusiastic about your proposals. Forward is for a pension after 42 years of work. We also believe that longer work should be rewarded with a pension bonus. We also consider part-time work and care tasks to be valued. Madam Secretary, I have a question. How are you going to make sure you...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, I would like to thank you for your questions. So I have a chance to give you an update on the pension reform. The government does indeed have an agreement on several points. Firstly, we are working on four concrete measures that will bring greater social justice, support work and eliminate inequalities between men and women. We have agreed to reach an agreement on this before 21 July. Secondly, we have instructed the social partners to work on three specific issues. They will submit an interim report in July and a final report in December. These issues are: the modernisation of the family dimension and the issue of pension split, the generalisation of the second pillar, and the social and financial sustainability of our pensions. The government also decided to analyze additional measures that could contribute to strengthening the justice system of our pension system – some cited the 42 years – and to best support the 80% employment target. With regard to the first four measures, work is under way in intercabinet working groups. These measures relate to pension bonuses, part-time pensions, minimum pensions and the search for ways of valuing work with a concrete measure aimed at reducing the pension gap between men and women, which is now at an unacceptable level of 33%. I take this answer to repeat what I have been saying since the beginning of my term of office: there will be no reform if it does not significantly reduce the inequalities that currently make women receive a third less pension. We're talking about financial sustainability all day long. That is indeed important. But the social sustainability that goes, in particular, through greater equality between men and women is, in my view, even more important. It is more than time to take our pension plan out of this patriarchal vision of our society. The pension system must be adapted to take account of the reality of all (men and women). It must therefore also take into account the hundreds of thousands of women who have no choice but to accept part-time employment, either because the sector in which they work mainly offers this type of employment or because they have to look after their children or a relative. It is for this reason that I propose, in a first package, a measure to enable part-time work to be revalued in the calculation of the pension. It is also for this reason that I have mobilised researchers to feed the work of the social partners in order to have concrete studies and results on the modernisation of the family dimension in our pension system under this legislature. In conclusion, I am shocked by the words of some who would like to make pensions a variable of budgetary adjustment. I say this and I repeat: there will be no reform aimed at making savings on the backs of current or future pensioners, nor today when the majority of Belgians are facing an unprecedented decline in their purchasing power, nor tomorrow. All economists agree on two fundamental elements today. Our pension system is unfair and the basic pension is much lower at home than in neighbouring countries. Pensions, however, are not only an expense to the State. It is also and above all the purchasing power of 2.2 million current pensioners and 3 million tomorrow. However, letting our elders get poorer would be catastrophic for our economy. However, let us remain serious. At the start of this legislature we decided to increase the minimum pension by more than 20%. On 1 January 2024, it will be more than 1,500 euro net. We will not come back to this, quite the contrary. We will continue with the reform to make them socially equitable and more inclusive, in view of the social and financial sustainability of the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u63	Minister, thank you for your answers. We are in the twenty-first century and women no longer want to stay in a world like this, they no longer want to depend on a man to live, they no longer want to wait at home and continue to do household chores. We're in another world, another society. We don't have the same reality anymore. Women work, combine work and domestic work. Sometimes they have several part-time jobs. Today we need a reform that transforms our pension system in order to adapt it to reality. It is also necessary to restore equality and to throw this old patriarchal model into oblivion. Madam Minister, you are making this clear. The socialists, all the progressives and feminists of the country will strongly support you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u64	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer that there was actually no such thing. You simply chewed back what you said during your first and second seat, for which you were guided. We do not want to scare people, of course, because the N-VA is just concerned about the future and pension of the citizens. All you do is spend money, and you're not awake from the funding. I'll give it to you on a page, if you continue this way, this will lead to tax increases and then the state debt will blow the whistle. God forbid, but the next generation may then be obliged to raise the retirement age again in order to keep the system affordable. You have so far pursued a non-policy, which will ensure the most antisocial situation possible. Our children and grandchildren will suffer. Grab that chance at last and beaten before your third sits (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u65	Madam Secretary, after many years of work, the pension must ensure that people can enjoy their old age carefree. To eliminate the risk of poverty as much as possible should be a priority for the government. That is what a welfare state stands for. Let us be honest, for decades the Socialists have delivered the Minister of Pensions. This has created more problems than solutions. What is the status of equality of pensions? There is still a very large difference between a civil servant's pension, a self-employed pension and an employee's pension. Apparently, one retired person is worth more to you than the other. Make work of that alignment of the statutes, in order to eliminate these injustices. You will need a lot of political courage for that. However, your vivaldi government does not have that political courage.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u66	Madam Minister, thank you for the answer and the progress you have indicated. I hear here talk of a worthy old age. I have said that everyone will receive the minimum pension of EUR 1,500. This is also an important step forward for the self-employed. I heard the N-VA is worried about the funding. However, I hear the same thing in committee week after week, they are almost slogans. Colleagues, of course a higher employment rate is essential. However, the solutions you indicate do not make much sense. The bottom line is that if people are made poorer, they will work. This is your story over and over again, the strengthening of degressivity and a reduction in pensions for those who have worries or setbacks. Mr Van der Donkt, I was standing here a week ago. At that time I pointed out that the problem is more complex than that. All I can see is that there are few solutions for those who are worried or unhappiness. There's hardly room in day care. Flemish education is on apegapen. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u67	Madam Secretary, 1 600 recruits a year from the police force, that is the objective you have set first. It remains to be seen whether these 1,600 recruitments are sufficient to meet the needs of the field in full. I give two additional figures, Madam Secretary. In West Flanders there are 2.27 policemen out of 1,000 inhabitants. In Flemish Brabant there are 1.79 policemen per 1,000 inhabitants. You know very well, Mr Vandenput. In Brussels, that is more than double. However, the core of the problem is recruitment, which is still being organized federally. Imagine that. You're excited, you want to apply to the police, but what happens? Your letter will be sent to the recruitment office in Brussels and will remain there for a few months, after which a questionnaire will be sent. Then you'll have to wait a few months to complete the physical tests again. If you're lucky, you can wait a few months to be invited to a conversation. Only then can you start a year of police training. You can imagine that the enthusiasm after this two-year agony has disappeared. Police schools cancel out training, because the flow of applicants does not go as it should. This situation is dramatic, Madam Secretary. I don't think recruitment should be organized at federal level anymore. Madam Secretary, please do your job of recruiting locally. Have the local police zones assume their responsibilities so that the prospective police officers can be brought to the police more quickly and efficiently. Madam Secretary, when are you going to do this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u68	Madam President, Madam Minister, contrary to what was announced yesterday in the Committee on Home Affairs, you promised, according to a document by Jobpol, on 18 September 2021 to fill in the annual 3,000 vacancies. On the same 18 September, you proposed a new selection procedure to ensure that recruitments were made quickly. In doing so, the physical admission tests are reduced to a joke, a walk of 8 minutes for male candidates and 6 minutes 15 seconds for female candidates, at increased speed. I took part in that trial and passed. [[Hilarity]] Isn't that bad if you know I'm 70 years old and weighs 125 kg? An additional selection test, in particular the interview with the selection and recruitment commission, was abolished. It would only take 18 weeks for a registered candidate to receive an answer. Thirty-four weeks later, almost an ass-dress, on 9 May, I read that there are exactly 17 recruits, while there is a need for 3,000 in the recruitment reserve. Last week, I made some noise and made a little call to the police. Suddenly, the number of people in the recruitment process has increased to 98. In case you have any doubts, I can present the figures on paper. Just on May 11th, the judicial police declared that she lacked 500 people to prosecute serious criminals. The local police need to find 2,000 new candidates from those 98 people. In the Flemish-Brabant and West Flemish police schools there are not even courses organized, which are simply abolished. In my congregation, I took those tests, as I said, in December. At the time, 34 people had registered as candidates. Hardly any of those people have been summoned yet. A candidate even had to send his files a second time, because it was lost. Another candidate now works at customs because a response from the police was out too long. I notice that the entire recruitment service of the federal police is a mess. That service is undermanned, or undermanaged.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... Madam Minister, I am asking you...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u69	Madam Secretary, if we can believe you, there's no problem. Everything runs perfectly, the target numbers will be achieved with the utmost ease. You said it yesterday in committee: everything is going as it should. On the other hand, there is reality. We hear a slightly different story on the ground. Just today we are receiving a letter from colleagues, you may already guess it with a cry for help. Another cry for help! Madam Secretary, it's not the first time you've been dealing with emergency calls. Two weeks ago, we received the distress call from the magistrates and the FGP. Unfortunately, it is becoming so soon your trademark. I wonder if you still feel involved at all. Do you still want to pursue a policy? Where's the shoe this time? Well, there's plenty of candidates, but there's not enough staff to recruit! This is certainly the case on the Dutch-speaking side, both at the recruitment service and at the medical services. Where exactly is the bottleneck? As the colleagues said, he's with the federal police. Candidates don't get any further there. Let me give you an example: in Flemish Brabant there was a campaign, as you said, with the governor and the police, and there were no less than 250 candidates who were eager to start. But what do we see? The training schools have abolished classes. They can't start because there aren't enough people on the recruitment service. Let's be clear: we've lost those candidates. They're not coming anymore. In the meantime, they've found another job a long time ago. They are no longer waiting for a new training moment. And not only have we lost them, but the policemen who have been working to recruit those candidates and to find colleagues, we have also lost them. We'll never get them motivated to run another campaign like that again. The result of their efforts was simply zero point zero. I fear, Madam Secretary, that the problems here will not be solved in this way. Hence my question: what (...)?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u70	Colleagues, Madam Secretary, the police are primarily people. Those are people who work for our safety day in and day out. Strengthening the police means more commitment to people. I think that, Madam Secretary, is your priority. You were able to recruit 1.897 prospective inspectors last year. None of your predecessors have ever been able to do that. You also left net more and there was more inflow than outflow. That was also unique in this country. You can check it out. However, we must not close our eyes to the problem, ladies and gentlemen. I went to West Flemish police school last month. That's where they made it clear to me that there's something wrong with the federal recruitment system, that's where the bottleneck is. It is difficult to understand that, for example, everyone has to come to Brussels for the medical fitness test, where only a few doctors are present to carry out the medical check-up. Yesterday, the director of the West Flemish police school in De Standaard testified that almost no more recruits are coming to the school. He immediately said it had to do with the police shortage in the service. Also the Chairman of the Permanent Committee of Local Police was clear, he said that one of the possibilities was recruitment in the local areas. For CD&V that is an interesting idea. We want to include this on the table of the sectoral negotiations. There are two paths. We can reinforce the recruitment service and see how we can work locally. Madam Secretary, are you open to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important subject. We had an opportunity yesterday in the Committee on the Interior to discuss this. I like to do politics on the basis of evidence, based on figures, on data and slightly less on the basis of the emotions you are raising here, Mr Dedecker and Mrs Goethals. I have the ambition to recruit 1,600 prospective inspectors every year since my appointment as Minister. That is important and we are certainly taking the necessary initiatives to achieve it. You'll be invited to look into it. Last year we effectively recruited 1,897 prospective inspectors. There's never been so many new starters as a prospective police inspector. However, that is not the only thing. There are also sideways recruitments, as we discussed last year, Mr Dedecker. These are people with some seniority, start-ups at the CALog staff, security agents, commissioners, people with specialist profiles that are more necessary than ever for the federal judicial police. In this way, more people can effectively influx than they are leaving. I checked the numbers again. 1,200 people left last year. Those are people who have retired and also people who have started doing other things in their professional careers. With the recruitments we achieve, there are more that begin. That is not like the years before, where there were sometimes far fewer recruitments than streamers. With regard to the figures today, I am speaking on the basis of the information I have received, we have so far recruited 996 new prospective inspectors. Today is June 2nd, so the year is not over. I'm going to recruit those 1,600 prospective inspectors again this year. They must then sign up for the training. You know all that. 698 prospective inspectors have already registered for training this year. That's about the same level as last year. I shall therefore go for the same result this year. After all, there are still 90 people who are in the old recruitment concept. The new concept includes 914 people. That means we're definitely on schedule to get 1,600 people this year. I cannot anticipate the figures for the end of the year today. We are only committed 100%, along with all services, to live up to the set figure. In recent years, there have been more police officers than before. There are 1,000 more people in the local police than five years ago. This also shows that we continue to focus on the growth of the police. In Belgium, on average, there are more police per capita than in other countries, and certainly more people than in the Scandinavian police. I didn't say the world was perfect yesterday, Mrs Goethals. A colleague of yours said everyone has to be intellectually honest. I said that I always try to be. So it's not very neat that you're acting like I said it's perfect. I didn't say that. After all, we must continue to work on it. The recruitment service of the federal police has been strengthened, both with psychologists and with administrative staff. The framework has been completed there at the moment thanks to this reinforcement. So it's not like all the files are collecting dust or letters have to be taken from underneath months later. In addition, in order to accommodate local police areas which would like to recruit locally, we have proposed in the proposal for the qualitative part of the sectoral agreement that local recruitment can indeed take place. We must do so by monitoring people's quality levels and uniformity. That is on the table and is being discussed with the trade unions. We are in favour of that. The more people in the police force, the better. We'll accompany that branch. I would also like to refute the insinuation that we have had to cancel a lot of classes. That is not the case. One class has been dropped and four classes have started with fewer aspirants than the maximum number. This has to do with the fact that candidates who have been selected can choose when to start, for example because they have ongoing professional engagements. That is the reality and, of course, we are working on it. There was a temporary problem, and then we'll talk in three weeks, screening the candidates. As a result, not all candidates were able to flow immediately, but that has been resolved in the meantime. So hanging up the picture that the banks of the police schools would be empty is not correct. I would like to thank all those involved in the recruitment of the police at the local and federal level of the integrated police. That 1,600 isn't just any number. They are needed because we want to continue investing in the integrated police force and I will do everything in my power to ensure the safety of our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u72	Madam President, Madam Minister, I agree with you. It's not perfect, that's right, it's dramatic. The situation is so serious that the police unions and the chairman of the Permanent Committee of the Local Police declare the federal police bankrupt. That's how much we could read in the press. Who can blame them? If we look at the federal judicial police alone this year... we heard the top of the magistratery in our committee screaming that there is a shortage of staff and resources. The shipping police must carry out their duties at a minimum rate and fight against drug trafficking in the port of Antwerp, one of the largest hubs in Europe. Now there are also problems with the recruitment service, where there is a shortage of staff and resources. A major restructuring is needed. Indeed, we need to focus on recruitment at local level. I call on you to seek support within your government to bring about a change in that. Otherwise, this government will remain...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u73	Madam Secretary, what good news show is being staged here? This is the statement by the director of the West Flanders Police School, to the recruitment service of the federal police that must assign students: "Send us no more candidates." This is the statement of the Flemish-Brabant police school: "because of the lack of candidates, the class of June 2022 is deleted'. Who's lying here anyway? I'd like to hear you speak, ma'am, about the lateral influx. Well, let me give you an example. You know perfectly well that an ordinary agent can become an inspector after three years of service. He'll have to study for six months. Call the director of the Flemish Brabant Police School. Ask what they've done to two cops who haven't had ten days to serve for three years. They even got them out of those classes! What you need to do, Madam President, is first of all to give that service a budget, because that is also being lied about. I can show you an e-mail from the police themselves which shows that it has no budget for recruitment. I have it in my possession. I have another e-mail from (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u74	Madam Secretary, I would like to inform you that my emotions stem from that cry of distress, from that letter signed by all the police chiefs of the Antwerp police area. I don't think that's a small area. That's what I wanted to tell you. How come your truth is so far from the reality of the Flemish police zones? Your zones moan under the labor-intensive search. They groan under unsustainable pressure. You've stated a number of times that recruitment is your stick horse. You're right. Fantastic, but your stick horse looks like an old tuber with colic. It's not progressing. It's sticking. It's not okay, Madam Secretary. Fix this. There are solutions. Let people start their training even if they haven't done all the tests. Go for it. Go ahead. It's possible. Do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u75	Madam Secretary, I heard you say that you had a lot of appetite and a lot of courage, but it wasn't perfect yet. It's a good thing you're back on track this year to get those 1,600 people. That's what we heard. This is the first government to do that. I am also very pleased that you are already working on this local recruitment. We did it in Antwerp and we did it in Bruges. In other places too, hopefully also in smaller zones, you will certainly succeed. However, I believe that we still need to launch a small campaign to ensure that selected aspirants apply for training as soon as possible. Sometimes there is a long time in between, which is then lost. Good luck.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u76	This concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u77	Madam President, I do not envy your task. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. Question Time is, however, the moment when the legislature stands versus the executive. There are a number of agreements on the use of time. I am in favour of strict compliance with these agreements. If not everyone, to put it this way, is told the truth in two minutes, it will not be the truth. However, if the answer cannot be given on the prescribed five minutes, it will not be the truth either. I note that you are turning out the micro very consistently, for which I commend you, at the time when the speaking time for Members ends. They can follow that. The last 20 seconds are indicated in red. However, you do not have that kind of stringency when it comes to members of the government. Consistently, all the ministers who have replied here today have gone far beyond the speaking time allocated to them. That is not the way in which we can deal with each other properly. So I would really urge you, if you turn off the microphone of Members after the second, to repeat that there is something to be said for this, to show the same correct severity with regard to the members of the government. That is what we can expect from you as President of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u78	I hear the opposition's remark, since it was from his bench that the thought came that the ministers should also be cut off as they complete their intervention. If the majority doesn't make a point, I'll cut everyone off in time - and so bad for the listeners who won't hear the end of the answer. There are several ways to consider government control. It is also to be able to listen to the whole answer and to understand that under certain circumstances, depending on the themes and the questions asked, a few more seconds would not be a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u79	Madam President, I can understand your argument. The opposition - and above all it - wants to hear the whole of the minister's response. In this case, I think the least I can do is to give Members extra time when they reply, because equal time must be respected. It's another way of working. And I think it would be even more clever to do so, because it gives the minister the opportunity to respond completely, as we sometimes expect, but it also offers parliamentarians a more comprehensive response.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u80	I hear you, but there is no consensus to increase speaking time. On the contrary, we want a little more dynamism. It is therefore necessary to speed up the movement and learn how to make better use of the time allotted, both on the parliamentary and the government side.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u81	The red light indicates that the speaker has twenty seconds to complete his last sentence. At that time one can say a rather long sentence. There are only two possibilities. Either one gives the chance to start at the end, when the zero is back on the countdown clock, on that last sentence. Some, such as the Minister of the Interior, have a particularly long life and are able to produce very long closing sentences of up to 40 seconds. Either we do and then you find yourself in a particularly difficult position, because then you have to judge the end of that last sentence and the beginning of a new sentence. Either you expect everyone to prepare their last sentence at the time when the countdown clock sprints on red. That is the most objective way, and I am not asking for benefits for Members of Parliament. I call for equal treatment between MPs and government members. It's the least we can expect.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u82	We shall continue with the legislative work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u83	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 2423: Hervé Rigot, Karin Jiroflée, Daniel Senesael, Laurence Zanchetta, Christophe Lacroix, Patrick Prévot - 1068: Hervé Rigot, Daniel Senesael, Eliane Tillieux, Patrick Prévot, Laurence Zanchetta, Christophe Lacroix - 2055: Sophie Rohonyi, François De Smet.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u84	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u85	Madam President, I have the impression that not many people are listening. That is why I refer to the written report on the very interesting debates we have had in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, giving a bag of your own blood to make others better is a gesture of civility, even of charity. Belgium is a country where blood collections are organized in a very beautiful and efficient way. One only has to look at how the Red Cross handles it. You can donate blood in fixed centres as well as in mobile centres. It is a very accessible way of contributing to society, even very low in costs when comparing it with other countries. In Belgium, a lot of blood comes from our own donors, and that is a good thing because of the high quality and safety of our blood products. Giving blood is an act of civility, to which everyone is invited, except when you are a man of men. Then you'll be asked to wait 12 months after the last sexual contact. Is that unfair? It looks like it. Why does the government dare so blatantly discriminate against this population? However, is it discrimination? If we take a closer look at who is not allowed to give blood or wait 12 months, it certainly doesn't turn out to be just gay men. Even if you come from a country where AIDS or hepatitis is common and if you live in Belgium for less than three months, you have to wait 12 months. That will also be if the sexual partner comes from a country where AIDS or hepatitis is common, if the sexual partner has ever injected drugs, etc. So it's not about fishing gay men, it's about a risk assessment based on statistics. When it comes to discrimination, it would be logical for homosexual women to have restrictions if they wanted to give blood, but there are no such restrictions. It is true that it is a question of risk assessment, it is a question of science, it is a question of proportionality. In blood donation, there are several parties to be taken into account: recipients, donors and those responsible for the transfusion chain. In doing so, the right of the recipients to obtain safe blood is a priority. Often these are weakened persons who are particularly vulnerable. We have to take that into account. They are the most important people in this story. I don't think anyone's gonna deny that. In addition, there is the obligation of the controller for the transfusion chain to ensure safe blood. Finally, there is the will of an individual to give blood. It is clear that the latter is of minor importance, however regrettable that may sound. This bill is based on the latest opinion of the Supreme Health Council but quotes rather selectively from the document. I would like to reiterate that it was also striking that this opinion was not published until March of this year by the High Health Council, when the text of the bill was already ready and referred to it earlier. Apparently, some had previously had access to the advice of the Supreme Health Council. I think it is acceptable at least to have reservations about this. The opinion therefore selected selectively. For example, there is no mention of the high prevalence of HIV in men who have sex with men, which is at least 6%, or of the increase in HIV prevalence in 2019. Although there was a sharp decline in 2020, this is due to the pandemic. The risk of HIV infection in a man who has sex with men with a fixed partner is estimated to be 50 times higher than in the heterosexual population. We also read in the opinion of the Dutch Health Council that Dutch research shows that it is often difficult for donors to assess their own risk or that they misjudge their partner's risk behaviour. More than a third of the MSM donors who were positive for HIV had a permanent relationship. It also appears that after intake talks with donors there is a large variability in the decision whether or not to allow certain donors. This indicates the importance of a specific training of medical professionals who conduct the intake interviews, but also shows that it is necessary to use comprehensive and explicit questionnaires. The High Health Council also makes it a point that additional difficulties have recently arisen in connection with the use of HIV inhibitors, the so-called PrEP and PEP, which hinder the detection of HIV in the blood. It is therefore a missed chance that this will not be included in the exclusion criteria. We will support Mr Fonck's amendment on this. It is wrongly stated in the bill that the Supreme Health Council recommends shortening the waiting period from 12 to 4 months. In his opinion, the Supreme Health Council does specify all the measures to be taken if a shorter waiting period is to be achieved. These are comprehensively adapted questionnaires, specific training for the physicians to interview the candidate donors and the organisation of targeted awareness-raising campaigns. However, we do not see all these accompanying measures coming back to this bill. There is no mention of all the things that are needed to ensure the safety of our blood products if we want to change the law. The advice of the Red Cross and the Royal Academy of Medicine were completely ignored. The Red Cross is asking us to wait until the legislation is amended until there is sufficient scientific basis. The increase in the number of cases of syphilis in the United Kingdom, where legislation has recently been relaxed, is also mentioned. Accompanying measures are also required to cover the additional costs incurred. They also refer to the need to specifically train medical staff and to comprehensive explicit questionnaires, which will have to be organised in protected areas. They ask themselves whether the mobile collections will still be possible at all when much more explicit questions are asked. Fixed donors may also drop out, which means that donors will be lost rather than won. All these things are unknown. All these things should be quantified or at least assessed if we are to maintain our blood supply. It would be really counterproductive if the number of blood donors were to be reduced rather than increased by this change of law. It would also be detrimental to our public health. In addition, the Red Cross rightly points to the introduction of discrimination with this proposal. Indeed, some groups, such as sex workers, will still have to wait 12 months from their last sexual contact, while the risk of HIV is lower than with MSM. The Royal Academy of Medicine also proposes to wait for more scientific data, which will be available in two years' time. Our request to hear patient associations has been dismissed. However, as recipients of blood and as vulnerable persons dependent on the transfusion chain, they do not seem to be an insignificant factor in this matter. The authors of the bill always refer to relaxations abroad, but it is overlooked that blood collections in other countries often take place in a very different way, so comparison is not possible. The Red Cross Flanders estimates the additional costs of all additional measures at 125 million euros. Additional costs, possibly also the abolition of mobile centres, the explicit questionnaires: the question is whether this will not jeopardise our blood supply, which is based on volunteers. It is clear to us that the current legislation, which excludes men who have had sex with men for 12 months from blood donation, is not a question of discrimination, but of a science-based principle of proportionality. If there were robust evidence that there was no higher risk for the recipients of blood, if it were clear that the additional costs and the specific organisation would not have a negative impact on the number of donors and on our blood supply, we would be willing to approve this legislative amendment. We would therefore like to table two amendments on this issue. A first amendment means that other people, who now also have to wait 12 months to give blood, will only have to wait 4 months. After all, it would be a real discrimination not to change anything for them when we do for gay men, because they are statistically much less likely to be HIV positive. These include sex workers, people with changing partners and donors whose partner has stayed in a risk area. With a second amendment, we want to guarantee the framework conditions so that blood cells can be organized safely and with sufficient funding after changing the waiting period. If both amendments are adopted, we will support this proposal. If we don't, we'll have to abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, every day people need blood, for example after an accident, surgery or childbirth. That blood comes from blood donors, men and women, young and old, who volunteer to give blood. In our country, giving blood is a voluntary, altruistic act. Not everyone can give blood, as Mrs Gijbels said, and that is also normal, because we want blood products to be safe, so that no infectious diseases are transmitted through blood donation, for example. I assume that everyone clearly puts safety first. In addition, we must also consider the availability of donors. Unfortunately, we regularly see shortages. Still too few people in our country give blood. Recently, early May, the Red Cross sent a message to Flanders because the blood supply in Flanders was alarmingly low. Normally the Red Cross has a supply for an entire working week, but at the beginning of May that was not even guaranteed. I therefore believe that we should ensure that people who want to give blood are given the opportunity to do so. As a blood donor, people should not be excluded if this is unfounded or not proportionate. Anyone who wants to verify whether he or she can give blood can complete a donor self-test online. Men who now answer yes to the question whether they have had sex with another man in the past 12 months will automatically receive the answer that they are excluded from blood donation, even if they are in a monogamous long-term relationship. In practice, this means that we homosexuals almost completely exclude blood. That is, for several reasons, not a good thing. This bill is an important first step. We reduce the waiting period or exclusion period for blood donation by men who have had sexual contact with a man from 12 to 4 months after the last sexual relationship. In the past, this category was even completely excluded from blood donation. Since 2017, they were no longer definitively excluded from giving blood, but a minimum waiting period of 12 months was used. In practice, we know that this means that homosexuals, even in a permanent relationship, are completely excluded from blood donation. The association çavaria, the Flemish defender of the lgbtqi, is very clear about this and states that the exclusion for twelve months, which in fact means complete exclusion for most men who have sex with men, is a traumatic and unjustified action. Twelve months is indeed very strict and very stigmatizing for the target group. The Inter-Federal Equal Opportunities Centre has also expressed its views on this issue. The draft law actually follows a ruling of the Constitutional Court in 2019, which stated that the twelve-month exclusion period was not justified. So there was a change in the law. For our group, the starting point has always been that we follow the scientific advice. There have been several scientific advices. Only we see that there is no clear advice. Some opinions advocate shortening the waiting period to four months, as laid down in the current legislative proposal. On the other hand, other opinions argue that the exclusion period for certain groups should be completely abandoned and call for a more individual risk approach. There are therefore several scientific opinions, all of which have the same aim in mind, namely to ensure the safety of the transfusion chain. The safety of the recipient should be paramount in changing the blood donation policy. At the moment, there is a majority, to follow the advice that proposes to shorten the deadline to four months. This means that four months at the moment is enough to ensure safety, for example in the field of HIV infection. We therefore support the legislative proposal, although it is no secret that our group Ecolo-Green believes that we should consider, in the short term, whether we should evolve into a system that evaluates individual behaviour for all blood donors. We see that many countries are already following that slope. More and more countries no longer apply the exclusion criteria of MSM. They move to other, less discriminatory criteria, to select. For example, France and the United Kingdom have already switched to more individualised risk approaches. Colleagues, in the future, taking into account scientific and epidemiological data, we must consider whether we can still adapt the conditions and move on to more individual risk analyses. Mrs Gijbels, you also refer to it in your amendment. At present, there are also other groups, such as sex workers or people with changing partners, which are excluded and which are also subject to deadlines. You yourself argue that these deadlines should be reduced, because you agree that a four-month reduction guarantees safety. After all, you indicate that you will support the legislative proposal if those deadlines are lifted. You will therefore agree that these four months guarantee safety. Increasing the safety of blood and blood derivatives from all donors requires a different way of working in the donor centres. We have already discussed in detail in committee the necessary adjustments to the intake interview and the questionnaire. We need to have the discussion with the stakeholders and the Red Cross. With this bill, we are taking a step in the right direction. The waiting period to give blood for men who have had sex with other men is drastically shortened. After all, we must not underestimate the fact that the current regime is perceived as discrimination. The existing stigma of certain groups based on their sexual orientation is maintained and that is unacceptable. Gay men are considered to be a homogeneous group with a similar risk profile, whereas in reality this is not the case. Not a person's sexual orientation, but sexual risk behaviour is the risk factor that can lead to unsafe blood donations. We can't be blind to that. We agree that the deadline will be shortened and we support the bill. However, we need to consider whether we can reconsider the exclusion of certain groups in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u88	Mr Rigot wishes to speak later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u89	Mrs Platteau referred to our amendment, in which we ask that if a decision is taken to reduce the waiting period from 12 months to 4 months, at least we should be consistent. What we do not think is logical is that while the criteria are being relaxed for a group that has been scientifically proven to be more likely to have HIV infection among its members, this does not happen for groups that we know are likely to have HIV infection among its members much lower. I think the odds are about a factor six lower. There is no logic in picking out one group and introducing a legislative change for it, while other groups, for which the risk is less if the waiting period is reduced, are not included. I also said that we would support this bill if our other amendment were to be adopted, namely providing accompanying measures. If we can guarantee that there is a sufficient budget for individual risk assessment, then we can agree to that. We are curious to see how we will vote later. If our amendments are supported, we are happy to go along with the whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already said in committee that the title of the resolution that led to this legislative proposal was a matter of concern to me. But look, the fear that a round of discrimination would be registered without taking into account reality was fortunately unjustified. Mr Rigot opened the discussion in committee with what was most important for our group, ensuring transfusion safety. On top of that, colleagues, for us of Flemish interest political correctness cannot be a factor in the patient's medical safety. We believe that this is where the colleague followed the right path. Giving blood is effectively not an absolute right. The rights of the patient must always and without exception take precedence over the rights of the blood donor. That is a principle in which everyone can agree or in which everyone should be able to agree. That is precisely why the Flemish Interest Group has had some difficulty with what we could read between the rules at some point, namely the implicit accusation to the Red Cross that, for reasons of discrimination, in particular because of homosexuality, the Red Cross would exclude people from blood donation. I am pleased that Mrs Rigot made that quite clear during the debates. The motivation of the Red Cross will be anything but discrimination against the LGBTQI community. That was never the case, it is not the case, and it will never be the case in the future. This can easily be demonstrated by the fact that lesbian women are allowed to give blood. The only rights that can play here are the rights of the patient. The only thing that matters is the patient's safety. If Parliament wants to take action on this dossier, it must be based on the rights and safety of the patient, then it must be based on science. That is why the Flemish Interest Group has attached importance to the opinions requested by the Committee on this bill. There was a whole suit. We have requested advice from the FAGG, Unia, Sciensano, Arc En Ciel, Sensoa, the High Health Council and so on. Several of these opinions call for more research and for the principle of caution to be applied. These are two things that the legislator cannot ignore. The Flemish Interest attaches particular importance to the advice of the Red Cross. The Red Cross is concerned, with reason, we believe. The Red Cross states that the principle of caution must be maintained until there is sufficient scientific evidence of the risk of infection. The Flemish interest is at least inclined to follow the Red Cross in that. If the Red Cross states that there has been no or too little consultation with the actors in the field, then Flemish interest is at least inclined to believe the Red Cross. If the Red Cross states that this bill represents a potential risk to the number of blood cells in general and to the mobile blood collections in particular, then we are at least asking questions about what is going on here. If the Red Cross says that doctors are too short for the introduction of this bill, then we all have to ask ourselves how this can be resolved in this House. If the Red Cross calculates that this proposal involves an additional cost of EUR 125 million on an annual basis, should there not be an alarm bell? We all know that no funds have been provided for this EUR 125 million. Ladies and gentlemen, I have not even mentioned all the reservations and criticisms of the Red Cross, but it is clear that the ill-thought-out implementation of this proposal ignores a whole series of practical objections and, more importantly, the precautionary principle. I have not yet discussed the fact that the adoption of this proposal could achieve the opposite of what it is intended to achieve, in particular a reduction in the number of blood donations and the emergence of new discrimination against a number of other groups in our society, as Mrs Gijbels said. Mr Rigot, I can assume that this cannot be the intention, but the basic principle of your proposal is noble. I do not think there can be any discussion on this. In fact, I'm sure of it. If there is any discrimination in selecting potential blood donors because of their sexual orientation, it must be clearly eliminated. I think, in fact, I am sure that there is no such discrimination, or at least not for the reasons you are suggesting in your proposal. Properness is beautiful, but in this file it cannot be an end in itself. It can never be an end in itself. Science and security must stand above political symbols. Science and security must be based on political correctness, for the simple reason that giving blood is not a right and certainly not an absolute right. In this dossier, despite the noble intentions, only the rights of the patient can be mentioned for the sake of the Flemish interest, because only the rights of the patient are absolute in this file. Our group will therefore abstain for these reasons, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u91	Madam President, as Mrs Platteau rightly said, the donation of blood is a voluntary act that can also be regarded as a citizen act. It's a public health act. It is essential that transfusions are as safe as possible. Of course, we are committed to the guarantee of transfusion safety. On the other hand, we know that lack of blood is a reality today, especially after the covid episodes where there has been a decrease in reserves. Measures must therefore be taken to increase the volume of blood available for transfusions, in particular for cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy, but also in conventional surgical procedures, which can sometimes result in post-operative bleeding. It is therefore important to work on this issue of transfusions. I will not hide from you that the Reform Movement is rather in favour of the total elimination of periods of exclusion. We believe that it is more logical to work on risk behaviours than on target groups. This formula is used successfully in France where accompanying measures and questionnaires are used to detect risky behaviour which would justify the refusal of the use of a blood donation which may not provide complete transfusion safety. But who would we consider that all the scientific advice that has been given to us would not have value and should not influence us? Of course, we take into account the opinions that have been requested even if these opinions are not unanimous. We could say, "Since they are not unanimous, what value do they have?" That's a question. However, the Academy of Medicine and the Red Cross are still quite reluctant to eliminate all periods of exclusion in the short term – I insist –. We believe that the proposal by our colleagues in the PS and Vooruit to reduce the period of exclusion from twelve to four months is a step in the right direction. A first step had already been taken in 2017 when we wanted to move towards the gradual elimination of all discrimination and stigma. Indeed, it can appear as a stigma and be perceived as such, which in itself is harmful. We will support this bill while taking the view that we will have to gradually move towards the total elimination of this exclusion period and opt for methods of accompanying, detecting risky behaviour rather than target groups. That seems more logical to us. We hope that the work will be put back on the job and that the situation will be assessed as soon as possible, taking account of what is being done at European level, and in the near future requesting a series of opinions, in particular from the Higher Council of Health, in order to move towards the end of any discrimination in this field.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u92	Colleagues, we all know that blood donations save lives and are therefore vital. My party therefore welcomes the fact that, with this bill, we are giving additional people who want to donate blood to help minimise deficits. The current exclusion period for blood donation for men having sex with men is 12 months. At the time this period was chosen from a health perspective and because it was not yet possible to assess the effect of easing the time limit on the safety of blood donation. Today, however, we have the opinion of the High Health Council which clearly states that easing the exclusion period from twelve to four months can be done safely. This is also happening in several other countries which have already opted for such relaxation. If a relaxation can be done in a safe manner and it does not pose a disproportionate risk to blood recipients, it is absolutely fair and self-evident for us to follow the High Health Council. On the other hand, we have also taken note of the concerns of, for example, the Red Cross and Sensoa about, inter alia, practical problems associated with easing. We therefore consider it very important to work with a long-term entry into force. The entry into force is scheduled for 1 July 2023, colleagues. So that's not tomorrow. In this way, everything can be done on the ground by blood establishments to comply with the new legislation. In a letter received from the Red Cross, they indicate, among other things, that this relaxation will require a great deal of additional budget given the accompanying measures. We also read this letter, Mrs. Gijbels. In order to minimise the risk of infection in the case of relaxation to four months, Flanders is only talking about an additional amount of 80 million euros. Today, however, we do not decide on the budget. There are still budgetary negotiations and I have already said in committee that we must pay sufficient attention to them. Individual genomic screening, more thorough questionnaires and calls and the transition from mobile to fixed collections are important. We therefore hope that sufficient attention will be paid to the necessary accompanying measures and that adequate account will be taken of them when drawing up the 2023 budget. We can all monitor this so that blood establishments can continue their very important and necessary work in a sufficiently qualitative and safe manner. A second important aspect in addition to the budget, referred to by Mr Rigot in his various statements, are the regular moments of evaluation and consultation. They have been incorporated into the legislation that has been in place for a long time since 5 June 1994. The Royal Decree of October 2018 also states that there is a biennial evaluation and annual consultation with all important institutions such as Health Care, the High Health Council, the blood establishments, Sciensano and the FAGG. I have every confidence in that. This periodic monitoring and evaluation remains very important to ensure maximum safety for the recipients of the blood. For CD&V, this principle of caution is particularly important. This is also a piece of legislation, and it is up to us to take this to heart, to look at the evaluations and to follow them up with the Minister, so that there are no disproportionate risks for the recipients of the donated blood. We have no doubt that the authorities concerned will continue to assume their responsibilities. In CD&V one finds a partner to give as many people as possible the chance to donate blood, but if this is scientifically substantiated and can be done safely. We will indeed have to provide for the accompanying measures and the budget. This principle was clearly supported by the proposers. I have already referred to Mr Rigot, who has stressed it several times in his speeches. That is why we support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u93	Madam President, I will start with a positive one. Of course, we are very pleased that legislation on the donation of blood for men who have sex with men is finally relaxed. This was really necessary because there is serious discrimination here. As a reminder, there are currently rules under which a person can be refused as a blood donor, and these rules are based on individual at-risk behaviour that exposes a person to a higher risk of contracting, for example, HIV - the AIDS virus. In this way, the objective is to ensure the safety of the blood, and this is naturally correct. However, these rules do not apply to men who have sex with men: men who have had sex with men in the last 12 months are not allowed to give their blood, even if they have a stable and monogamous relationship. This group is therefore rightly targeted and stigmatized by these rules. In practice, this simply leads these men not to give their blood. The Vivaldi parties today want to reduce this period of abstention from 12 to 4 months. With the PTB, we will of course support the relaxation of this legislation, since it is a relaxation. But, as I have already said, this relaxation is pure symbolism. In practice, this will make little difference. We do not think that many people will refrain from giving their blood. Would it be possible to stop laughing on liberal benches? Thank you. In practice, reducing the abstinence period from 12 to 4 months will not make much difference, especially if the men concerned have a stable relationship. There must be a minimum of realism. In addition, this symbol is directly missing its purpose, as the reference to men who have had sex with men remains in the law. They will still not be judged - in relation to the donation of blood, of course - on their individual behaviour at risk. Stigma and discrimination remain. Mrs Platteau, I do not really understand what you are saying. You say that the waiting period of 12 months is discriminatory, traumatising and stigmatizing. That's right, but that goes for a waiting period of four months, right? As far as we are concerned, we would rather delete the reference to men who have sex with men. This proposal was also on the committee table, but it was rejected by the majority and we find it surprising and regrettable. Indeed, Ecolo-Groen had seemed to make it a point of struggle in the weeks before Pride. I think it's useful to recall this sequence. On 26 April, the committee, which I also chair, decided to continue to work on the PS proposal, which Mr Rigot has put forward, which we are discussing today, and which proposes to shorten the period of abstinence. But there was also another proposal on the table, that of Mrs Rohonyi, de Défi - sorry to speak before you, ma'am, but you will still talk about it - which proposed to delete the reference to men having sex with men. The majority, including Ecolo, decided to follow up on the PS proposal. These are things that happen regularly in our committee, and in others. On the other hand, what was still surprising was that the same day, just after the commission, Mr.Moutquin proudly said on Twitter that the Ecolo-Groen group had tabled a bill. And what is in this bill? Exactly the same as in Défi's proposal, which the Ecolo-Groen group had swept away on the same day. But the desire for profiling as the Pride approached did not stop there, as it continued in the Senate. There was a resolution in the Senate on the donation of blood, and Ecolo proudly submitted an amendment to delete the reference to men having sex with men. All right! But the next day, this amendment was replaced by a new amendment by the majority, which postponed this deletion to the Greek calends. Colleagues from Ecolo, but I must also address Mr Bacquelaine and the Liberal Group - which I do not want to discriminate against - you had a second chance in committee on 10 May, since Mrs Rohonyi tabled an amendment with the same objective as her bill. But again, Vivaldi voted against, and Ecolo also. Unfortunately, the PTB was the only party in committee to support this amendment. There is therefore a third chance today, since Mrs Rohonyi has again tabled her amendment - and she has done well. If I talk so much about you, Mr Moutquin, and the Ecolo Group, it is because I find that, whether we support it or not, we still have to, at some point, be consistent in our actions. We need to be consistent. When you do a whole media ramdam, it's hard for me to accept it, and all the less so since the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities is from your party. This makes your position even more difficult. All right! The relaxation of the law that we are going to vote will result in additional costs for the Red Cross if it is to continue to ensure the safety of blood. The Flemish Red Cross estimated the cost of these accompanying measures for the whole country at EUR 125 million. However, we note that the recent budgetary adjustment has not yet released these funds. Therefore, we believe that it is essential to provide the Red Cross with sufficient resources, since the safety of blood is obviously paramount. We are also struck by the fact that the underlying problem is barely mentioned in this discussion, in such a way that no one has yet talked about it. I am, of course, thinking of the AIDS epidemic that is still under way in our country. Although the number of infections is decreasing, the 2020 statistics - which are the latest available - show that there are two new HIV diagnoses per day in Belgium. It's not nothing! That is the real underlying problem that we must tackle. We note that the population, in particular health-care providers, is sometimes still insufficiently informed about HIV and existing treatments. The stigma is still huge. According to Sensoa, 41 per cent of people living with HIV consider HIV to be the main obstacle to a better life. That is why we are advocating for a better awareness of doctors during their training. In addition, there are ways to combat HIV. I am thinking of pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP), which prevents the transmission of the virus. Since it was reimbursed by Medicare in 2017, its use has increased. By 2020, there were almost 4,000 users in our country. There is also post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP). The increase in the use of PrEP after repayment indicates that financial obstacles were present. They are probably not yet lifted, and certainly not at this time of economic crisis and purchasing power crisis. For this reason, we propose free PrEP and PPE, without any reimbursement, in order to combat the AIDS epidemic effectively - among other means.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u94	Madam President, I would like to respond quickly to my colleague from the PTB. Mr. Warmoes, have you seen the date of implementation of the bill that we tabled and that I did comment on Twitter, starting with thanking and congratulating the authors of the bill? It's July 1, 2024. Mr Rigot's bill is not that one. We are therefore quite consistent with everything that has been said by the majority partners, namely that this is a first step forward. And I would like to thank Mr Rigot again for taking this first step. New studies will come this year, including the largest study ever done in the United States that will be released in a few months. We are therefore totally consistent in tabling a bill that aims to bring the debate back to the table. I would also like to thank my colleague, Mrs Rohonyi, for having already tabled a bill. We can have a majority-opposition debate and a common text. On the other hand, what I'm upset about is your accusation about the desire to get out of hand. Mr Warmoes, I am concerned when, on the street, I see blood donation campaigns. I can't give my blood, Mr. Warmoes. You accuse me of profiling when I am concerned about the question and I am giving a prospect of going towards the total abolition of the abstinence period in the committee, by the majority and even the opposition, which I encourage to join in the coming months, in relation to new studies that have been commissioned and new opinions that will come out. It's not a profiling. It's my life, too, Mr. Warmoes! And it is in this context that I thank Mrs Jiroflée and Mr Rigot once again. That's what my tweet said. The perspective for ecologists – we will fight for, with you, I hope – is the total elimination of the abstinence period for homosexuals.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u95	You will understand, this fight will be with us. The question of being consistent is not a question of timing, for me, Mr. Moutquin. Do you find it normal, when one speaks of discrimination – you say yourself that you are discriminated against with many others – that this discrimination is allowed to persist for two years? This is what you do when you say your application date will be 2024. What guarantees do you have that what is not possible today will be possible in 2024, here, mathematically? Discrimination, if in addition to being Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, must be eliminated, and it is not two years to do so. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u96	Let us have a constructive debate! I would remind you, however, that the text has been debated in Parliament. That the Secretary of State has a position that she has already been able to express on the matter. Here we are well in parliamentary work. Many of us regret that we lack work as parliamentarians, or that we too have the opportunity to produce bills. So let's do it, and let's leave the Secretary of State's opinion on the side! I say it again, I'm consistent. We are consistent in the majority. I wish you a day in the majority, but discussions have indeed taken place. These gave the compromise – I know you don't like this word – because some parties wanted caution, and others wanted to wait for new studies that will come, and new opinions from the Higher Council of Health. We have in fact accepted these new opinions by giving a quick perspective to the total abolition of the abstinence period. This is not a political profiling. It's just a reminder of our position. This is the position shared by many people and we want to go towards this one. Again, I thank the PS, Mr. Rigot and Ms. Jiroflée for showing management. I think a two-year delay is reasonable in the sense that we will be discussing this issue of blood donation again for months. A lot of things have to be discussed again. You mentioned PrEP yourself. That question must indeed be discussed. Another possibility is emerging in the Netherlands for example and works very well, it is the post blood donation questionnaire. In the Netherlands, people are offered to answer a simple question after giving their blood. Do you think yes or no that your blood bag is a safe blood bag? These are solutions that are emerging in Canada, the Netherlands and Germany. We will also be able to legislate in the coming months and have debates in committee for an application in 2024. Here, I don't play the game of the majority versus the opposition. I think Ms. Rohonyi has the merit of having introduced this bill. I hope that we will be able to discuss it quickly and move towards the definitive removal of the abstinence period for HSH. We have been consistent in our communication. It is our role to talk to all those people who feel excluded – and I am part of it – and to give them a perspective. We are taking a step and we will move towards a more important step in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has already been said. I shall therefore confine myself to a few elements which are particularly important for Vooruit. The homosexual community has experienced the exclusion of blood for years as pure discrimination. People who are excluded in this way do not understand this, especially because this exclusion is not based on risk behaviour but on a specific sexual orientation. Of course, there is no risk group or population. There are only risk practices and they really should not be generalised. This is why Vooruit wants to emphasise very clearly that individual risk behaviour is different from a risk group. Let's be clear, for Forward, the safety first is when it comes to health care. I don't think that's much more than usual. However, it is constantly evolving in the scientific way in which blood tests are carried out and in which the safety of blood is guaranteed. So we must also work more and more with individual risk behaviour and not just exclude an entire group. Safety is more important than anything else. The High Health Council is also of that opinion, we have been able to read. I would like to say a few words about the figures that have flown around here about what it would cost to put into practice the proposal we are presenting here. I've heard all the numbers of 125 million. That's probably completely absurd. I also heard 80 million, 50 million and 15 million. I think Mrs Van Hoof is right, but we do not want this proposal to start immediately. It can't go in until 2023, so we have time to work this out in a good way. We can better detect and the prevalence is getting lower. We must move away from stigmatisation and it is therefore logical that we should propose that the waiting period be extended from 12 months to 4 months for the time being. I am pressing that word for the time being, because once this proposal comes into effect, we must try to evaluate it in the very short term. That's possible, too. In a number of European countries this deadline has already fallen completely, for example in the United Kingdom and France. We know that these countries are going to make an evaluation in the short term. So we can learn from that very quickly. For Vooruit this is not the end point, for us this is a start to achieve a complete equality of the homosexual community in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u98	Madam President, I would like to intervene. Mrs Jiroflée indicated that she heard all kinds of amounts here. Well, those amounts are the amounts calculated by the Red Cross Flanders, namely 80 million for Flanders and 125 million for Belgium. She said that these amounts are unrealistic. How much is the amount? Do you know, Mrs. Jiroflée? I would like to know because the cost determines the feasibility, and that feasibility is crucial to maintain our blood supply. Something that's priceless or unfeasible, I don't like to sign for it. If you do, it says more about you than about us. I think it is a great punishment that the figures quoted by the collection centre that collects the most blood in this country are dismissed as unrealistic, when you do not seem to know how high the cost is.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u99	The last figure we heard from the Red Cross was an estimate. It was in 15 million. So I'm assuming the rest are Indian stories. But apart from that...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u100	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u101	Yes, I do. We have indeed received an opinion with this very high figure, but I also have a summary of the Red Cross which mentions the amount of 15 million. That is why I suggest that we should take our time to discuss this with the Red Cross and to find a good way of working.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u102	Mr Jiroflée, I have to admit that I can still follow the motivations of my fellow Members to support the legislative proposal. We might be a little more careful. In your explanatory statement you highlight the principle of safety first, by analogy with a well-known Flemish television series in which some Limburgers play along. Then you say that it is only a preliminary introduction and that an evaluation will be carried out as soon as possible. To me that sounds a bit like playing Russian roulette with the health of the receiving party of a blood donation. Actually, you're hoping it's going well, but since you're not sure, you'll evaluate it afterwards. In my explanatory statement, I advocated the principle of caution, which the High Health Council also advocated, along with a number of other opinions, and certainly also the Red Cross. The principle of caution must be demonstrated until you have more scientific evidence. If that evidence shows that there is no problem and that there is no need for a waiting period at all, then I stand with you and perhaps even more colleagues in the first row in order to abolish the waiting period. With what you're proposing, the cart gets tense in front of the horse, I find personally. Our group would have thought it more logical to collect science first and then, on the basis of science, to put the conclusions into a legislative text. That seems to me to be the most logical, healthy way of doing things. That is why we will abstain from voting on the legislative proposal. Mr Rigot has assured us that he is not accusing the Red Cross of discrimination. There is an exclusion for blood donation for men who have sex with men. This exclusion is based on data collected by the Red Cross on the basis of its experience and studies. So the Red Cross draws a conclusion based on science, in our opinion, the only proper way of working. If the legislative proposal had also been based on science, I think N-VA and Flemish Interest would have liked to support the proposal. It amounts to the need for sufficient scientific evidence to introduce the proposal. Your statement worried me, because you say safety first first and then announce that you want to look at it as soon as possible to evaluate it, then the proposal will continue if it is right and what will be corrected if necessary. With all due respect, I don't care whose blood I get when I need it, but I would like the risk that the blood has an infection to be as small as possible. That's what this is about. It's not about excluding people because of their sexual preference. That would be awesome in itself. It's about probability and opportunity, which are two different things, by the way. It's about probability, which is risk behavior that there's likely to be within a particular group. Those are statistical data. I can't help it. There's nothing anyone can do about that. But that's what this is about. It's not so much about not letting someone give blood because he's gay. That's not the long distance of the whole story. That is not the basis on which the Red Cross bases itself, to make that exclusion. We must make some statistical studies and do some statistics. After all, things are getting mixed up here, such as cause and effect. There are a few points I'm having a hard time with. Madam President, that's what I'm talking about. Let's get the obvious first. Take the conclusions from that. Pour all that into a piece of legislation after that. Now, however, things are happening in a confusing order. That's my argument.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u103	Madam President, I am not guessing at all that it is going well. I'm sure it's going well or it's going well. Is the High Health Council's advice a piece of paper? Isn't that being taken into account anymore? A number of other European countries are working on this. They even go far beyond what we are proposing here. We are indeed in favour of the principle of caution. The only thing I would like to say is that, if we go further, we will have to improve the proposal and exclude even more discrimination, we will have to take into account what we see in the years to come, and we will also have to look abroad at the same time. Is that so crazy? What's unscientific about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, if I would like to address you from this rostrum and not from my seat, it is because the vote that will take place just now should have been historic. We could have voted for an end to stigmatizing and unjustified discrimination that still constitutes the impossibility for homosexual men to give their blood unless they have observed a period of sexual abstinence of one year. This discrimination is particularly unbearable for two main reasons. First, it exacerbates the blood shortage currently recorded and constantly aggravated in Belgium, while blood is crucial to saving lives. Secondly, it feeds an amalgam that dates back to the early 1980s – I had not yet been born – at the time of the outbreak of the AIDS epidemic and when the vast majority of cases were recorded in homosexual men. At the time, scientific knowledge of the causes of this disease was very limited. Over the years, through our knowledge and scientific progress, this amalgam has become totally unjustified and unjustifiable. Thus, in 2015, the Court of Justice of the European Union finally called on each State, including Belgium, to assess the exclusion of homosexuals from blood donation, in the light of the epidemiological and scientific knowledge of the time and not of the 1980s. It was this decision that allowed our country to amend its legislation, in 2017, to move from the pure and simple exclusion of homosexual men from the donation of blood to the authorization to donate their blood, provided that they observe a period of sexual abstinence of twelve months. At the time, we had all, in any case our parties, supported this measure, while stressing the particularly stigmatizing and otherwise uncontrollable nature of this sexual abstinence, including the PS, Ecolo and the MR, who today, however, defend this same sexual abstinence. In particular, I remember Ecolo, who rightly stated that asking someone not to have sex with someone else for 12 months was illusory. I therefore have to ask you the following question, ladies and gentlemen: do you really think today that observing a period of sexual abstinence of four months instead of twelve is less illusory? Do you really think homosexuals are going to say tomorrow "Chic! I must no longer wait and observe a period of sexual abstinence of twelve months but four!" I would like to remove any doubt about this question by inviting you, first of all, to talk to the first concerned, but also – if not already – to read the carte blanche which was published no later than this morning by fifteen associations active either in the defence of the rights of LGBTQIA+, or in the prevention of AIDS. These associations all ask you now not to exclude donors solely on the basis of their sexual orientation. Today, I have listened to all of you and, without surprise, you have tried to justify yourself again by taking refuge behind science, that is to say, the opinions we have actually received in the Committee on Health. Except that the truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that you are only finally getting what's right for you. At least what suits your government, since we know it very well, what prevented a real breakthrough here in this matter was the veto by certain parties of the majority of Vivaldi, as every time it comes to deciding an ethical question. Because, contrary to what you say, there is no scientific unanimity here as to the so-called justification for excluding homosexuals from the blood donation, whether it be twelve or four months, that does not change anything. Why? Because it is worth recalling, ladies and gentlemen, that four of the eight experts of the Higher Council of Health, who gave their opinion on this subject to the committee, felt that removing this famous HSH criterion should be possible in the short term, subject to consultation of the players in the sector but also to the necessary adaptations to the questionnaire and pre-donation interviews. According to the same experts, these measures tend to ensure a high level of safety in the transfusion chain and, consequently, to remove any contraindications, even temporary ones. On the other hand, the States that have lifted this exclusion, namely Spain, Italy, Portugal, the United Kingdom, Canada, South Africa, Argentina, Mexico, Brazil and even more recently France, are not irresponsible. It's not mad men who got up one morning to say, "We're going to lift this discrimination." They did not have to wait for this famous study, which Mr Moutquin mentioned, to say to themselves: "We must indeed wait for this study in order to be able to take this step." This has enabled the French Director General of Health, Jérôme Salomon, to confirm that the extreme vigilance of the health authorities allows today a change in the conditions of access to the donation of blood. Moreover, this health security has been demonstrated since there were no outbreaks of transfused blood contamination in these countries. Why? Because they did what the four experts of the Higher Council of Health I mentioned today asked us to do, namely to accompany the end of this exclusion with preventive measures, which was finally the common sense. This is why France was able to add two questions to the pre-donation questionnaire to clarify that taking pre- or post-exposure treatment with HIV leads to an adjournment of the candidate. This is also the subject of one of the amendments on which we will have to take a decision earlier. This is already in effect in our country. The United Kingdom has also thoroughly reformed the pre-donation questionnaire using the four blood transfusion services in that country with a new questionnaire which has the merit of not being discriminating and which, at the same time, makes it possible to filter donors on the basis of the risks they would have actually taken and not of the risks assumed and linked only to their sexual orientation. It has also been seen that these measures were introduced in Argentina almost seven years ago. The Argentine Health Council has rightly noted that the lifting of this exclusion has made it possible to maintain safety without any significant change in HIV, as with other STIs. Secondly, as the Red Cross pointed out in its opinion, the quality of blood is systematically checked before any transfusion in order to verify the possible presence of syphilis, HIV or hepatitis B and C. This has also been confirmed by the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products or by the Supreme Council of Health according to which "the risk of HIV transmission by transfusion has now reached such a low level in Belgium that it no longer seems legitimate to justify a special temporary postponement for donors having sex with men". Ladies and gentlemen, it is also curious to cut you behind science to justify a period of sexual abstinence which is well known that it will be impossible to verify and which is, by essence, ridiculous. In concrete terms, how do you intend to verify that blood donors who have the honesty to come out, to say that they are homosexuals, have actually observed a four-month period of sexual abstinence? I was talking about it this afternoon with Professor Nathan Clumeck, Head of the Department of Infectious Diseases at CHU Saint-Pierre, Emeritus Professor of Infectious Diseases at ULB and an infectiousologist who has been working on the issue of AIDS since its appearance more than forty years ago. He wanted to send you this message: to propose a measure that cannot be controlled by its realization has no meaning but to give himself good conscience. Finally, if the last opinion of the Red Cross is in fact not in favour of the end of this exclusion, it is not, contrary to what some have said, for scientific reasons, since it reproduces the proposal of the four experts of the Higher Health Council to include the end of the exclusion of additional measures. But he does it for budgetary reasons. The representative of Vlaams Belang referred to it. He then pointed out that these additional measures would indeed have an excessive budgetary cost of around EUR 50 million. At least that's his opinion. This is indeed reflected in the opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that you are quoting me, but you must do so correctly. My point was not that the amount is too high, but that there is no provision for a budget to cover the 125 million. I did not say that the amount is too high and that is why we do not do it. That wasn't my point.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u106	Mr Creyelman, I did not understand you correctly. Could you repeat it for me, please?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u107	My point was not that the 125 million is too high and that is why we are not doing it. My point was that the accompanying measures will cost 125 million, but that 125 million is not yet foreseen. That was the point of the High Health Council and the Red Cross. At the moment they do not have the money to provide these accompanying measures. So my point is not that it is too expensive and that we do not do it, but that the money is not there. Now what?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u108	Mr. Creyelman, it's my fault. I didn't express myself well. I wasn't quoting you. I was quoting the opinion of the Red Cross, which was given and which mentioned the figure of EUR 50 million. For the rest, the question of allocating a budget to finance these measures, I am not a representative of the government, let alone the opposition. My question, therefore, was precisely to my colleagues in the majority, asking them what they have done to unblock this budget rather than to remain in an attentist position and hoping that we will one day have this budget in order to be able to put these measures in place. My point was simply to say that, as a representative of the Vlaams Belang, you were particularly sensitive to the budget question, whereas the essential thing here is to put an end to discrimination regardless of the price, because simply excluding homosexual men from the donation of blood, as we do today, also has a cost, a human cost. It is a social cost to which we should all be sensitive. For the rest, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we must draw all the lessons from the opinions we have received and which must be taken into account, but by providing for additional measures to ensure the quality of blood and even to strengthen it. And, with such measures, we must not maintain a measure as stigmatizing, drastic and radical as the pure and simple exclusion of homosexual men, regardless of its duration. Whether it is for four, eight or twelve months, stigma and ineffectiveness remain the same. As I said to our colleague earlier, the question is whether the government intends to release a budget to fund these measures so that we can actually increase the number of pockets available in our country today. It is also to be borne in mind that in your draft law, ladies and gentlemen, you have provided for the entry into force of this text not from 1 July 2022 but from 1 July 2023. We would have had all the time, if we really had the political will, to find, put in place and finance these measures so that they could be implemented. Of two things, either you failed to make this essential request to the Minister of Health or the Minister of Health, who would have received it, rejected it. In both cases, this is unacceptable! Indeed, discrimination is not maintained in the name of purely budgetary or logistical considerations - and this is covered by scientific arguments. Nor should we forget that the shortage of blood has also worsened and that its social and human cost is high. The other big argument you came back to today is that there is no right to give blood:safety first! That's right. However, alongside this non-right, there is one right: that of not being discriminated against. However, homosexuals are discriminated against because of their gender and sexual orientation, which are, however, criteria that are particularly well protected by human rights. It is for this reason that any difference in treatment must be scrupulously justified - which you do not do. As the Equality Law Clinic of the Faculty of Law of the ULB pointed out in another white card - published the day after our vote in the Health Committee - the real question that ultimately arises today, and that you have taken care to conceal, is whether this discrimination of treatment that you maintain is proportionate to the objective pursued. But it turns out that the Equality Law makes it an analysis for you, on the basis of the opinions that are so dear to you. I must read his conclusion: "The Supreme Council of Health recalls that HIV incidence and prevalence rates are high among homosexuals. A temporary contraindication to blood donation is thus likely to reduce the risk of contracting serious infectious diseases transmitted by blood. But this is not enough. It is up to the federal legislator to demonstrate that the objective of public health protection cannot be achieved by adopting measures that are less infringing on the human rights and rights of these homosexual men." Moreover, this prevalence, on which my colleague from the N-VA, among homosexual men, has returned, is not found among the donor candidates who, in the vast majority, are regular donors of a certain age, but also donors in pairs. This shows well, as Pr. Clumeck that I had the opportunity to have on the phone earlier, that when we give his blood, it's because we're responsible. Mr Bacquelaine rightly insisted earlier on the fact that giving blood is a citizen act. We are not going to engage in risky sexual behaviour one day for, the following week, to report to the Red Cross to give blood. No! That is why, as I said, measures less infringing on the fundamental rights of homosexual men, i.e. alternative health prevention measures, have been adopted by all the countries that have put an end to this exclusion, including France, which has been cited as an example in your bill. So today, by refusing to adopt these measures, you are isolating our country in this matter. Mr Rigot seems to be very attentive to this serious situation. I see him. What I'm adding is important. These are things that I have not had the opportunity to say in committee, hence the length of my speech. But this is an extremely important public health issue. You'll agree. Thank you. As the Equality Law Clinic adds: "These properly calibrated measures would allow gay men, especially gay and bi men, to get rid of the stigma of gay cancer that historically sticks to their skin. Giving blood is an essential act of social belonging. Allowing homosexual men to participate in this solidarity would alleviate the feelings of exclusion, guilt and shame experienced by many of these people in the most intimate sphere of their privacy. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we had all the levers in hand to put an end to these discriminations, while at the same time ensuring the quality of the transfused blood and therefore the safety of the recipients we all care about. But instead, you present your text as a progressive step, as a first step, when it only perpetuates a discrimination that you have so much criticized. A step-by-step step in the white card, which has been published by fifteen associations and by which they express their total disagreement about your strategy, that of the "step by step", considering that it is, on the contrary, necessary to rely on individual sexual at-risk behaviour, and this, from now on. This strategy is only a lure from the moment when none of you has been able to tell me, neither today in plenary nor in committee, what are the famous scientific data that we are lacking today but which we would have in a few years, in the near future, to move on to the next fundamental stage, namely to put an end to this discrimination. You are talking to us today about a step-by-step strategy, but we are forced to see that you are acting, in fact, behind our neighbouring countries. It is beautiful to defend the rights of LGBT people by marching to the Pride – which claimed the end of all discriminations, including those related to the donation of blood – it is nice to tell us that your government is strongly committed to discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, which Belgium has always, and therefore still today, pioneered in LGBTQIA+, it is nice to applaud the speech of the associations in the peristyle of the House on the occasion of the World Day against Homophobia, while, finally, a few days later, you are voting this bill. What are these acts worth? What these words are worth if you then consider homosexual men as people who would necessarily have risky sexual behaviour, who would necessarily be unable to have a stable and responsible sexuality, who would necessarily be more likely to have STDs, regardless of the stability of their couple, regardless of their screening – which is more, regular – of STDs, that they would necessarily not answer honestly the pre-donation questionnaire and would therefore necessarily be irresponsible. As explained on social media Adam, a young student from Brussels revolted by your text, this reduction is a slap that only confirms the stereotypes of gays who are dirty, unfaithful and at risk. People are not at risk, behaviours are. This feeling is shared by many homosexuals, including Sébastien, who wrote to me last night in view of today's vote. I would like to quote: "This reduction amounts to perpetuating the exclusion of an entire community, a community of which I have been a part since my coming out seven years ago. Some old beliefs remain firmly rooted in mindsets and the law. If, at the time of drafting this legislation, I could understand the concerns of some of us about our lack of knowledge about sexually transmitted diseases, particularly AIDS, today, I cannot conceive of it. For what good reason, today, in Belgium, in 2021, a stable and healthy couple of men, could not make this citizen and altruistic gesture, which is the donation of blood, when it can, on the other side of the border. Why do we trust straight people and not me?" It turns out that limiting the period of abstinence to four months rather than simply abandoning it, that is everything except progress, that is everything except progressism. That is why we re-tabled our amendment that transposes our bill introduced a year ago with a view to completely eliminating this period of sexual abstinence towards homosexual men alone. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore call on you to come together and support it in a way that is consistent with your convictions. I was just rereading the motion for a resolution of the PS, listening to Mr Bacquelaine, I was rereading the proposal for a law of Ecolo. Our will is the same. I invite you to support this amendment because you have deep convictions aimed at putting an end to this discrimination. We could understand that the Vlaams Belang is against this advance but not you. If you do not support our amendment, we will be obliged to abstain from this text because we cannot maintain this ridiculous period of twelve months of sexual abstinence, but also because we cannot condone the continuation of discrimination, of an amalgam which is not justified by science and which is not worthy of the progress that you claim.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that sexual orientation cannot under any circumstances be a criterion for excluding blood donation. Fortunately, I hear that many of us share this position. Yet, it is true that discrimination still strikes, today, homosexual and bisexual men who must observe a period of abstinence one year after their last sexual intercourse with a man before they can give their blood. We Socialists, for more than ten years now, have been taking initiatives to put an end to this discrimination. Thus, already in 2010, Laurette Onkelinx, then Minister of Health, wanted to put an end to this difference in treatment. She pleaded the cause at the European level. Unfortunately, it did not succeed because at the time it was not possible. In 2015, a text to eliminate this discrimination was tabled for the first time in Parliament, notably by my colleagues Daniel Senesael and Christophe Lacroix. In 2019, we resubmitted this text. We have made it a priority. We have imposed its discussion in the Committee on Health and in plenary. Don't be mistaken, our objective - as I said and I repeat - is to remove the time limit for abstinence and to put an end to this exclusion and stigma that cannot exist. But there are realities that are needed and that I will develop in a few moments. Today we are going to vote on a bill that I tabled in January, in particular with my colleague Karine Jiroflée from the Vooruit Group, who is following an opinion delivered in particular by the Higher Council of Health. All members of the Health Committee received this opinion last November. I heard earlier that we only received it in March. It is true that the official opinion was communicated in March, but the opinion was communicated to the committee in November. Therefore, we did not file a text without knowing the opinions, but with knowledge of the facts. It is true that the text you are going to vote on does not yet put an end to this discrimination. But we demand a real breakthrough. Mrs Rohonyi, Mr Warmoes, this text is indeed an important step towards the total elimination of the exclusion period. I remind you that five years ago homosexuals could not simply give their blood. They were totally excluded. Then, Ms De Block made a first step forward in 2017. The blood donation door was opened to HSH and allowed to give their blood for a 12-month period of exclusion. We were then in opposition. At the time, remember, we supported this text, even if we wanted to go further, we supported it because it was a step forward, and we acknowledged that it was a step forward. And we said right away that we would come back to the charge because for us, and our speech does not change, it is the sexual practices that must determine whether or not one can give his blood, and not the sexual orientations. That was our position yesterday, it's still our position today. So, of course, some people are going to ask us or are wondering why they have not gone further in this bill and have not removed any time-limits for exclusion. But you have heard it from all the speakers, simply because the various opinions that have been presented to us do not allow us to do so. Among those who took the time to read the opinions of the Red Cross, Rainbow Wallonia, the Higher Council of Health or the Royal Academy of Medicine, who can say that a consensus emerges from these opinions? No one! There is no consensus on opinions. Who can today say in this House that there can be a majority to simply remove the exclusion period from the reading of these opinions? There is none, and you have heard it, there is none! However, it must be acknowledged that most of these opinions consider that the conditions are not met to remove this period of exclusion. Yes, the Rainbow Prism Federation believes that the exclusion period should simply be eliminated, but others - such as Sensoa - invite stakeholders to think carefully about this balance between the issue of non-discrimination and that of public health, while considering that questioning the sexual practices of all donor candidates poses a higher risk to the safety of blood banks and could also lead to a loss of donors that will not be compensated by the very small potential increase in blood donations from HSH. There is also the Red Cross, which was discussed earlier, and the Royal Academy of Medicine, which indicated that they objected to any change in the deadline. For them, it must be the status quo. The Red Cross believes that it is still difficult to select donors solely on sexual behaviour because even in HSH who report being in a monogamous relationship, the infectious risk is significantly higher than in the rest of the population. As for the introduction of an individual evaluation, according to the Red Cross, and as was also mentioned earlier, several speakers said, this would result in very high costs. So we have an opposition from the main actors on the ground that I understand. I can understand some fears, but I also want to tell these actors on the ground that scientific evidence shows that things are changing and must continue to evolve. The necessary adjustments and measures will have to be taken in the future. The other opinion that has also been discussed at length is that of the Higher Health Council. I hear different interpretations. However, the opinion is clear: "With regard to screening techniques and the precautionary principle, the CSS is shared on the flexibility measures to be taken." I repeat briefly: four are against the immediate lifting of the criteria for the ineligibility of HSH. What do the other four say? They do not say they are in favour of it; they say that this exclusion goal "must be possible in the short term". That's what we want to do! They put conditions in place to do so. There must be consultation with actors, professional organizations, recipients must be protected, individual genomic screenings must be put in place for all transfusion establishments. They also say that the introduction of such testing will also have to be evaluated economically in view of the very high price of tests and devices. On the other hand, what they all say is that today we can actually consider that the 12-month period is meaningless and that the 4-month period offers sufficient guarantees to recipients and that is important. This is the point of convergence of experts. These experts, the Red Cross, the CSS, also spoke of cost. This question of cost has come back to the table several times, but here I want to be clear. We can understand a lot of arguments, but for my group, the elimination of any form of discrimination cannot be linked to financial considerations. It will be necessary to move forward, regardless of the financial cost, in order to put an end to these discriminations. There's no way money can stop us from fighting this fight! Dear colleague, is that the outcome I was hoping for? No! I would have hoped for a unanimity of positive opinions and I would have hoped that the Higher Council of Health would allow us to move forward and put an end to this restriction, but we cannot, for the moment, do so or go to the end of our fight. So, what do we do? We stay here, and nothing changes, or do we take the opportunity to make progress? Some remain in the posture and opt for the status quo, continuing to impose this 12-month exclusion period. I have gay friends and I've heard them too. Of course, they too want to end discrimination. And what did they tell me? They are well aware that, for the time being, there is no majority to achieve this and that reducing the duration from twelve to four months is already a step forward. It's important to say it! There's not only one way to see things, but many. Homosexual friends, believe me, have told me this. Madam President, Mrs Rohonyi wishes to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u110	Mr Rigot, when I asked you questions, I was hoping that you could use them to answer them. Unfortunately, instead, I hear the speech you have already made in committee. You tell us that you are relying on opinions which, for the moment, do not allow you to achieve the end of this discrimination, as we all want. In this case, why do you think that you have such eyes and content yourself with the only opinions that we have heard in committee? Why not look at the studies that other countries have used to move forward? I don't know. For the rest, you rely on several opinions, including that of the Higher Council of Health, and you do well to remember that it is shared. In particular, it envisages the end of this exclusion, subject to certain conditions. Why not take advantage of our debate in committee to examine them instead of simply sweeping them away? There was no discussion of these preventive measures. None! The only answer you give us is that they would be too expensive and that we do not have enough money to get rid of this discrimination. But have you at least taken the initiative of soliciting this money from the Minister of Health or do you consider it likely to be one, two or three years from now? What would eventually change at that time?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u111	Mrs Rohonyi, I will go back to some elements, including the methodology used in the Committee on Health. At the time, we had two texts with you and me. Initially, we chose the same method of asking for written opinions. You were able to solicit these written opinions as much as the other groups and myself. When you say that some opinions are not present, did you ask for them but not get them or did you not ask for them? I, the opinions I have sought, have obtained them and it is on these opinions that I am basing myself on today. I hear you don't want us to stop the debate on these opinions, but he's crazy enough to hear you say I'm taking what's right here. No! What would help me would be to scan the opinion of the CSS, Mrs Rohonyi, as well, because I want to get to zero. Believe me! This is what I would do now; I would scan the opinion of the CSS. That's what you're doing, but I can't resolve to do it. I would remind you that the matter is being debated in the Committee on Public Health. The best evidence is that every time you and I, as well as other colleagues, tabled questions about the donation of blood from homosexuals, the reference who answered these questions was the Minister of Health. So there is a question of health. Therefore, if we are in a health issue, which is not just a health issue but also a question of discrimination, we cannot deny the opinions that come from the highest health council, the one that advises us in all actions. On the other hand, I remind you that every time there were decisions during the covid crisis, you have always pointed the finger at the government saying that it had to respect the advice of the Superior Council and the experts. Today, however, you are telling me that these opinions should be swept away. I will not do that! I'm so sorry. I am pleased to have a positive opinion and to eliminate this discrimination. But, as it stands, I don't have it and, as it stands, you don't have a majority and I wouldn't have it either if I were to sweep these opinions away.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u112	Madam President, I cannot accept the caricatureal vision of our position. Mr Rigot, there is no question here of sweeping these opinions, but, on the contrary, of studying the avenues for solutions that are proposed to us through these opinions. Finally, that is the great regret I have over this debate. At no time have we studied these leads. As far as I am concerned, I am not sweeping the opinions, but, as far as you are concerned, you are sweeping these avenues of solutions. That is why it is regrettable. Finally, you're talking about your homosexual friends who understand the difficulty we're in today. Are they really ready to observe a period of abstinence of four months to be able to give their blood? Does this really change anything compared to the current 12-month period of sexual abstinence? That's a real question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u113	Mrs Rohonyi, I just come back to one element. It's not a symbol for us. It's a step forward, a step forward. There will be one in a few hours when we vote. This is important. I respect your position because we have the same objective: to eliminate this discrimination. But we chose two different methods. You said, "Let's go all the way now. It goes by or it breaks." Now, you have heard it: if you follow your method, it breaks. I chose another tactic: what can be won today is won. It's a step forward. We did the same thing in 2017. We've had a first step. We have another one now. You're telling me that's not right. However, when other countries, such as France and the United Kingdom, also chose to go through this transitional period, they were applauded by many members of the House of Representatives. I am convinced that you also found at the time that this was an excellent step forward. I can search; I'll find it. You thought it was a great step forward, but here, it's not a step forward. I don't understand that. If this is a step forward and we apply the same method, I am sure that we will at some point reach the same result. In the meantime, I would point out – and this has been mentioned by other colleagues on several occasions – that Article 13 of the Act of 5 July 1994 provides for an assessment of the criteria every two years. Therefore, at the end of this in-depth evaluation, there may be recommendations. We can also change the deal, correct the shot, and adjust things, I hope, faster than expected. Then I will simply say that in my arguments concerning the Higher Council of Health, I have refuted the financial argument. I told you in my presentation. For the PS, there is no question of hindering an essential step forward for financial and economic reasons. This will not happen! After this exchange, I return to my text. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we have often been at the forefront of the fight against discrimination. And it is also true that here we are clearly lagging behind. We've got a famous train late. I absolutely agree with you, Mrs. Rohonyi. It is therefore time to work to ensure that these exclusion criteria for gay and bisexual men disappear as quickly as possible. And here I make a clear appeal to everyone to get there, and certainly to the actors on the ground. These exclusion criteria for men must be lifted. How? Let everyone work! This will be made possible in the time that we agree with our proposal. Everyone has to get to work, follow the CSS recommendations, try to put all of this in place, try to work on pre-donation questionnaires and interviews, and work on training physicians to discuss sexual intercourse issues with donors and, if necessary, the implementation of individualized testing. We have to work on it, since the experts say it themselves: it is possible if we reach these conditions. Let's work to get to those conditions. I'll be right with you. For the future, we must do so. And then, with our proposal, the actors on the ground also have time to consult, to adapt to this new legislation. We also expect them to have a vision of the future; that some actors on the ground do not remain firmly blocked on the current situation. It is important that blood donation criteria continue to be assessed annually, in accordance with the legislation and the latest scientific data, while taking into account foreign experiences. I agree with you that we must take this into account. But not everything can be transposed. As other speakers have said, models in other countries are also, at some point, going through transitional phases. These countries have their own models, which are not necessarily our models today. We cannot say that it is enough. No, we must also take into account our realities. The next step that will be taken – I have little doubt about the issue, and I really have the hope and determination to do so with my group – is that only risky behaviours, whether they are practised by heterosexuals, homosexuals or bisexuals, are excluded from blood donation. It's an appointment clause I'm giving you today. I know we're taking a step forward. It is not the greatest but it is the last step before the big step that will put an end to this discrimination. Colleagues, today, either you choose the status quo – you vote against or you abstain – or you choose to move forward with us, to take a further step. I believe that this is where a solid majority can be obtained with all of you if you consider that making this choice is a step forward for all men who have been suffering from this discrimination for too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u114	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u115	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2423/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2423/1) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u116	• 6 years old Frieda Gijbels cs (2423/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u117	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u118	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Van Bossuyt, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we can approve an important agreement today. Mr Vice Prime Minister, the pre-clearance agreement was signed three days before the start of the Vivaldi government. The agreement was negotiated by Mr Jambon in 2016. I've been working on that myself. As an elected candidate for the Flemish-Brabant constituency, I am extremely interested in everything that has to do with Zaventem airport. My heart for aviation and aviation personnel also plays a role in this. I will deal with this later. Anyone who has ever taken a plane to the United States knows that it is often bad cherries in American airports when it comes to migration and customs controls. There are very long queues and even as a VIP one has to wait a long time. As an ordinary citizen, one often has to wait hours. When one arrives at Washington Dulles International Airport in Washington D.C., John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York or at another major American airport, one is still a few hours sweet before one gets access to the country. Everyone knows someone in his circle of acquaintance who has experience with that. I know not everyone travels there often, but I'm talking about the group that does. Belgium is the first country in Europe to have a pre-clearance agreement. This means, in concrete terms, that people who want to travel to the United States in Zaventem, the only Belgian airport with flights to America, must already undergo migration and customs controls here. It is often said that someone flying to the United States should be at the airport three hours in advance. Maybe that person should be at the airport four hours in advance to make sure everything is okay, but that person always wins many hours. Usually that person has to wait two or three hours when he lands there. This gives us a very strong competitive advantage at all other airports. I am glad that I have been able to contribute to this, together with Mr Jambon and the people afterwards. This is a really good thing for our airport. We come from evil times, with corona, the attacks, the war in Ukraine and the bankruptcy of Sabena at the time. The airport community has already experienced a lot in Zaventem and this is really good news. The N-VA Group will therefore be happy to vote in favour of this bill and these treaties. I am rather concerned with NATO and strongly believe in the alliance between the United States and Canada and the other side of the Atlantic, namely Europe but also Turkey and a number of northern states. That doesn't give rise to much discussion. It is clear that NATO is also there with the war in Europe. A few years ago, President Macron said NATO is brain-dead. He wouldn't repeat that today. NATO is future-proof . We're back, transatlantism is very vivid again. I spent four days in Vilnius with a large delegation from the NATO Parliament. Mr Bacquelaine is also in that and many colleagues were there. We've been trying for years to strengthen transatlantic ties. An agreement whereby our Zaventem airport can be the first to organise a pre-clearance on the ground in Europe is a truly fantastic sign of friendship for our American friends, a sign of openness and a sign of respect for our great friend and brother on the other side of the Atlantic. What I find strange, Mr Vice Prime Minister, is that you are talking in your draft law about a cost of EUR 2.4 million. I find it odd that you're putting it this way. How can you talk about a cost? This has a technical cost, however, to ensure that a zone is delineated at the airport, to ensure that the United States migration and customs officers are stationed here and get certain permits. However, these are all administrative costs. Do you know what the economic gain will be if we have this, Mr Deputy Prime Minister? If you fly via Zaventem to the United States, you will have a time saving of 2 to 3 hours, because there you will be directly inside. This is a real asset. This is not a fundamental point, but I noticed that in your text you are talking about the cost of this, while this is paying for our economy and for our airport that it desperately needs. It pays for our citizens, for our employees, for our airport community, for Flemish Brabant and for this country. I find it odd that you put this in your bill as a cost. I think that's a strange interpretation. As a liberal, you should say that the cake is just getting bigger, it actually raises money. A specific question: when will this be introduced? We will be voting on this today. It was signed on 28 September 2020. It's been a long time. This is where it happened fast. It's not Belgium, it's always fun to say. In the States it took some time before it was touched by the parliamentary bodies, but it was also approved there. It's fast in here, but when are we gonna be done? Is the airport ready to enter this quickly? Could you look into that in order to give a concrete answer to Parliament's questions? When can we say that our friends from the United States or self-deliverers can use this? Thirdly, Mr Vice-President, I read in your explanatory statement that we will be the first country in Europe to have this, but that there are agreements with Sweden, Spain and Norway. Where are those chords? In itself, I am not very worried about that, I'm sure that's okay. Spain, Sweden, Norway are quite far. What about Schiphol? We were negotiating there too, but in my view we made the mistake of stopping the negotiations because Mr Trump was President of the States. We did not do that, we continued to negotiate. No matter who's president, if it's good for our economy, for our airport, we'll keep negotiating. Eventually, President Trump is just someone. He's gone, too. Meanwhile, an agreement was reached and there is another president. Schiphol has not done so, but the Dutch are now in the process of negotiating. We now have a competitive advantage in the field, let us put it into practice as soon as possible, Mr Clarinval. Let's not wait for Schiphol. After all, they're starting to negotiate hard. Believe me freely when I tell them that we're ahead of them. Apart from the draft law, I would like to add a number of besognes concerning the airport. Mr Wollants will also comment on the EES. You may not say that much, but that's going to turn the whole world of aviation upside down. It's the Entry/Exit System for the Schengen area. That was negotiated. That seemed like a good idea to know who's always where. However, this is going to be a complete disaster in practice. Mr Wollants is going to say something about that. I would like to make four points with regard to the airport. I was primarily triggered by the action of Aviapartner's trade unions today. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I have said it several times, I am not a syndicater, I am not a communist either, but I do respect the work that Mrs Vindevoghel has been doing in the field of airport for years. This morning, Aviapartner was stopped. You should listen carefully, also as a liberal. This morning the baggage dealers stopped at the airport because they don't get an afternoon break. One has to imagine. People start shipping heavy bags, bags and bags at 6:00 in the morning, which is a hugely heavy job. Often the guys who do, they're pretty tough guys. I think they're hungry in the afternoon. If one has dragged a few tons in four hours, one deserves a break in the afternoon. I'd appreciate that. What kind of business culture does one end up as an employee with a day's contract with Aviapartner if one does not get an afternoon's break, Minister? Can you explain that to me? The Belgian authorities are shareholders of the airport. Can you explain that to me? I don't understand. I read the PVDA press release. Most of the time I think it's funny and hilarious, but today I thought it was more than right. Mr Mahdi would be better here too, he is from Flemish Brabant and this is about many voters. How the hell can one be a baggage dealer, start at 6:00 in the morning, drag a few tons and not get an afternoon break from your employer? I think, frankly, I'd strike too. I wouldn't join the PVDA or buy a syndicated card, there are limits to everything, but I would strike and ask if I could eat my sandwich for an hour quietly, have a bag of coffee and talk to my colleagues. Mr Vice Prime Minister, there has been a need for a third baggage dealer at the airport for years. We have voted in this Chamber a resolution for a third handler and there are still only two: Aviapartner and Alyzia. That is a race to the bottom and absolutely not okay in terms of working conditions. As with any budget debate, I come back to it and there are a number of colleagues who support and follow me on this. So I call once again on the government. Every time I ask the Prime Minister to do something about baggage handling and working conditions through FPIM, as shareholder of BAC. It can't go on like this. I say that as someone who lives with a heart for this community and is on the side of both the employer and the workers. Thirdly, I would also like to say something about greening. There really is a problem with the aircraft tax you have introduced. I have been asking for clarification on this for months. I read in De Standaard's poll that most Flemings understand this. The tax may even be a little higher. Apparently the Flemings are for more taxes, I was amazed by that. The Flemings I encounter are for less taxes. Anyway, maybe I'm wrong about public opinion. Maybe they only questioned the readers of De Standaard, because they only go to the left. That aircraft tax raises 40 million euros a year. Please invest in better rail links, international connectivity via rail, so that those distances of less than 500 kilometres can be travelled faster. You may be following it less, but it's really an important file. I would really like your attention to be paid to that. A few weeks ago Schiphol together with the Dutch Railways, the Dutch Minister of Mobility and the Dutch Prime Minister gave a press conference on the future of the airport. They did so together with the railways, a direct competitor of the airport. They want to roll out a plan over the next 20 years, which means that on connections up to 800 kilometres faster by train than by plane. What are we doing? Nothing. What does the government do? What does Minister Gilkinet do? This ensures that the train, the only connectivity we have with Amsterdam, will only run to Rotterdam. Hallucinant! We will see whether this is going to happen effectively, but I hope SNCB will say njet. Thirdly, the airport administration. It was a year ago, since May 2021, that a meeting of the board of directors of the airport was chaired by a chairman. For one year, in the biggest crisis the airline industry has ever experienced, greater than Sabena's crisis, greater than the crisis after the attacks, your government has left the airport beheaded, without the chairman of the board, because of a purely party-political conflict over Marc Descheemaecker. Open Vld wanted him gone because it's someone who went for the N-VA. While he was supported by the private shareholders, he had to leave. In the meantime, the private shareholders said that they would not accept a government candidate. The candidate of the government was Wouter Gabriels, the son of a traitor, Jaak Gabriels. I don't know if he's in jail right now, but he's definitely convicted. For a year, you've been letting the airport try to save itself without a president. Is that good governance now? Is that the new political culture of Green and Ecolo? That's what I'm wondering. I have heard a great deal of talk about the new political culture in the European Parliament, including Mr Calvo. Is that the new political culture, the second largest economic engine in Flanders and Belgium, thus misunderstand? Mr Clarinval, I am glad that you are here. After all, your lot also has butter on its head. For years, a driver has not been designated as the driver of the MR. That position has been vacant for years, because the MR wants to nominate someone with whom the private shareholders have a problem, being someone who defends the interests of Brussels South, Charleroi airport. If I were a private shareholder of Zaventem airport, I wouldn't want someone like that on the board of directors. After all, I don't want a spy on the board of directors. That man has other besognes, so I want someone else on the board of directors. However, the MR and Mr Bouchez do not want to depart. You are, of course, doing what Mr Bouchez says you must do. So you only want this person, but the private shareholders don't hire him. Excuse me, but I'm allowed to speak here, right? Mrs Rohonyi, member of a party with two seats, may speak here for an hour about blood donation by gays and Igbtqi individuals. Can't I talk to you about the airport? That's not illegal, is it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u120	Madam President, I think that Mr Francken's speech is more like a topical issue. Let him put his question to the government when it comes to topical questions, but let him not touch on this subject, which has nothing to do with the texts we are discussing!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u121	I've waited a long time. I've been waiting all day to take the floor on this. I am pleased to be able to do so, Madam President, and I very much appreciate that. I have one more point and then I'm done. I understand that it is very unfortunate for Ecolo-Groen's colleagues to see how the airport is being misunderstood and that the New Political Culture, at least in Zaventem, has not really found its way into it. But that can still change. You still have a year and a half. I look forward to it. My question is very specific: when does the MR finally identify a driver who is objective and does not represent the interests of a direct competitor? Thank you very much for that on behalf of the airport. Finally, I would like to make a brief point concerning the flight law. Here too, Mr Gilkinet, you are a Deputy Prime Minister and participate in all the cores. As you know, Mr Gilkinet is also Deputy Prime Minister, and he is still trying to make some sort of pact with all those involved, with everyone, even the Länder, about a prelude to a flight law. Am I saying that correctly? I can't put it any other way. Here too, Mr Vice-Prime Minister, I would like to ask you to be attentive to what is coming to us there. We must ensure that this second economic engine of our country, with all possible political and social support, can continue to grow in a difficult time. The airport is now around 75% of its capacity. I hope he can go to 80 or 90% this summer, then maybe he can close with a positive result. For the past two years, if I am not mistaken, EUR 220 million has been lost, but I hope that this year it can be balanced again and that we can go back to a growth scenario for our airport.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u122	Mr Francken, I hear you talking about this prelude to flying law and the attempts made to get closer with the regions to prepare the ground and make progress. According to my information, the Land of Flanders withdrew at the last minute. Do you have any more information about this? Do you have an explanation why Flanders didn't go further?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u123	I'm very glad you're addressing me as Mr. Flanders, but of course I'm not in the Flemish government. The last thing I heard is that negotiations are still under way. Either you're better informed, or I haven't been updated yet. I may see another member of the Flemish Government later. I'll check that out. I have heard that they are still working on these texts. They hope to find a constructive way out of that. It's not easy. A lot of sentences were difficult, but a lot of good work has already been done. There's been a lot of rewrites. We're constructive. I'm always against an empty seat policy anyway. You know that. Even if you're against it, you'd better stay at the table, I always say. You shouldn't quit.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u124	I did not intend to intervene, but Mr Francken quoted me. When it comes to the interests of the workers at the airport, you know that I certainly want to say something. It was actually written in the stars that there would be a strike. I've been hearing for months from people in the workplace that it's not possible to do it. There are over 1,500 jobs open. They're looking for hundreds of people in all services. I just got off the phone with a Member of Parliament. At the check-in desks you have 50 people a day too short. The fact that people can't eat was too much yesterday. However, Avia had made an appointment with the employees. Can you imagine loading and unloading a piece of luggage for 8 hours without eating? That is the reality in the workplace today. The employer had agreed that employees could take breaks. That agreement was not respected, which resulted in this morning's action. A second important reason for this morning's action is that some trainees perform a safety function and train other trainees. It's a good thing you're hearing this, too. Things like this are happening with Aviapartner right now. This puts passengers' safety at risk, because these trainees obviously have no or insufficient training. Trade unionists have been asking for additional staff for months, but nothing is being done about it. A third point I would like to emphasise is that some employees leave the company because they are no longer able to pay for their petrol. Employees living in Limburg pay up to 300 euros per month purely in fuel costs and cannot pay that anymore. I'd like to give you those facts. Allow me to make a proposal here regarding the government. Maybe this also comes with Open Vld members with good relations with employers at the airport. You also have such relationships, Mr Francken. Actions have recently taken place at Schiphol Airport. There an agreement of 5 euros was reached for all airport workers. Can you imagine that? 5 euro storage, organized by the operator. Schiphol pays 5 euros to all employees. In addition, every employee receives free public transport to the airport. Such agreements can already represent a serious step forward. After all, anyone travelling by train to Zaventem airport must pay the Diabolo surcharge. Let's start with an increase in the supply of trains. Perhaps public transport to the airport can also be made free of charge for the workers. There is a need for a shuttle service so that people can get to work by train. Workers who start work at four o'clock in the morning now have to take the car to work, because at those hours there is no train offer. In such matters, steps can be taken forward. There must be an offer of public transport and the Diabolo bonus must be removed, and public transport must be cheaper for workers. I propose that the Schiphol agreement be applied in our country. It's perfectly possible. The Belgian Government is still a shareholder of BAC. It can be a very good solution for people in the short term, so that people are still found to carry out these jobs and so that people can work in good working conditions at the airport.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u125	As the three elected representatives of our province, Mrs De Block, Mrs Liekens and myself, we are also very committed to the airport, its employees and the companies. It is the second economic gate of Belgium, after the port of Antwerp. She still provides 60,000 direct and indirect jobs. Mrs Vindevoghel, we too consider workers to be very important. Employers are nothing without employees. Standing up for the employees is not an exclusivity of the PTB. This is also a priority for the many other democratic parties here in the hemisphere. The airport has had two difficult years. Corona has drastically reduced the numbers. The airport operated at the worst times only 1 or 2 %. Luckily, the cargo was still spinning. This proposal will give a real competitive advantage to our airport. Mr Francken, I must correct you. There is already an agreement in Ireland, but Ireland is not the mainland, although it is part of Europe. The committee has confirmed, by Secretary of State Michel, that other negotiations are also taking place, with Sweden, the Netherlands and others. However, the Secretary of State was unable to report on the progress of these negotiations at the time. The competitive advantage consists of faster unloading in the US. There are hours of queues for fingerprints and the like, after which the connection is already missed. After all, someone who flies to Chicago, Atlanta or Washington usually travels to another city. Because of these long checks one can miss a flight and then one has to camp half a day or all day at such an airport. There will certainly be a competitive advantage, and I hope that will be possible for some time to come. Who realized this? Certainly Mr Jambon has contributed to this, but our Prime Minister, then Minister of Finance, responsible for FPIM, has completed it. What about the introduction? That was also explained in committee. I explained that, too. That was a question of my own. If we approve this, the BAC and the United States itself will have to make it MoU. Then it can be implemented. We have urged the government to facilitate this, to do so as soon as possible. As far as airport growth is concerned, as liberals, we are in favour of economic growth, including this airport, if this is accompanied by the introduction of sustainable solutions. Economics and ecology must go hand in hand. A few weeks ago, I was visiting Brussels Airport. They are really doing sustainability projects there. I'll mention two. The transport on the tarmac is almost entirely electrically organized: electric buses and aircraft are electrically taxied. A second project concerns biofuels. They're already being used today, but now they're being delivered. Brussels Airport will open a biofuel blending plant, the first in the world, within a few months, on the side of Steenokkerzeel. Brussels Airport is also committed to sustainability, in addition to the necessary economic growth. Brussels as a European capital must have the ambition to have even more direct connections with other capitals. This is already the case within Europe, but especially outside Europe. We are the second diplomatic hub in the world and many decisions are taken here. With headquarters such as NATO and others here, it is very important that we continue to grow the airport, but above all have direct connections to other capitals. That is why it is important that we solve two internal problems. The first concerns noise standards. It is incredible that airlines here follow the instructions of skeyes to take off, but still get a fine. We need to solve that once and for all, because that is a reason for some airlines to stay out of here, they just don't understand that. The second problem concerns the flight law. It has already been in a government agreement five times. It is now time that we made that flight law, so as to give a legal framework to the airlines, so that it is settled once and for all. Brussels as a European capital deserves to be an airport city. I explained, an airport city has more connections. The international airport of Zaventem must never or never become a city airport. A number of parties here in the hemisphere want to achieve this. For us, Brussels must become an airport city and not a city airport.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u126	Madam President, I would like to take a look at what has already been said here. It is absolutely important to tackle the problem of the equitable distribution of these flights and the nuisances. That has indeed been going on for a long time. If one counts well, most of the problems started when a merger model was chosen in the Flemish Rand. Then we talk about the period 1999-2002, when that started. Since then, we have had no less than eleven excellences in that position, but we have not got out of it. Something absolutely has to be done about that. It is good that an egg is laid there. After all, the air transport law has not only been in different governmental agreements, it has even been before it in Parliament. That was Schouppe's flight bill. It was the draft law on the operating restrictions of Brussels-National. Nothing ever happened to that because there was no agreement. Can we reach an agreement on that now? That is an important matter. We cannot continue to explain to these airlines that they are subject to fines by doing what has been imposed on them. One cannot keep telling them to put aside the money for those fines in case they ever have to be paid. I also remember Brussels Budget Ministers who were there as the chickens to collect those fines. Our good friends at the Open Vld know who I'm talking about. In this respect, we must once again call for a sound solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u127	I'd like to respond, because what you're saying isn't correct. You refer to Brussels Minister Guy Vanhengel and his predecessor. I know that they mainly delayed the fines and did not send those invoices. Environment Brussels produced these invoices and Mr Vanhengel, as Brussels Minister for Finance and Budget, stopped its collection. That's the reality, I know that, I've seen it happen myself. So please, give the facts right back here in the hemisphere.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u128	I would like to clarify that other communications have been made in the past, because the Minister was under pressure from his colleagues in the Brussels Government. The Brussels Government also decided to abolish the tolerance margins. You know what it's about. You have also referred to a number of sustainability projects, such as electric transport at the airport. I think it can still do a little better, for example by focusing more on local bus builders. I'm not just saying that because I'm from Lier. In Belgium we have a number of top companies in this sector, which build buses for almost the whole world, but not always for us. There are still steps to be taken, and that is certainly worth a debate. It does not all have to be imported from distant countries; we ourselves have that know-how. Finally, I come to the entry and exit system, to which Mr Francken referred. That's exactly the opposite of what's going on here today. Pre-clearance must lead to time savings which will make it much easier for the United States to proceed. On the other hand, we also know that problems may arise for the Americans and other residents of non-Schengen countries who are coming here. This system has been developed by the European Union. I think there was an agreement in 2017. The agreement was intended to ensure that everything can be done in an automated way. The system has many advantages. For example, it is better to follow who has already been refused border controls in other countries. We can also check how long people have stayed in the European Union and whether they respect the maximum deadlines. In order to achieve this, steps must be taken forward. The intention of the European system is, of course, that it could start at the same time in all the Member States in November of this year. This is also stated in Minister Verlinden's policy paper: it will be implemented in 2022. However, we note that no steps have yet been taken. The system is built with a system of kiosks or info desks, a kind of self-service terminal where people can log in. These have still not been awarded today. The procedure hasn't even started yet. So it looks like the system will never be ready in November 2022 and waiting times of no less than four to ten hours are expected. At the time when we are talking here about pre-clearance and the limitation of waiting times for passengers arriving from here to the United States, we will welcome the Americans here with a system which may lead to a delay of four to ten hours. That is something that cannot be tolerated at all. Action must be taken to this end. It might even be necessary to postpone the system, including in a number of other European countries. Such waiting times are not explained, all the more so because this would give Brussels Airport a firm grip on its competitive position. When it becomes known that whoever flies on Zaventem may have to wait hours and hours, then that system is not an improvement but a big step backwards. Something absolutely has to be done about that. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, it is therefore important that attention be paid to this problem. After all, what we are winning here must not be lost on the other flank. If we do so, everything is of course a measure of nothing in terms of improving competitiveness. I would have liked to know what steps are being taken in this area and whether it is the intention of a number of other countries to see how things can be done so that we are all ready and able to work the system properly. I am convinced that, when everything is ready, the system will provide a number of safety benefits. In this situation, however, we cannot allow Zaventem airport to become one of the slowest or slower airports for those from non-Schengen countries. In that case, we will lose the whole benefit enormously quickly. We must not allow that to happen. If you can push us in the right direction and take action in this respect, it is absolutely in the interest of the airport and the users of the airport.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u129	Madam President, Mr Franken has asked me several questions and I will try to answer him. Mr Francken, you are right, the negotiations have dragged on for a few years. At some point it was more efficient to negotiate separately with the two US authorities, Customs and Border Protection on the one hand and Transportation Security Administration on the other hand, and to reach an agreement. We are pleased that there is now an agreement in Parliament. Preclearance is a procedure whereby air passengers to the United States already carry out checks on US migration and customs services at the airport of departure. A pre-clearance flight arrives in the United States as if it were a domestic flight. For passengers, this is time savings on arrival, as there is no longer any control at the airport of destination. For example, one can also take connecting flights faster. It also allows airlines to organise flights to smaller airports in the United States where there is no migration control on the spot. Mr Francken, for Brussels Airport and interested airlines, it offers a competitive advantage in the transatlantic air traffic market from the European mainland. It strengthens the connectivity and position of our capital as an international hub and thus meets an objective Belgian interest. Mr Franken, you are right, it will bring money to the Belgian economy. I can't really quantify the amount because it's pretty diffuse. You're asking me the cost question. There will be revenues, it is clear, there will be positive progress for the economy, but there will also be costs for the federal authorities. My colleague has quoted in committee the figure of EUR 2 386 533 on an annual basis. I can tell you that in fact these amounts consist, on the one hand, of 340,962.50 euros of staff costs for customs. These are two teams of two people in stand-by during the morning team. There are also 1,806,196.15 euros - you see that this is very precise - for the federal police, 1,741,239 euros for the costs of law enforcement, judicial treatment and signalling personnel, 51,642 euros for removal costs - the federal police starts from an estimate of 30 escorts per year and 95 without escorts. There are also 13,314.03 euros of personnel and operating costs for the training of preclearance officers to be deployed in Belgium. There are also 239,375 euros for the Office of Foreigners. A number of transit passengers will be denied a connecting flight to the United States during the pre-clearance period. It is possible that some of these people will resist a return flight and seek asylum. In some cases, this may result in detention in a closed centre and possibly forced repatriation. A 10-day stay is assumed for 70% of a total of 125 rejected transit passengers. This is therefore an estimate: EUR 179 000 in accommodation costs and EUR 60 000 in removal costs, at 30 escorts per year. This is the breakdown of the estimated €2,386,533 for customs, police and the Foreign Office. Another question is planning. The timetable for implementation will no longer depend on the federal authority after this vote. Negotiations are under way between operators, so it is difficult and too early to communicate to you a deadline for the agreement between these operators. This competitive advantage that we want to have, particularly in Schiphol and elsewhere, must be achieved as quickly as possible. You're asking me questions about strikes, especially with regard to lunch breaks. I confess, we don't always know why there are strikes in this country. I cannot therefore tell you why there was a strike in Aviapartner. I'm not in charge of this case. But I would ask you to ask my colleague Gilkinet, who is responsible for transport. I also invite you to ask him the other questions related to airport policy. I can't answer that. Finally, I promise you that I will ask my party president who wishes to put in the structure body whose name I have forgotten you mentioned earlier. I'm sure he'll have an answer to give me. I'll let you know when the time comes. Madam President, this concludes the answers to Mr Franken's questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u130	Mr Vice Prime Minister, I have discussed the airport dossier in detail, together with Mr Wollants. We have adopted a resolution here in temporal non-suspecto, when there was no federal government yet, but a government in ongoing cases. We are trying to keep that warm in our own way and to call attention to it regularly because it is really important that the government continues to look at it. This is a really difficult time for the airport and the airport staff, and we are trying to get through it together, in the interests of airport staff and of our economy. We, as representatives of the people, are also expected to work on this. I look forward to the candidate who will present the MR at the next nuclear cabinet. I am curious and I hope that he does not wear a Brussels South cap or a Liège cap, but that he is committed to our national airport at 100% and serves no other interests. After all, only one gentleman can be served, especially in a competitive market such as the airport sector. Thank you, Mr Vice Prime Minister, for your explanation. In conclusion, this is a very good bill that we will approve.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u131	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u132	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2621/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2621/1) The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u133	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u134	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u135	Madam Chair, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u136	Madam President, today is Protocol No. 16 to the European Convention on Human Rights. This has had many feet in the earth. The protocol was signed in 2013, but it took until 2018, i.e. 5 years, to find 10 countries. This shows that this is a rather sensitive subject. In the meantime, only 6 other countries from the 47 of the Council of Europe have signed the Protocol. So the counter is on 16 countries out of 47. Well, that's got to mean something. The Council of State also gave its opinion and gave some comments. For example, our legal order has not been adapted to the agreement with this protocol. The government did not comply and did not make any changes to the comments of the Council of State. That's weird, isn't it? In substance, there are both advantages and disadvantages associated with the protocol. I shall first mention its potential benefits. Our higher courts, such as the Constitutional Court and the Council of State, will be able to seek an opinion from the European Court of Human Rights, as already exists before the Court of Justice in Luxembourg, where a pre-judicial question can be asked. With this protocol, this will also be possible at the European Court of Human Rights. The advantage of this is that it will be less attractive for trial parties to appeal in Strasbourg, as the Strasbourg Court will have already given an opinion. In addition, our higher courts will be able to obtain the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights on certain matters that have not yet been the subject of case-law. This reduces the chance that Belgium would subsequently be convicted of certain judgments. In addition, our higher courts can enter into dialogue with the European Court of Human Rights, just as this is done thanks to the preliminary opinions of the Court of Justice. However, there are also some concerns. The first is the fact that, although this is an opinion of the European Court of Human Rights and opinions are in principle not binding, it could be de facto binding. It is said that this is the view of the European Court of Human Rights. There is therefore a certain amount of attention to be paid to it and this could be an imperative. Secondly, although these are opinions, they can be very specific, leaving little room for interpretation for our courts if they subsequently apply them. As I said just now, 16 countries have signed and only two have made use of this possibility. This points to the lack of practical importance attached to it. One last danger we see is that the European Court of Human Rights is lagging behind in a great deal of justice. I don't think that's a secret. If an opinion is requested from a court which is already lagging behind, it will, of course, extend our national procedures. Because of these two sides of the matter, we see both benefits and potential dangers in the EU, the N-VA Group will abstain in the vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u137	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, by means of a protocol, this draft law allows high national courts to ask questions of principle to the European Court of Human Rights. There is, of course, nothing wrong with advice, but, as in committee, we would like to share some comments with you. In the first instance, the Council of State made the observation that this is a mixed treaty, not an exclusive federal matter. As a result, both the Federal Parliament and all Community and Regional Parliaments must give their prior consent before the treaty can be ratified by Belgium. That is a remark made by the Council of State. We can, of course, agree with that. Secondly, as has been said, there is nothing wrong with opinions, but in concrete terms this draft law means that on human rights and on fundamental rights, the European Court of Human Rights, a non-elected court of many left-progressive judges or all kinds of judges who often have links with left-progressive NGOs, may give advice to our high national courts. We have a problem with that in principle, because no less than 22 of the judges of the European Court of Human Rights were active within left-wing organisations between 2009 and 2019. Twelve of them were even active at the Open Society Foundations of the Left-Globalist billionaire Soros. These judges often dealt with cases of their own NGOs, i.e. conflict of interest. This has often been demonstrated. All this, of course, leads us to have very little confidence in the opinions of the European Court of Human Rights. That is one of the reasons why we abstained from the vote in committee. We believe that this draft law could tend too much towards a kind of government of judges and could have even more influence on our own national legal order. For us, this means an opportunity to undermine our national democracy, which is the main reason why we are abstaining from voting on this draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u138	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u139	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2631/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2631/1) The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip183x.u140	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a short break of 10 minutes before we resume our work. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Thursday 2 June 2022 at 7.45 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, June 2, 2022 at 7.45 p.m.
