ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u1	Mrs Muylle and Mr Bacquelaine apologize. Their questions therefore become without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u2	Mr President, Minister, a function model for care and nursing was drawn up in Flanders, in which the so-called HBO5 nurses continue to play a role. The federal government agreement confirms the full own profile of the HBO5 nurses. A federal task force would now be set up to shape the so-called care ladder. At what stage are the discussions currently taking place? Which partners are involved? Is there agreement on the shape of the care ladder and the place of the HBO5 nurses in it? Will they also clearly know their place within the care landscape? When is the final discussion expected and will clarity be provided, especially to the sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u3	Minister, I have already questioned you about this. The question about the HBO5 training and possibly a new interpretation of the profile continues to worry the nurses in the field. That is not unfounded: there is the shortage of staff, there is a lot of staff who are ill for a long time and are suffering from burn-out, there is high workload and stress and there are already 5 corona waves. Today there is still a lot of delayed care to be done. Is the government working on new job profiles? Is there going to be a new name for HBO5 nurses? When are you going to put a proposal on the table? In September last year, a task force was set up to formulate opinions to the various governments. That was postponed, but in the end the report is ready. It makes it clear that current HBO5 nurses and students can retain their visa without changing anything for them. That is, of course, positive. It is also thanks to the fact that they have continued to draw attention to the fact that it has been put right. At the same time, there are no conclusions on the implementation of the new job profiles or on the improvement of working conditions in the field. There's a CD&V bill pending, but I need to know what's going on. What do you want to do with the final report and the advice? Will you discuss them at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health, or have they been discussed? What is the time frame for possibly drawing up a proposal? What concrete steps will be taken? Will you also consult or inform the trade unions representing the care staff about this? Do you think that a new job profile could lead to frustration in a sector that is already on the tip of the toes today? More generally, what measures do you take to make work in the healthcare sector more attractive?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u4	Mr President, Mr Minister, it is true that the debate focuses on profiles and on the training and recognition aspect, with the whole debate on HBO5, etc. The denominations are somewhat different on the francophone side. In any case, this is an important debate in terms of recognition of the nursing profession. Allow me, however, to stress once again the importance of much more important work on all matters relating to the attractiveness of the nursing profession, the upgrading of this profession, the revision of the standards of supervision for stronger support both in hospital work and in home work or in nursing homes, even if these are not exclusively within your competence, but also within the competence of the Regions. In this respect, certain measures envisaged under the former legislature have, of course, been taken; here I am thinking of the White Blouse Fund. But it can only be seen that recruitment is a problem. Today, the rate of absenteeism in the nursing profession has never been so high in hospitals, resulting in the closure of a number of beds and therefore the postponement of care, but also a very high workload for nurses still in operation. As you know, the nurses had made a whole series of very concrete proposals which I consider very responsible and very reasonable. But nothing has yet been achieved, including in the area of recognition of penitibility. I would therefore like to draw attention to these various points in this topical debate on the issue of training and recognition. I'll give you an example. Since the establishment of IFIC, when your predecessor, Mrs De Block, was in place, and since you took up your duties, I keep repeating how problematic this Institute's decisions have been. Of course, you made a correction for intensive care nurses. However, for other nursing specializations and for other caregivers such as hospital pharmacists, no correction has yet been made. These are major issues. I therefore hope that concrete measures can be taken in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u5	I agree with Mrs. Fonck. There needs to be a broad debate on the issue of attractiveness, but I would still like to focus my answer on the specific question concerning the problem of functional profiles and the discussions that have taken place on the definition of a new model of function. In the Flemish jargon that is called the care ladder. I would like to concentrate on that, Mrs Fonck, because it is an important problem. I will not be able to offer the Members who have asked questions on this issue a ready-made solution today. I would like to stress that I absolutely want to move forward with this. As the speakers have said, an interfederal task force has been set up. It actually consisted of two working groups. There was a working group on basic training and a working group on specializations. The specialization working group actually produced the final report by the end of January. The basic training working group submitted a report in February. The discussion in the interfederal task force involving the Länder, but also the representative organisations of the nurses themselves, was not easy. This indicates that there are different opinions. I do want to stick to what is in the coalition agreement and what, I think, was correctly quoted by Mrs Gijbels. We really have to work on the basis of the available competences and a diversified set of professional profiles and thus, among other things, continue to give the HBO nurses their place within the existing system. That's my conviction, too. I am not going to go into what I actually think should be the conclusion. I've got the reports now. What I do want to do now is to consult the Länder again on this matter in order to see if I can resolve a number of differences of opinion. This is how I hope to achieve a greater consensus. In the end, I will assume my own responsibilities and make proposals which must fit in with the law on the exercise of health professions. I think Mrs Merckx is right to point out that the reports now prepared by the interfederal task force do not yet contain a detailed description of what the legal capacity of, for example, a primary nurse would be. I think, Mrs Merckx, that we should work in stages. The aim is first to achieve maximum consensus on occupational profiles that we apply in the law on the exercise of health professions. As far as I'm concerned, those should be profiles at levels 5, 6, 7 and 8. We need, I think, the whole ladder in its complementarity. If we have registered that in the legislation, I think we need to define the precise powers of action. I will, of course, do so in close consultation with the organisations of the nurses and the nursing advisory bodies. Now that that report from those two working groups is available, I want to get to work and not drag it out. I think it's important to put those profiles in place. I would like to stress once again that it is the intention to achieve an attractive set of profiles, in which people with different talents and different possible developments of competences find their place and thus give the sector a lot of extra attractiveness. I come back to what Mrs Fonck said, namely that this is not the only answer, but I think it is an essential answer. I hope that the debate on this can be conducted without prejudice, vested interests and existing situations. We must make a breakthrough. This passage of the coalition agreement is extremely important to me. That's all I'm gonna say about this right now. Ladies and gentlemen of the committee, it may be a little frustrating for you, but I do not want to take the lead in the search for the broadest possible consensus now that these reports have been submitted. However, I really want to make progress on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u6	Minister, I am pleased to hear that you are still determined to implement the government agreement on this point. I understand that this is not easy if the regions have different opinions, but I think that the sector does not need to go into this further at the moment, but needs perspective. The nurses have been severely tested and there are not so many active nurses. There are quite a lot of trained nurses, but there is also a lot of outflow from the sector. I believe that the attractiveness of the profession is indeed very important and that this care ladder is a very important aspect of it. As you point out, we need them all. The fact that they are not recognised at European level seems to me to be secondary, as long as this is well communicated with the people who are taking up training. Furthermore, the function model is best applied so that it will pay to continue studying within the healthcare sector. It is a pity to note that people with certain competences are better paid abroad. I think we should avoid this. In this respect, it is important to create jobs that are additional contributions for nurses with additional specialization, such as urgent or intensive care. That would also be arranged within the IFIC, but as far as I know that has not worked out. Those people are waiting for that, too. I hope that works quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u7	It is, of course, frustrating to have an answer in which you state that there are differences of opinion but do not explain them further. It's all a little vague. You say that you will talk to the Länder about this again. The trade unions were not represented in that working group, but only the representatives of the General Union of Nurses of Belgium. I think that representativeness is a problem. There is a lot of pressure on the healthcare sector today. There are many caregivers who quit and feel unappreciated. We must ensure that it represents a general improvement in the attractiveness of the way of working in the healthcare sector. What is now on the table is not enough. There has also been the evaluation of the Health Care Staff Fund. It is clear that it is not enough. Both the specialised nursing profession and the basic nursing profession must be revalued. The IFIC has slightly improved this, but not enough to ensure that people start working in the healthcare sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answer. Although I do share the frustration of some colleagues, I hear a political will from you. We were waiting for her, she's here, and I'm glad. I hear your willingness to make the sector more attractive, to finally be able to work on the basis of these reports made by the inter-federal task force in order to reach the broadest consensus with the federated entities and therefore not to waste any more time. This is extremely positive, but it remains extremely vague because we need guarantees to be able to tell us today that concrete measures will come in the coming weeks, or even in the coming months, to finally improve this nursing profession but also to include professional organisations in this task force. There's an emergency. There is a need to recruit additional staff, but there is also a need to ensure that professionals are maintained in the field. Too many graduate nurses leave the field because they are disgusted with their working conditions and lack of political consideration for them. For this to happen, a real global recovery plan is needed. That was the goal – you had presented it to us like that – of this inter-federal task force. The challenge is to be able to show students who want to embrace these studies to be nurses that they can do so, to show graduate nurses that they can stay in the field, and to ensure that hospitals are no longer obliged to tinker with solutions to overcome the shortage of available staff. As part of my written question, I referred to the example of Saint-Luc's Hospital and CHU Tivoli, who now intend to transform conventional units into week units or day units so that they can put their scarce available staff where it is most useful. Minister, this situation is untenable both for them and for patients. I expect a precise timetable from you to show us that there is indeed a concrete will – and not just announced in your leadership – to finally arrive at this promised revalorization for too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u9	Minister, I would like to hear you say that HBO5 must continue to exist. I wrote it down in big letters, I'll remind you when the time comes. You also say that there must be as broad a consensus as possible. That's right. However, there is also a European directive at stake. This has reinforced the discussion on the future of nursing training and job profiles. You have just said in plenary that we cannot get out of these European directives and regulations. I hope that you will not open your umbrella in this dossier and say that we must take this step and do so because Europe is imposing it on us. I hope you will stick to your view that this HBO5 is very important. 41 % of nurses have an HBO5 diploma. That's a lot, that's a very large group. We certainly must not lose them in times of cramped care.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u10	Mr Minister, for the first time, Sciensano has linked the most common diseases to quality of life in a study of long-term illness and premature death. It is concluded that the Belgian population loses a total of 2.3 million years of life and that depression and excessive alcohol consumption significantly reduce the quality of life. This makes it clear that the well-being of citizens is not only determined by medical intervention, but also by the way of life and habits that have been discussed before. An important thesis of researchers is that there is still much to be gained in terms of prevention and disposal. What importance do you attach to this investigation, Minister? In the past, we have already talked about phasing out the use of psychopharmaceuticals, which resulted in the adoption of a resolution on mental health care. I myself have tabled a bill on the day-to-day supervision of patients in drug disposal in the pharmacy. How are your plans on the disposal of funds, the reimbursement of the titration of certain doses and the delivery in the pharmacy, accompanied by the pharmacy? I would also like to know whether you have provided sufficient capacity for the reduction of drinking. How will you arrange that and keep it affordable for the patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u11	Minister, in March, Sciensano first published a burden study. In part, we already knew that people died prematurely from lung cancer, heart disease and Alzheimer's, but there had not yet been a comprehensive study of the impact of diseases on the number of healthy life years, with a major impact on quality of life. The study has shown that depression, heart disease, lung cancer, as well as low back pain and excessive alcohol consumption are the most common reasons for loss of quality of life. The study also showed, however, that Belgium scores the worst for the total burden of disease among 14 EU countries. One of the researchers' conclusions is that our country is not sufficiently committed to prevention. Professor De Maeseneer also calls for the prevention budget to be increased to at least 5%, while at present it is only 2%. In general, Minister, I would like to ask you whether you have taken note of this study and whether you are drawing certain conclusions for policy. Some of the mentioned diseases are located in mental health care. Are there any additional investments in mental health care planned to remedy this? With PVDA, we are calling for more prevention, including in primary health care, which needs to be strengthened. Are you considering raising the prevention budget in Belgium to 5%?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u12	Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u13	Sciensano's research, based on data from 2018 and evaluating the number of years lost in good health of the Belgian population, also provides an overview of the factors that can lead to a reduction in quality of life. It is very interesting for the definition of our policy. We can estimate which diseases and injuries have the greatest impact on public health. The disease burden indicator used by Sciensano is a very good synthesis indicator. It is about the number of healthy years of life that a person loses due to illness, disability or premature death. It is generally concluded that the 37 main diseases in Belgium resulted in a loss of 2.3 million healthy years of life in 2018. All the pathologies and health problems mentioned have the effect of reducing people's quality of life and even dying prematurely. At the same time, it is difficult to provide a global response to all these diseases and problems. Prevention initiatives are of course particularly important. A healthy lifestyle is particularly important. The Länder also have important responsibilities here and are therefore also indispensable partners in health policy. At the same time, we must recognise that the approaches that are needed are very different in substance. Sometimes long-term psychosocial support is needed, sometimes invasive surgery, sometimes rehabilitation. It's always a matter of healthy lifestyle. In the preparation of the members, the importance of the reform of the hospital landscape, networking and pooling of expertise was mentioned. The reform of the hospital landscape in itself is not enough. Above all, we need to build bridges between what happens in hospitals and what happens outside hospitals. We must strive in every possible way for a more integrated approach and a truly good personal care system, creating synergies between different components in the healthcare system. We also take initiatives in federal health insurance, within our own powers, to create more integrated, and therefore multidisciplinary, care, where people are indeed at the heart of the matter. We are also taking initiatives in the field of mental health care. I say immediately that it must also be a question of integrating somatic and psychological approaches. As a human being, we are one whole. We experience physical and psychological complaints or problems that need to be looked at together. I will not repeat here what I have already said in more detail about mental health policy in previous debates. It is very important that the resources provided by the government for the development of first-line psychological care are properly deployed. That is a process that takes a lot of time, and I wish there would be an acceleration at the level of mental health networks. But I won't repeat that. We have stressed this in previous debates. I would like to add that there are still initiatives on mental health. For example, we want to allocate EUR 35 million to strengthen our care capacity for children and young people in mental health care. We want to do this on the basis of a good assessment of the needs of all the regions and sub-regions of this country. This means that we want to allow more flexibility in the use of the EUR 35 million on an annual basis. One region or sub-region will not have exactly the same priorities as another region or sub-region. It is my intention to organise a survey in the coming days and weeks so that I can make a very good assessment of the priority problems in the regions and sub-regions with regard to care capacity for children and young people. In other words: in children's and youth psychiatry. On that basis, I would also like to develop the capacity for child and youth psychiatry, consular but also, where necessary, within institutional settings. In addition to this 35 million I plan to invest 15 million in High Intensive Care and Intensive Services, HIC and ID. My administration is preparing a third call for project proposals related to this, taking into account, inter alia, the scientific evaluation of the projects already approved during the first and second stages, which were proposed at the meeting of the Adult Consultation Body on 10 March 2022. I can also tell you that on 13 May 2022 the Public Health Office will organise a webinar on the intensification of the HIC and ID projects. That will be an important step. As a number of Members have pointed out, we must continue to give the problem of psychopharmaceutical a place of our own, but at the same time we must also hope that what we are doing in terms of developing mental health care and adult, child and youth psychiatry really helps to combat overuse and misuse of psychopharmaceuticals. That's a familiar problem. In 2013, already eight years ago, the Belgian Psychotropics Experts Platform - BelPEP - was established, a multidisciplinary platform that provides advice on policies for the rational use of psychopharmaceuticals. Some patients are prescribed psychopharmaceuticals while a non-medical alternative may be possible and would be better, and others may not be prescribed psychopharmaceuticals although that would be appropriate. This is a challenge, both for the care provider and for the patient. In this respect, various training tools have already been developed under the coordination of the Public Health Office for health professionals, but also useful tools for patients. I could give a detailed overview of this, but I will not do so and refer to the website www.sleepenkalmeermiddelen.be, maintained by the FPS Public Health, which maps existing initiatives, but also to the material collected on the website of the FPS Public Health, https://www.health.belgium.be/en/health/organisation-of-health/quality-of-care/good practice. You will find a whole overview there. The important thing is that we will not leave it to what exists. At the end of this year we are planning a next campaign on psychopharmaceuticals, a campaign that will focus on the general practitioners, pharmacists and psychologists. I am also looking forward to launching the campaign that is in full preparation. I hope, after all, that, at the start of the campaign, there will be a well-developed first-line psychological care, better cooperation between first-line psychologists and general practitioners, and a permanent important role of pharmacists in this area. As far as harmful alcohol consumption is concerned, I can only endorse Mrs Depoorder's call for this. Indeed, within our powers, we must do everything possible to support health professionals in order to speed up the identification of harmful alcohol consumption in patients and to better refer patients to the right treatment. This support includes a series of training courses, some of which are still under development. We also finance the project "tools and care path alcohol" which was started in fifteen general hospitals. The project consists of training hospital staff to identify more effectively harmful alcohol consumption in patients and to develop a care path in the hospital's lap to help patients be treated more effectively. Finally, the Thematic Conference on Drugs of the IMC Health - a meeting which I chair - undertook to develop an interfederal strategy to reduce harmful alcohol consumption in Belgium. The problem and the general objective of this plan were presented to the members of the Thematic Assembly at the end of last month and have already been approved. The aim is that the working group should now be preparing concrete actions. The final text should be completed by the end of this year. To sum up, I would like to say that we can build on a whole series of initiatives that have been taken around psychopharmaceuticals and alcohol. I also believe that we should give fresh impetus in the second half of this year, both through actions to combat harmful alcohol consumption and actions to improve the use of psychopharmaceuticals. All this against a background of hopefully a fully developed first-line psychological aid and an increased capacity in child and youth psychiatry and adult psychiatry, where it complements one another well. Whether these solutions are adequate for all the problems identified in the Sciensano study which led to this topical debate? You do not hear me say that, but I do think that we should intervene as efficiently as possible on the basis of this kind of scientific material. Of course, I have also listened carefully to you, Mrs Depoorter, although I have not responded punctually. After all, you had asked further questions and made suggestions regarding the role of the pharmacist. I have not gone into this now because I do not have a ready proposal, but I will certainly continue to pay attention to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u14	Minister, I have some good news for you: I have that ready-to-use answer. Feel free to read it: it is the 2550 proposal tabled by me and my group colleagues in the Committee on Health. Minister, I am truly disappointed in your reply on the phasing out of psychopharmaceuticals. You've given us a lot of explanations we've already heard. Positive steps have indeed been taken with regard to mental health care, but if you say that you want to launch an awareness-raising campaign on prescription behaviour in relation to psychopharmaceuticals, you really underestimate what is the problem today. It all starts with prescription, but it is also true that many patients today are twisted in the use of unpaid psychopharmaceuticals. For years it has been a priority for the RIZIV to provide a reimbursement schedule. You're now saying you're gonna do research and work evidence-based. The Hoge Gezondheidsraad published a publication in 2011 following the study by Coteur, Van Nuland, Vanmeerbeek et al. on the effectiveness of the reduction of psychopharmaceuticals. The authors draw up a clear schedule: one will titrate per 10 % of the patient's dose and deliver it to the pharmacist or to the psychiatric home nurse, you know: the one for whom you only have two nomenclatures, while I have asked more often to increase the number of nomenclatures and the guidance of the patients. The plans are there, my proposal is ready, you can put your name on them, no problem at all: there is indeed a possibility of a solution! And you will reply that you will investigate this and come up with an initiative soon. This initiative has been selected as a priority by RIZIV. Work it out and we'll help a lot of patients right away. I would like to add one more point, Mr President. If the benzodiazepines are non-refundable psychopharmaceuticals, it is priceless for the average patient to finance the dilutions from his own pocket.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u15	Minister, your answer is interesting, but I wonder if you have understood the seriousness of the situation. We often score well on European barometers compared to other countries, for example in terms of accessibility or number of hospital beds, but in terms of good health and quality of life we are red lantern carriers. We really need more prevention in our country. I do not think you are using certain things to take further steps. Let me give you an example. We still do not have a long-term strategy for vaccination centres. The PVDA has long argued in favour of further developing and using the good cooperation with all the people in primary care at local level for vaccination if necessary, perhaps even for vaccination for flu, but also to consider other preventive measures that could be developed from primary care in the long term. I am thinking of promoting a healthy lifestyle, detecting diabetes, working on tobacco addiction. These are things that need to be developed close to the people. This is really underdeveloped in our country. The people of primary care in the covid crisis have achieved fantastic things in the field to meet the challenges of vaccination of the population. I think that we can use this to develop a long-term strategy for prevention. I would also like to emphasise the development of multidisciplinary first-line centres - we also do this with Medicine for the People - where people can go for care and prevention, for physical care with the general practitioner and the nurses, but also for mental care. We need to work on the idea of the first-line pyschologist that people have access to quickly. If fears are still mild, if alcohol consumption is still starting, if depression has not yet developed, people should have access to treatment. This way we can avoid ending up so badly in that ranking. You say that you will take certain actions for the general practitioners in the field of psychopharmaceuticals. That is a good initiative to make people aware, but we score very badly in Belgium. There have already been sensitization actions. What about the numbers? We need to follow that. I think this is going the wrong way. In terms of people's working conditions, we must also focus on prevention. Low back pain causes people to sit at home and lose their quality of life, is in the study. It is not going to be solved by sending the people with back pain back to work quickly. We need to focus on prevention. We must ensure that employers assume their responsibilities and that people's working conditions are workable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. I believe that such studies are very important for all policy makers, not only for you or for us, but also for local authorities. I agree that prevention should be tackled close to the people and that local authorities can and already do play a role in this. The numbers aren't negative. We read in the study that 2.3 million healthy years of life have been lost, just because of these 37 most common diseases. That's huge. You have also said that man is a whole and that it is important that we also remember the mental aspect. I agree. I see that in other diseases, too, much more is being devoted to this, not only to the physical aspect, but also to mental well-being. Man is a whole. The mental has an impact on the physical and vice versa. What worries me is that we invest very little in prevention. I think we need to see how we can strengthen this and how we can do it together with the regions and local authorities. I think working with health objectives can help with that. You have already worked on this with the RIZIV, but I think we need to go further. Objectives ensure that all stakeholders are in line and that all regions and local authorities can also be involved. For example, it can be decided that this year we will focus on alcohol consumption and tobacco consumption. Then the local authorities can play a role in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u17	Mr President, Minister, this study is certainly interesting, but I think there is no surprise. It must still be admitted here in a sufficiently clear way. We have multiple data on the explosion of chronic diseases. They are known.- they do not date from today - both at the level of Belgium and at the European level, in any case, of the Western countries. What I expect, beyond studies, is a much clearer and much stronger strategy, with both the primary prevention aspects: we always refer to the Communities and the Regions, but the federal government has in its hands the levers that are fundamental. Tobacco and alcohol plan: there have always been major resistances during all these years in order, indeed, to take strong measures in view of the seriousness of the situation. Food, living conditions, environmental risks are all levers available to the federal government; and secondary prevention aspects to slow down the evolution of chronic diseases, too, I think, too. Second, there is the whole aspect of access to health, the quality of care that goes first and foremost through a sufficient number of well-trained caregivers; the fact of having as early a diagnosis as possible, accessibility to care; the centres of expertise with multidisciplinary care; and the whole aspect of innovation. In short, beyond studies, what I expect is a strategy in relation to chronic diseases that will only worsen in the years to come. It is therefore of course up to policy makers to put in place a public health policy worthy of this name and commensurate with the issues at stake.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u18	Mrs Laurence H annoyance has just apologized for a family imperative and as already mentioned, Mr Bacquelaine and Mrs Muylle are also apologised. These questions therefore become moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u19	Minister, the ECDC called a while ago to test Ukrainian war refugees for all kinds of infectious diseases, including the corona virus. OECD figures show that only one third of the Ukrainian population has been double vaccinated against corona. This is mainly about 60-plussers. If we compare that to Flanders, it's pretty low. Even the vaccination rate against polio and measles is relatively low at 85 % and 82 %, respectively. You might be able to draw the licence card here, but I assume you won't. Ukrainian refugees can apply for a special status in our country that is valid for one year. With this they can get an A card, with which they can join the compulsory health insurance. They can also apply for a BIS number, a social security identification number and be vaccinated voluntarily with that number. I have a few questions about that. I'm sure you're eager to answer them. Are Ukrainian war refugees systematically tested for infectious diseases? If that's the case, when will that screening take place? What infectious diseases will these victims of the war in Ukraine be tested for? What are the results of these tests? How many Ukrainian war refugees have requested a BIS number? What proportion of Ukrainian war refugees have applied with that BIS number to be vaccinated against corona? Which part of it has been effectively vaccinated in the meantime? In Ukraine, among other things, vaccinations were carried out with Russian Sputnik V and Chinese Sinovac. Since neither vaccine has been approved in our country, I would like to hear from you how this is taken into account and what the vaccination status is or will be of the Ukrainian war refugees concerned for our government. In other words, is vaccination with a vaccine that our country and the European Union do not recognise in one way or another? Can Ukrainian war refugees in our country also be vaccinated against infectious diseases such as polio and measles? If so, to what extent does this happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u20	Minister, since the Russian invasion of Ukraine many people have fled their country, mainly women and children. Every day horrible images come to us that show that citizens are not spared. Belgium decided rather quickly to keep 150 beds free for war victims. The Belgian offer has been reported to the European Union, which coordinates the possible reception and distribution of Ukrainian patients in European hospitals. In addition to the 150 beds already made available, are there plans for further scaling, should this prove necessary? Have war victims been transferred yet? According to people from the healthcare sector, such as Margot Cloet, further medical care and coordination will be needed. There are people coming at us in the number of a medium-sized city centre. They haven't all been vaccinated, we know that. There are chronically ill and people who have other needs, as well as people who have suffered trauma. You have already stated that consideration is being given to the creation of concerns in cooperation with the Communities. Can you tell me more about that? In the first-line zone where I live there is already such a concern, so I suppose there is already progress in that area. Thanks to the very successful vaccination campaign, the covid crisis in Belgium is now fairly well under control. In Ukraine, the vaccination rate against covid, but also against other diseases, is significantly lower. Is there any study with the Länder on how we can test the people who arrive here for covid and offer them a vaccine? Is that what's happening through the worries? Is it being examined whether we can offer their other vaccines, possibly in cooperation with those concerns? What role can the federal government play in this and what should the Länder do? How is our healthcare sector, both primary care and hospitals, prepared for the expected additional medical care both physically and mentally? Is a coordination plan being put in place for this purpose? Is additional resources provided?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u21	Mr Minister, first of all, those facing war often develop traumas. So it could be that Ukrainian refugees coming to our country need psychological guidance. I would have liked to have heard from you about the efforts you have already made in this regard. Do you think psychological support is needed? Did you also link an age study to that? For example, do you have special facilities for children who come from war zone and have to build a new life here, go to a new school and leave their home and sometimes parents behind? What are your specific plans regarding psychological support for children and young people? How much budget did you allocate for that? The competent State Secretary has also made a number of statements on the guidance of Ukrainian refugees in the press. To what extent have you also consulted him and provided a project on psychological assistance and planning for Ukrainian citizens? Secondly, the federal government has a number of obligations towards civilians entering our country from a war zone. In accordance with Article 29 of the Reception Act, the recipient of the reception may be subject to a compulsory medical examination for reasons of public health. To what extent did you organise a screening? How does that work out? Which authorities are competent? If you did not organize that, I would have liked to know why not. A few things have already been put in place, but who pays what? How are the costs distributed? Have you made any arrangements on this? Have you worked out a plan or framework with the competent State Secretary? Is that framework clearly publicly available? The degree of vaccination against COVID by the Ukrainians is not that high, as my colleagues have already mentioned. This is also the case for other vaccines. How did you anticipate this? Concerns are being organised. What means are in favour of this? How are the resources distributed? The federal policy level will cover the costs of the necessary medical examinations. This concerns the reimbursement of the work of the caregivers. How is the distribution with the Länder regulated? Has that been knocked off yet? The discussion on who is paying for the booster shot is still ongoing. What about the cost of vaccination against corona and diseases such as measles, mumps, rubella, diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis? What is the timing for the vaccination of the upcoming Ukrainians? Will they be escorted to the medical centers immediately? To what extent are they prepared to be vaccinated? As this is not mandatory for our citizens, so is those arriving in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u22	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u23	Minister, on 2 March, the university hospitals asked in a letter to concentrate the care of war victims as much as possible in the military hospital of Lower Over Heembeek. As a reason, they give up safety, expertise and the fact that care is still being overtaken in the regular hospital sector. It seems logical to me that victims of war should initially be cared for in a military hospital. I asked Minister Dedonder what the capacity of the Military Hospital was for the Easter holidays. Then, to my surprise, only 25 beds were available and then only for patients with burns. In the meantime, how many victims of war have been transported to Belgium? In which hospitals and in which provinces or regions are they taken care of? Is it university hospitals or general hospitals? How's the distribution? What do you think of the fact that the military hospital can only accommodate 25 patients and then only for specific injuries? Shouldn't the military hospital be able to play a greater role in times of crisis, especially in a war situation? What agreements have been made with the Defense Department on crisis situations? Will you ask your colleague to provide more capacity in the military hospital in the future, including for other pathologies, such as polytraumata, especially when we are dealing with war? This seems particularly important to me in order to safeguard regular hospital capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u24	Mr Minister, in the Doctor's Newspaper of 31 March 2022, we read that the RIZIV is developing an arrangement to ensure the first medical reception of Ukrainian refugees in the central areas of concern. The main aim is to collect medical data from the refugees, to start first treatments, to provide pregnancy guidance and to guide them in our health care system. The areas of concern will also be the subject of psychological assistance from the mental health networks. What is the concrete state of play in relation to the concerns? Where is the consultation going and who is involved? How is that financially budgeted, because it's something new after all? Where are the resources coming from and how much resources are being made available for them? There are mobile teams. What is the real meaning of this? What profiles will the mobile teams man? Where did they come from? How will you work out psychological aid for refugees, given the long waiting lists already in place in the sector for our own people?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u25	Mr President, Minister, I would like to address two points. The first concerns the care of refugees. As many questions have already been asked on this subject, I would simply like to stress the fragility of a number of them and to return to the care, coordination, psychological aid, the issue of language and assistance for hospitals which should include interpreters, ad hoc funding for the care of these patients, both for their accessibility and for the financing of hospitals. Some of the refugees suffer from chronic diseases. I heard your opening, and by the way, some nephrologists have responded with regard to the dialysis patients. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this type of patient is difficult to mobilize because they need either daily peritoneal dialysis or every 48 hours in haemodialysis. I invite you to evaluate things in the other direction. Medical equipment was sent, but to my knowledge, nothing specific for chronic non-movable patients. I am thinking of the call of Ukrainian nephrologists to obtain dialysis equipment, in order to help these patients in the particularly delicate situation on the spot. The second part concerns war-wounded people. A European commitment provides for the release of 150 hospital beds for future war wounded in Ukraine. I confess that I do not understand why this postponement of charges to general hospitals, and more particularly to university hospitals, when they are still faced with the closure of beds due to covid-19, involving the postponement of care of other patients. The hospitals have asked you – and you have not, to my knowledge, yet answered – about the importance of a centralized reception of these potential war wounded at the Military Hospital. This is all the more important from a safety point of view in the case of, for example, chemical, biological or even nuclear warfare. University hospitals would make particularly well-trained personnel available to the Military Hospital if necessary. Minister, you must understand how impossible and irrelevant it seems to me, in relation to the management, that these wounded from this war should be sent to the general hospitals. I urge you that the government proactively activate the procedure to the Military Hospital if many of the wounded were to arrive and be taken care of in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u26	Currently, the number of Ukrainian patients currently admitted to Belgian hospitals is still very limited. In the coming period, more patients could be accommodated through the European Medical Evacuation Mechanism. Various hospitals and physician associations have indicated their interest in contributing to the care of these patients, which is to be welcomed. Refugees from Ukraine, under temporary protection status, are in insurable from the moment they register in Ukraine. This therefore immediately opens up the right to insured health care. However, some hospitals and health-care providers appear not to be automatically able to account for health-care benefits. Indeed, every refugee is required, after obtaining his or her visa, to join a mutual fund. On the ground, it is found that a number of refugees are in fact not in insurable order and that therefore the hospital or claimant cannot charge for the services performed, not knowing to which mutual address the invoice. It seems, moreover, very difficult to find Ukrainian patients after their consultation, as they often do not yet have a telephone number or a fixed address. Minister, have the hospital federations ever told you about this problem in terms of billing? Have any specific information been provided to hospitals in this context? Are solutions being considered? Could an automatic membership of CAAMI be considered? Can you communicate the number of Ukrainian refugees who have been or have been taken care of by our hospitals in both hospital and outpatient settings? What measures have been taken to ensure optimal management of health care for these refugees?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u27	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. H annoyance had tabled a question. She can't be there. I would like, without going into the details of her privacy, to wink at her and tell her all my support today in the moments she lives. Minister, to follow the Migration Committee with your colleague Mahdi – I am very interested in the issue of Ukrainian migrants – I would like to ask questions other than those asked by my colleagues. Before being migrants, namely refugees, what defines these Ukrainian people, is the war situation that everyone knows here. Physical, psychological shocks, physical violence, torture, gender-related violence, mourning of relatives, imprisonment, exposure to horrific scenes, the list is unfortunately long of what characterizes a refugee. But beyond these direct consequences of the war, there is a whole series of post-traumatic shocks that are unfortunately quite common in this category of audiences, namely anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, depressions, and even suicides, which has been referenced in particular by Médecins du Monde and Médecins Sans Frontières on the psychological aspect. There is, however, a mental health care staff in these refugee populations who could eventually also help their colleagues here in this reception and psychological follow-up of people in distress from Ukraine. My first question is the following. Would it be possible to envisage a mechanism that would allow access to the profession of these Ukrainian people more quickly? With regard to the specificity of Ukrainian women, since most Ukrainian refugees are known to be Ukrainians, 70 per cent of the 39,500 refugees registered in Belgium are women. Particular attention will be paid to this category of refugees, in particular in terms of access to gynaecological consultations, for example. I know that work is being done with your colleague Mrs Schlitz in terms of risk and attention to victims of trafficking and trafficking in human beings from Ukraine. I think these are cross-cutting issues in many of your jurisdictions within the government. These were the two questions I wanted to ask in addition to those of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will give an integrated answer with a specific explanation of the questions put by Mr Prévot and Mrs Depoter. Through its circular 2022/91 of 15 March, RIZIV confirmed the right to medical benefits in kind for displaced persons from Ukraine. Registration with the sickness fund shall take effect retroactively from the first day of the quarter in which the refugee registers his arrival in Belgium. When registering with a sickness fund, we assume that refugees currently have no income. Ukrainian refugees are therefore entitled to an increased allowance once they are registered. I would therefore like to reply immediately to the questions that have been raised about the budgetary provision. This is, of course, open-ended financing. That makes sense, too. That is also true for Belgians or residents of our country who enjoy our health insurance. People get refunds and compensations according to their needs. That's not a closed budget. We will fully integrate these people into health insurance in an open budgetary approach, and we also assume that they are primarily people who are entitled to the increased compensation. Mr. Prévot noted practical problems that were real. To be precise, I will answer you in Dutch. Don't blame me, Mr. Prévot. I am aware of the practical problems arising from the invoicing of care provided when people concerned have not yet been able to register with a sickness fund. On the one hand, the principle that the right should be opened from the first day of the quarter in which the registration took place, but I also insisted that a technical solution should be developed by the Foreign Affairs Office to assign a national register number at the time of registration on the Heizel, or a BIS number which, when registered in the municipality, automatically turns into a national register number. At the same time, the RIZIV consults with the Foreign Affairs Office and with the sickness funds on a concrete approach to organising registration with a sickness fund on the occasion of registration at the Heizel. There is a willingness in principle among the sickness funds to do so, but this remains to be worked out in practice. I believe that this is an answer to the problems you have raised, Mr Prévot. If we can do all this, the practical difficulties should be solved immediately. There was also a demand for hospital capacity, including Mrs Vanpeborgh. I can confirm that an initial capacity of 150 Belgian hospitalization beds has indeed been made available. That is about 10% of the capacity to be reserved in the wake phase in our general hospitals and university hospitals in the number of beds for covid patients. That number can, of course, evolve, if necessary, and is therefore not a permanent closed situation. The Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee is closely monitoring the situation within hospitals every day and is also closely involved in this dossier to ensure that the burden within our hospitals is properly spread and that hospitals are able to deal with it in an acceptable manner. We register federally in the European support mechanism and actively cooperate within the European procedures, in particular within the "Standard Operation Procedure for Allocating Ukrainian Hospital Patients throughout the EU" developed by DG Santé, in collaboration with DG Echo. This means that immediate neighbouring countries, Poland, Moldova, Slovakia, take care of the acute patients, stabilise them and then call on the European system. Belgium offers help within that system and Europe ensures matching supply and demand. So far, one patient has been assigned to us through the system. That patient arrived in Belgium on 14 April and was hospitalized at the university hospital Sart-Tilman in Liège. In a way, that was still limited for the time being, but we are ready for this European-organised solidarity. Then there were questions about the role of the Military Hospital. Mrs Fonck, Mrs Gijbels and others asked why this military hospital cannot do more, including in response to what the University Hospitals Council said about it. Our Hospital & Transport Committee Surge Capacity consults with the military hospital. Now there is something, ladies and gentlemen, which makes sense, but is not so obvious in practice. It makes perfect sense to say, "War victims are admitted to a military hospital." The patients for whom the European system is being used today are, however, the victims of war, but they are not necessarily wounded soldiers. No, it's refugees who are sick or have somehow been injured. To be honest, that makes the choice for a military hospital less obvious. We must also acknowledge that, in addition to a number of niche services in which the Medical Component of Defense really excels, such as the Burn Center, the Military Hospital itself no longer has the capacity of an average hospital as one might hope. That is, of course, the result, Mrs Fonck, of some years of disinvestment and savings. That is the reality. With all due respect, therefore, for the Medical Component, we must also admit that the way my colleague, Minister Dedonder, describes this capacity is in line with reality: capacity is limited. Moreover, Mrs Dedonder has ordered a study on the future and future dimensioning of the Military Hospital, which is still ongoing and in which my administration is also involved. This study determines what we can expect from the hospital in the future. In the Military Hospital, we can handle a number of things in an excellent way, especially the burn problem. But for the rest, it would not be correct to say that patients from the target group of Ukrainian refugees would all end up as a priority in that hospital that is now fully ready. I don't think that's obvious. Immediately, it was said that the reception of Ukrainian refugees is once again a major challenge for the whole healthcare sector, as well as good reception and housing, education and employment are important priorities. A number of members have made a very correct reference here to specific risks associated with endemic infectious diseases within this target group, as well as to the fact that vaccination rates against covid and a number of other pathologies in Ukraine are generally low. Our RAG and RMG have also picked that up in a specific advice. The Risk Assessment Group, which also involves the Länder, has assessed the risks. They say that the risk related to a number of specific infectious diseases is generally low, but there is still a risk. For example, tuberculosis is more common in Ukraine than elsewhere. In addition, we talk about preventing infectious diseases such as measles and polio by vaccination. A strategy on screening has therefore been developed in the Risk Management Group, in which the Länder also actively participate. This strategy is being implemented in practice, with the exchange of good practice with general practitioners' associations. The registration of infectious diseases is primarily the responsibility of the Länder. Therefore, I do not have any figures here with regard to the number of positive screenings. But the guidelines are clear. I also assume that this approach will be properly implemented and followed. The Länder have also been genuinely committed to this. I also think this is going relatively smoothly. Also in the IMC Public Health the Ukraine problem is regularly addressed. In relation to the catching up of a number of vaccinations, such as measles and polio vaccinations, information and awareness is provided through the competent bodies of the Länder such as Child and Family and ONE. Of course, it is important for Ukrainian parents of children to be informed about the importance of these vaccinations if their children have not yet been vaccinated. For covid vaccination, cooperation with vaccination centres shall be established. If there was a previous vaccination with an unapproved vaccine in Belgium, this person is unfortunately considered not to be vaccinated and a vaccination with a vaccine approved in our country will be proposed. Our vaccination centres do not keep separate lists of the number of persons of Ukrainian origin with an INSZ-BIS number that they vaccinate, so I cannot give exact figures. Undoubtedly, many of these people's questions will end up with general practitioners and pharmacists, and sometimes also with hospitals. It is therefore important to organise properly the provision of support and care, particularly in the first line. It was referred to in the questions: the Flemish family doctor's association Domus Medica asked whether we would not help our general practitioners by setting up specific areas of concern. This means that Ukrainian refugees are being brought together in certain places to centres where general practitioners are available, as well as nurses and where psychological support may be available. I thought that was an excellent idea and immediately consulted with Domus Medica and with the regions. I can tell you that this is not a simple exercise. There is a great deal of difference in the regions, the situations are very heterogeneous in the field, but we are working on it. Today there has been a consultation with the Länder on the concrete organisation and support of such concerns, including with federal financial resources. This has been the subject of a decisive discussion today. A consensus has also been reached on this consultation, although it has called for some consultation. On the basis of that consensus, I will submit a proposal to the Insurance Committee on Monday for approval and immediate implementation on the basis of the technique of a convention. This means that we can rely on various programmes and projects, such as the agreements with BELTA and FARES on intensive home treatment for MDR-TB, such as intercultural mediation, such as primary psychological care, RIZIV-supported activities of organizations such as Doctors of the World, the Born project in Brussels, etc. On Monday, I'd like to knock that off on the Insurance Committee. Then it'll be a matter of looking into who's playing on it. For me, that should not be evenly spread everywhere. That's an offer that's open. Both in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels, we will be able to respond to this. I understand that Domus Medica is really interested, but I can imagine that it is more needed in larger centres than in a small rural municipality. It's open. Mrs Vanpeborgh, I am glad to hear from you that part of this reality is already under way. There will be support that will allow for permanence and that we will be able to mobilise all these networks well. I was asked about the budget for this. The funds are provided, we have a Ukraine commission. We must not worry about this, we must not worry about it. As far as I'm concerned, it's not a closed budget either. By the way, if we did not get out of Ukraine's commission, we could still use the funds provided for in the administrative costs of the RIZIV, if necessary. So we will find a budgetary path. We should not come here immediately with a closed budget. We simply have to respond to the needs that exist on the ground in a correct way, with a proper organisation. This will relieve our general practitioners. If there are needs, they will eventually end up in the system, they will end up with the general practitioners or in the hospitals. So I do not immediately feel the need to formulate a closed budget. We will provide all the necessary financial resources for this. Mrs Depoorter, you have called for special attention to be paid to mental health care. I would like to answer that in a more general sense, but the concern is absolutely justified. The psychosocial managers of the FPS Health are following the meeting of the federal coordination committee, COFECO, which has been caught up in this crisis. In those meetings, the question was asked to support the coordination of psychosocial assistance through a working group on Psychosocial Support and Protection Exploiting. The mission has been included to identify and streamline the initiatives of psychosocial support, prevention and protection of abuse and trafficking in human beings. Among other things, a meeting was organised with the partners of various federated entities responsible for psychosocial support. It is about sharing information, pooling initiatives, communicating well. Among other things, information is available through the info-ukraine.be website. The aim is to ensure maximum complementarity and cross-fertilisation through the pooling of initiatives, through global communication on psychosocial support and protection initiatives. In addition, an initial inventory of various initiatives was made from the existing inter-kabinettes working group on mental health. That inventory was delivered to COFECO and the RMG. In addition to what is happening in the Länder, the federal reimbursement of psychological care and mobile teams, as well as the use of intercultural mediators through videoconferencing, can be used. The care providers concerned will be trained through a webinar to make use of these mediators. The range and added value of intercultural mediation is also brought to the attention of the general practitioners. The RIZIV has therefore sent a letter to all healthcare providers and the mental health networks about the insurability of these Ukrainian refugees, when they are registered and their access to health insurance, so that there can be no doubt about that. With regard to the organisation of care, it is very important that we offer low-threshold mental health care, including to this group, along with basic care, and that there is also scope for psycho-education. We need to pay attention to pregnant women, to the many children, but also to the caregivers and families who take care of the refugees. The Länder have received a list of all the coordinators of our local networks. They are available to make psychological care available very concretely together with local organisations that receive refugees. I think that is very important. Part of the work is still under construction, especially the concerns, the crowning glory of the work to be done. It is an important challenge for our mental health networks, for example, to really stand ready and fulfil this mission. I do not doubt the good will and ambition of the people, but it is a bit of a litmus test for the quality of our organisation. So we are working hard on it, in constant consultation with the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u29	Minister, you have answered some of my questions and some others have not, whether or not you do not have the figures yet. As far as infectious diseases are concerned, you said that the general practitioners screen them. Is that passive or active? Are people who, for example, present with a flu and passerby tested for all kinds of infectious diseases? You can answer that later. In the meantime, I've been running the numbers again. Yeah, they're still up-to-date. Only a third of Ukrainians have been fully vaccinated and I cannot imagine that these figures have changed substantially in recent months, with the appalling Russian invasion. The vaccinees are mainly 65-plussers and this vaccination has often happened with a vaccine that has not been approved here, namely a Russian vaccine or a Chinese vaccine. I also asked what the vaccination status of these people is when they offer themselves here for.......................................................................................................................................................... You did not reply to that either. I wonder how this is taken into account, because if we proceed to follow-up shots here, we will have a heterologous vaccination, with vaccines of which we do not know the consequences. On the other hand, I am pleased that you seem to follow this up fairly well, in cooperation with the Länder. I would like to insist that you continue to do so. A low degree of vaccination against corona, but also against polio or measles, poses not only a health risk to Ukrainian refugees, but also, of course, to our own people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed, very concrete and reassuring answers. As far as hospital capacity is concerned, you say that it is 150 beds but that this number can still evolve and that it is being followed very closely. It will have to be done in hospitals for understandable reasons, but it is reassuring that this is being properly followed up. There's also really a clear system behind it. First of all, we are talking about the surrounding countries and, if there is stability, they may be forwarded to us. As far as vaccination is concerned, you have also replied very comfortingly and clearly that the Länder are involved, which is good to hear. They take up their duties. It will be discussed in the Inter-Ministerial Conference, but the Risk Assessment Group and Risk Management Group are also working intensively on this. On your third point, the concerns, I share your opinion. I think that is a really good initiative. In our first-line zone, I notice that this works particularly well. People arriving will be referred immediately. They get a free appointment. The vaccinations are all checked immediately, Mr Creyelman, even if they are vaccines other than those we know. So there really is knowledge and know-how, which is really well looked at. The only downside I hear and that I just want to give is that not everyone comes to those appointments. That is very unfortunate, because these agreements are a way of getting control of them. As far as mental health is concerned, I am very pleased to hear that the intercultural mediators are being retiring. That's very important. I notice that there is also attention to the caregivers and the families that people receive. The reactions resulting from what these people have been through are often underestimated, but this has to be dealt with. I often see that people don't know how to deal with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As far as Article 29 of the Reception Act is concerned, screening is indeed a federal competence, as you mentioned more or less as you will work through the commission of 800 million. I understand that you cannot put a closed budget in front of you, but the fact that a commission is being reworked, as has been the case several times during the covid pandemic, and there is no estimate, is a matter of concern to me. The average cost of health insurance for the healthy citizen, for the 90% that spends the least, is EUR 693 per year according to the 2021 figures. Extrapolated to 200,000 refugees coming here, that amounts to 138 million euros. So, out of your 800 million, 138 million goes to the non-sick people who stay here during the crisis. It would be a success if they could all return within a year. However, you also know that this may not be the case. Even if we have an agreement tomorrow, the reconstruction of Ukraine will still take a long time. I know it's not the strong point of the Vivaldi government, but I still urge you to use some financial orthodoxy in this one. Prime Minister De Croo has promised 800 million to Mrs von der Leyen, but most of it was actually intended to be used here. The amount you have provided will not suffice. I think it would be more appropriate, then, to work with estimates and to register budgets and ensure that there are agreements with the Länder and to follow them correctly so that everyone knows what is expected of each other. Of course, every level will accept its responsibility. That has always been the case in this cooperation so far. Mr Prévot has already mentioned registration. As a pharmacist, I replaced my staff during the Easter holidays. I've had some Ukrainians on the floor who did have a national registry number, but no refund. Then it is very difficult, because then it is the families who are temporarily responsible for the costs. It is retroactive, but when it comes to antiepileptics, for example, it becomes quite expensive. It is not because one has a national register number that one receives direct reimbursement. Often the flow of information is not optimal and one is ignorant in the pharmacy. It is already very loyal that the families help in this crisis and come with the people to the pharmacy, often to translate, but it cannot be the intention that they or the pharmacist should advance the sum. That may need to be dealt with again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u32	Mr President, I have asked a lot of questions about how to deal with this crisis, especially about the health care for these Ukrainian refugees. I have received answers to that and I am therefore satisfied.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u33	Minister, with regard to the specific question about the Military Hospital and the limited capacity to deal with war victims, you are trying to minimize that, but I believe that the question raised by university hospitals is quite right. You cannot say that that question was asked by people with little knowledge. They are people who are very worried about the existing hospital capacity, which is still catching up with a lot of work. You're saying this isn't about war injuries, but of course it can still happen. I find it irresponsible that the Military Hospital is currently only able to cover 25 victims, then only for burns. We still have to ask ourselves about this preparedness. What if we're dealing with war injuries? What if the war gets closer? Then what shall we do? We should not only prepare for a next covid wave, there are several threats on which we must prepare ourselves as best we can. Apparently, the hospital capacity of the Military Hospital cannot be scaled up, even in wartime. At the same time, however, I hear that two full floors of the Military Hospital are being occupied by the Brugmann Hospital and that apparently no arrangements have been made to evacuate them if necessary. Such a solution can be found in peacetimes, but not in wartimes. You are still talking to the Military Hospital, so I think you yourself are not entirely satisfied with the way things are going. I hope that you will soon record this with your colleague, Mr Dedonder. These hospitals are still suffering from the sufferings of COVID-19 and the refugees from Ukraine who are still joining them can be very difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. The answer to the concerns was not very satisfactory, but you probably cannot do it because it has not yet been worked out. I share your view that this is a very good and well-intentioned idea, but I do wonder where you will get people to manage the concerns. We've just had two years of corona crisis, hopefully, in which the care has been under pressure and is under pressure. They certainly haven't recovered from those two years. The same caregivers will now also have to take care of the crew of the concerns and therefore the care of Ukrainian refugees. Don't get me wrong, I think the concerns are a good idea and Ukrainian refugees who need care should also get them. I doubt the feasibility of all this. We must not lose sight of the fact that there is a lot of delayed care to catch up on and that there are huge waiting lists in mental health care, to name but two problems. I hope, together with you, that these concerns will be met, so that it is not only a good idea but also a feasible idea. However, as I have said, I have some doubts about its feasibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answer. I once again welcome the mobilization of caregivers and volunteers on the ground who are doing enormously, in a difficult context, for Ukrainian refugees who are ill. Helping on the spot is very good and you have to do it. But there is a stake in helping Ukraine. I come back to my suggestion about the equipment and chronic patients (chronic dialysis) that are not or not very mobilizable. It seems to me that we have the ability to send dialysis equipment to the site to respond to calls. With respect to funding, you say that you will settle the aspects related to invoices. There is what is taken into account by health insurance and what is not. You need to keep a close eye on two issues: first, it cannot be the responsibility of hospitals and health-care providers; second, it cannot be the responsibility of host families, which would be indecent given all the efforts they are already making. You need to keep an eye on it and anticipate it in order to solve these problems that will arise. As far as the military hospital is concerned, I did not say that it has to deal with all health care problems related to Ukraine. All uninjured Ukrainian patients and refugees who require specialized treatment in oncology, dialysis, etc. are and will continue to be cared for by civilian hospitals. I was talking about the war wounded. In my view, the military hospital must be the main actor for this type of injury, even if it is to receive additional expertise from civilian hospitals. Minister, we have few doctors in a position to deal with major war injuries. However, there are security requirements and you are not the spokesman for the military hospital, but the Minister of Health. In relation to this, you must be extremely attentive to the burden that would be postponed, in an impossible and unacceptable way to civilian hospitals if a large number of war wounded arrived in Belgium and were dispatched there. Re-discuss with the Minister of Defence: the military hospital is able to become a crisis hospital, provided of course that it wills and is redeployed operationally. There are more than 25 beds in the military hospital. You've been there before, I imagine, or you'll find out. There are more than 25 beds in the military hospital. Some, as my colleague said, are busy. You have to see how to organize things. Beyond the situation in Ukraine and the possibility for severe war wounded to arrive at our home, there is an issue in our country with regard to the future and the need to equip ourselves with a crisis hospital. We need it, beyond the problem of burns for which this military hospital is in my opinion the preferred actor. We don't know what the future holds and govern, minister, that's foretelling. We have lived the covid, we are now living the situation in Ukraine. No one knows what will be done tomorrow and I think that in terms of health, health crisis policy, we have important issues to anticipate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u36	Minister, thank you for your full answer. I had stressed the very practical aspect of what we had on the ground, namely the insurability of Ukrainians in our territory. I hear you've also heard of these problems. I have been contacted by hospital staff and other health care providers, as well as representatives of CPAS. In general, when you don't know who to turn to, you push their doors. This is very good, because you must never be ashamed of doing so, as CPAS is often of great help. However, the workers themselves are sometimes diverted and destabilized in view of the role they must assume in the management of the post-war crisis. I have heard with satisfaction that you have taken the case in arm-to-body and that solutions are emerging in order to take care of the people from the first day. This also means providing them with a national registry number. Of course, that is eminently essential. I hope that all of this will be in order and that good communication will be disseminated to hospitals, health care providers, and CPAS, so that every link in the chain is notified and receives the right information in order to pass it on to the public concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answers, which reassure me in part. During my visit with some of my colleagues at the Ukrainian Refugee Registration Centre in Heysel, I saw the high proportion of women and children and, at the same time, the great disparity in the specific measures for the care of these people in terms of both physical and mental health. I hear that in the meantime measures have been taken and widespread, which is positive. I can only encourage you in your business, with the Office for Foreigners but also with the mutuals, to ensure that asylum seekers can register with a mutual on arrival. I shall return briefly to three points. With regard to tuberculosis, you explain to us that the risk of contagion is low, but that you do not have access to data on the possible positive detection of this disease because it would be the responsibility of the federated entities. I am surprised, especially from the moment you announced to me in plenary that on 23 March you had convened an interministerial conference which had allowed preventive and curative measures to be adopted. From then on, I think the exchange of data should be self-evident, which does not seem to be the case with your answer. Besides, you assured me that screening would be systematic. Here too, I must insist that this screening must be possible as long as we have to welcome new refugees on our soil, which could last for a long time, given the seriousness of the situation in Ukraine. However, it seems to me that I have not obtained a clear commitment to this. Regarding covid, you tell us that if the person has been vaccinated with a vaccine that has not been approved by the European Medicines Agency, he will be considered unvaccinated and we will ensure that he/she is offered another vaccine that will be approved by the European Union. It is finally common sense, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that two thirds of Ukrainians are not vaccinated at all, mainly because of the fears expressed about vaccines in general. Two vaccines were proposed from the outset in Ukraine: either the Russian Sputnik vaccine (which was banned a year ago by the Ukrainian government) or the Chinese Sinovac vaccine. In my view, an important piece of information is to be done to reassure Ukrainian refugees who have not been vaccinated arriving in Belgium in order to explain to them that the vaccines available in our country have been checked, which is not the case with the two vaccines available in Ukraine. Finally, I realized that, on the info-ukraine.be website, there was a lot of useful information for Ukrainian refugees on reimbursement of health care, care professionals and vaccines. This extremely useful information is used only in French and Dutch. For tuberculosis, this information is only available in Dutch. It is important to ensure that this very important and interesting information is also available in English but especially in Ukrainian. The Partenamut mutual did. We must also be able to do so via this info-ukraine.be information site.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u38	Dear colleague, the wholesaler's margin is the responsibility of the Minister of Economy. I have therefore consulted with his services to provide you with the answers to your questions. With regard to your first question, the SPF Economy carried out in June 2021 a brief analysis concerning the margin of wholesalers. It shows that in 2019, two companies together accounted for 68% of the total turnover of the sector. There was a decrease in the weighted average net margin between 2014 and 2019, with a sharp fall in 2017. There was a decrease in the weighted average gross operating margin between 2014 and 2019, confirming the downward trend in the company margin. This confirms the decrease in the net margin cited by the federations. The Economy FPS calculated the weighted average net margin for 2019, which was 0.2%. With regard to your second question concerning the introduction of a system for indexing the margin of wholesalers, this requires a more detailed analysis, in particular of the financial consequences this would entail for health care, since this would then become a cost for health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u39	If I relayed this question, it was to avoid what you quote in your answer: 68% of the turnover is generated by two companies. Comeos points to this fact as a situation of duopoly or even monopoly, which could lead to an obvious decrease in the quality of services, but could also have consequences for pharmacies and ultimately for patients. Thank you for taking the lead with the Minister of Economy, which saves me from asking him a question. I will certainly return to you once the reflection has been expanded.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u40	Minister, last year Secretary of State Schlitz proposed her national action plan against gender-based violence, a plan of 201 measures. However, few of these measures have a specific budget. We have asked Secretary of State Schlitz several times about the concrete implementation of certain measures and the budgets that may be foreseen. This specific question concerns measure 51, which states that resources will be made available for the training of medical personnel in relation to intra-family violence, domestic violence and female genital mutilation. Mrs Schlitz referred us to you, so I would like to ask you if you have provided a budget to implement this measure. In last year's budget format, we read that, overall, 15% linear savings are being made in health care. Isn't that a contradiction? Mrs Schlitz does not answer our questions and has referred us to you with the question of making the various ministers responsible for the implementation of this plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u41	Mr President, I have tabled a question on the same subject and I am surprised that it was not attached to Mrs Merckx's. So I'd like to know if I can put it down.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u42	Mrs Rohonyi, your question on a broader subject, it seems better for you to put it separately.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. I will listen to the answer given to my colleague, which will allow me to elaborate on my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u44	Mrs Merckx, in the budget, to be precise in BA 25 51 43 12.11.15, an annual amount of EUR 65,000 is provided for the training of healthcare staff in hospitals in relation to intra-familial and sexual violence and female genital mutilation and for the development of tools to assist care staff in the detection, treatment and follow-up of victims of intra-familial and sexual violence and female genital mutilation. It is true that this is situated within my services. Since 2009, therefore, on behalf of the Minister of Health, regular training cycles have been organised for hospital care providers for the detection, treatment and follow-up of victims of intrafamilial and sexual violence and female genital mutilation. During the COVID-19 pandemic, an online learning path for hospital care professionals was developed on sexual violence. I would also like to see such an online learning path developed for intra-family violence, as well as specific modules on the target groups of older people and children within the above mentioned learning paths. It is being considered whether additional resources can be used in the framework of covid for the development of these online learning paths. The basic training on female genital mutilation will also be offered in 2022 and will be refinanced through the State budget in the aforementioned basic allocation. In addition, initiatives will be taken to support general practitioners on detection, guidance and referral of victims of intra-family and sexual violence and female genital mutilation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u45	Thank you for the short, concrete answer. I understand that EUR 65,000 is foreseen every year. It is just not clear whether this is a new or an existing budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u46	I don't think this is a new budget, but I'm not 100% sure. I don't know when that's planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u47	We will look up the number in the report and see if it was there last year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u48	The merged questions and interplay No. 55525443C) by Mrs Fonck, No. Mr Boukili and Mr No 55000268I 55027038C by Mrs Rohonyi are postponed at their request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u49	Mr President, the Royal Decree laying down the conditions and modalities under which the National Institute for Sickness and Invalidity Insurance grants financial compensation for the operation of the General Union of the Nurses of Belgium - AUVB - was approved at the Council of Ministers of 18 February 2022 and signed by the King on 24 February 2022. It was published in the Official Journal on March 25, 2022. It entered into force on 1 April 2022. This Royal Decree has the programme law of 2 January 2001 as a legal basis and regulates the financing modalities for a period of three years, namely 2022-2024. Compared to previous years, the draft does not contain any additional conditions. It is identical to the previous Royal Decree, with the exception of the years and the amount adjusted annually to reflect the consumer price index on 1 March of the year in question. Thus, the financial impact is EUR 403.962.80 for the year 2022. 75% of that amount shall be paid before 31 March or, as regards 2022, in the month following the publication of the Royal Decree. The remaining 25% shall be paid after audit of the annual accounts if sufficient expenses incurred in the representation are demonstrated. The amount shall be allocated to the financing of the running costs of the AUVB and the associations of nurses who are part of it, in particular for their participation in meetings of federal bodies in which they are located.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic757x.u50	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we must of course provide an organisation with resources. It is therefore a good thing that this is settled. However, when we look at the spectrum of nurses, there is not always a one-on-one representation by the organisations. For example, many self-employed home nurses are not affiliated to a professional association. In the covid pandemic, we discovered the problem that we couldn't find them all to distribute, for example, PPE's. A subsequent review of a KB or at a subsequent consultation could perhaps look at how much of the home nurses are members of such a professional organisation and how we could create the framework through that organisation so that we can reach the people immediately in the event of crises.
