ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic667x.u1	Colleagues, thank you for the invitation I would like to take up with my colleague Van der Straeten. As for offshore wind energy on our North Sea, the first windmills were installed in 2009, but the first legal framework dates back to 2014. Belgium was then the first country with a marine spatial plan. It identified a first renewable energy zone with an area of 225 km2. Today there are 399 windmills in that zone, providing energy production of 2,262 GW of renewable energy. This puts Belgium in fifth place in the European zone, after the United Kingdom, Germany, the Netherlands and Denmark, and worldwide we are sixth place in the production of wind energy at sea. In 2017, a revision of the marine spatial plan was launched. In 2019 a second marine spatial plan was established, covering the period 2020-2026. It identified an additional area for offshore wind energy, now 281 km2, for the production, transmission and storage of renewable energy. That zone was named after Princess Elisabeth, on the occasion of her eighteenth birthday. I would like to stress that it was far from obvious to provide windmills in the Belgian part of the North Sea, a total of 3.454 km2, similar to the size of a province, as there is already a lot of activity in our North Sea, including fishing, sand mining, pleasure boating and military activities. Moreover, the North Sea is also very busy sailing. The main shipping routes are therefore located right in our North Sea. On top of that, as much as 37% of the North Sea is coloured as a nature reserve. So it is anything but obvious to always find room for that. However, we already live compactly in Belgium. In any case, we have succeeded in bringing this great challenge to a successful conclusion. On the red side, you have the areas that have been marked for wind production, and on the right side, in green, are the areas designated as habitat and the "Birds Directive" area. The Princess Elizabeth area is divided into three parts. To the left, at the bottom, is an area of 168 km2 located in a Natura 2000 area. There are 67 km2 adjacent to Natura 2000, and only 46 km2 are located outside Natura 2000. Since most of the areas are considered Natura 2000 areas, the sector has been widely consulted, as have nature protection organisations. It is thanks to the openness of the players that today, 14% of our North Sea is designated as a renewable energy development area. This is a relatively high figure. In order to accurately measure the impact of wind turbines in the natural area and conduct an assessment, 25 studies were launched in collaboration with the Belgian Offshore Platform (BOP) and a consortium called 4Sea, consisting of WWF, Greenpeace, Natuurpunt and Bond Beer Leefmilieu. These studies have been carried out for more than ten years under the direction of scientists from the Royal Institute of Natural Sciences of Belgium and closely follow the evolution of the marine environment in the first offshore zone, which is therefore to the right on the map from left to red. The study consists of mapping the high-value gravies of the area, for example. It is obvious that no wind turbines can be built on them. In addition, the electromagnetic effect of cables is also being studied in order to verify its impact on the fauna and flora present. The first zone has, as mentioned, a capacity of 2,262 GW. Our National Energy and Climate Plan set the target of 4 GW by 2030. On 15 October 2021, based on a 3E study, we decided to increase the capacity in the Princess Elisabeth zone from 2.1 GW to 3.15 to 3.50 GW. That fork is needed to keep some flexibility in function of the gravel beds I was just talking about. With this additional capacity in the Princess Elisabeth zone, the total capacity in our North Sea will be between 5.4 and 5.8 GW, which is significantly more than the target we had set in our National Climate and Energy Plan. This capacity from 5.4 to 5.8 GW is good for renewable power for 5 million families. However, the scaling-up in the second zone is linked to a number of cross-compliance conditions. The study of 3E first examined the economic feasibility of the capacity increase. In its opinion, however, the CREG stressed the need to take account of the technical feasibility. That investigation is still ongoing. As regards the impact of this scaling-up on costs, I have already answered a question from a member of the committee that according to the study, increasing capacity and density increases the levelized cost of energy (LCOE) by less than 5%. On an annual basis, this would amount to additional costs of around EUR 37 million. As far as the effects on the climate are concerned, compared to our original objective of 2.1 GW, this capacity increase will result in an additional saving of CO2 emissions of just under 2 million tonnes per year. You know that we have chosen the first zone to work with platforms. You will see an illustration on the slide. The Council of Ministers of 23 December 2021 gave the green light to Elia to work for the Princess Elisabeth Zone on the development of an energy island in the North Sea. You know that EUR 100 million has been made available through the European Fund for the construction of the island. Mr Van der Straeten will come back to this in her presentation. As far as my powers are concerned, I would like to stress that the island must be built in a zone adjacent to the Natura 2000 site. In addition to an environmental permit, therefore, there will also have to be a Natura 2000 authorisation. The island will cover about 5 hectares, but it will require a floor covering of about 25 hectares. Elia will therefore have to do the necessary study work to properly calculate the impact of the island on the protected habitat. They also work closely with the Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences for this purpose. Additional commercial activities on the island are not on the agenda. Indeed, in renewable energy zones, access is limited due to its strategic importance. Since Belgium and the North Sea are not isolated, a grid design is also important for the interconnection between the different countries bordering the North Sea. In a European vision reflected in draft Directive 3 on renewable energy, Member States are encouraged by the European Commission to work towards the creation of a mesh grid, a mesh network in which offshore parks and individual Member States will be connected to each other. In my view, it is important that the development of an energy network at sea be based on a European approach plan to be cost effective. In the European Strategy for Renewable Energy at Sea, the European Commission is committed to developing the necessary facilitation measures for marine planning. Indeed, the need to develop energy parks in the North Sea, within the framework of wider agreements between the countries of the North Sea, is more demonstrated than ever, particularly in the dossier on the project for the development of wind turbines in France. I will not go back to this issue, but if there was a plan for the development of marine areas at European level, as there is one in Belgium, this problem would probably not arise. As far as the Belgian situation is concerned, you will no doubt know that there is now a first cable for the exchange of electricity between Belgium and the United Kingdom, the so-called Nemo cable. The federal network development plan for the period 2020-2030 also includes a second interconnection with the United Kingdom, Nautilus. There are currently studies, both in the United Kingdom and with us, on the feasibility and financial cost of that second link. Mr Van der Straeten has, as you know, signed a memorandum of understanding with Denmark to examine a possible connection between our two countries after 2031. I am sure she will provide more information on this. Of course, it is important that the necessary permits are issued for the construction of these cables, which brings me back to my competence. One question that is often asked me, not least by the sector itself, is whether there can be more scope for renewable energy. In other words, next to the first and second zones, is there room for another third zone? I think my predecessor in the revision of the marine spatial plan really got the maximum out of it. I therefore do not think that additional space can be designated within the MRP, as there should also be room for other, economic and recreational activities. On the other hand, we must make the most of the space and, if necessary, re-use it. In re-use, I think mainly of the first zone. The first windmills were built in 2009. These were smaller windmills, from 3 to 5 MW, with a lifespan of about 25 years. Those who can calculate well know that in about ten years' time we will have to have a plan that can also be implemented effectively. The problem is that the current legislative framework for that first zone stipulates that the site must be restored to its original state at the time of the cessation of activity. In the photos taken by the Royal Belgian Institute you can see that the towers of the windmills are under water covered with fauna and flora. If we remove the windmills, this means that we would inevitably destroy not only the towers, but also the now present fauna and flora, which cannot be the intention. We can, of course, leave the windmills, but these excellent obstacles can in turn be a danger to shipping. We need to make a good plan on this. That is why I have already stated in my policy paper that we will be able to start a participatory process with all stakeholders this year, examining the impact of the possible decommissioning or re-use on the marine environment. We will, of course, also draw on the expertise of the Royal Belgian Institute. Once we have received this policy recommendation on that participatory project, we will make the necessary adjustments to the rules. I would also like to refer to the DecomWind project in the port of Ostend. Many organisations, companies, sector organisations, scientific institutions and public authorities are exploring how best to recycle or re-use windmills that have reached the end of their life. The wicks, which are made of plastic, are the biggest challenge. The design of DecomWind is to gather and deploy the necessary knowledge for a circular economy, which can then use the 1,500 windmills that are placed in our country both offshore and onshore. Of course, that DecomWind project has my full support. We'll follow it up, too, from the front row. In addition to the interconnection and reuse of the first offshore zone, I also strongly believe in the future of the blue economy and innovative applications, as we have done for wind turbines. Currently, these innovations are being developed to generate electricity through other energy sources, including floating solar panels. As I mentioned, the biggest challenges for floating solar parks at sea are the development of special solar panel structures capable of resisting high waves at sea as well as salt. In addition, consideration should also be given to how to bring energy to the earth and the impact of these solar parks on the marine environment. I believe that the questions in this regard were raised during the discussion of my policy note. At the end of 2021, the government decided, as you know, to invest two million euros to increase the number of pilot projects and to work on demonstration projects, the long-term objective being the marketing of these products. We want our companies to continue to play a leading role in this promising market. In addition, these solar parks have another advantage in the sense that they can be installed between wind turbines, allowing for the exploitation of currently unused space. We believe that offshore energy zones are not only designated for floating solar panels, but also for aquaculture and passive fisheries. A lot of research is being done on this too. We will, of course, also take this into account when we work out the tender procedure and finally launch it from 2023. We will also consider whether, without any additional security risks, we can also allow pleasure boating in the park. These and other matters are discussed in a task force, which includes representatives of Elia, the CREG and the competent federal administrations in addition to the members of my cabinet and that of Mr Van der Straeten. The aim is to continue the work that we have been doing for some time and then to put the first tender on the market in 2023, and that is, of course, at the best conditions for consumers. Offshore wind energy is today a mature economy. We are also, of course, following developments in our neighbouring countries closely. It is also within this task force that we will work out the necessary regulations. Mr Van der Straeten will also explain this. That was my introductory statement, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I am, of course, prepared to deal with any questions later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic667x.u2	Thank you, Minister, for this very interesting introduction, which was also very clearly substantiated. We look forward to taking a look at this in April or May. Our Minister for Energy, Mrs Van der Straeten, has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic667x.u3	First of all, I'm glad we can organize this moment. The further roll-out and implementation of all the issues cited by Mr Van Quickenborne and also to be discussed further by me are usually via KB's and MB's and are therefore not dealt with directly in Parliament. So this is an opportunity for us to discuss this and hear your feedback and comments. Furthermore, it is also a perfect combination that we can sit here together: the presentation by colleague Van Quickenborne already showed the complementarity of our two policy areas, but also their complexity. If you hear me talk, it will be mainly about energy and energy production, while the North Sea indeed has other functions, for example in the economic field: shipping, pleasure boating, aquaculture. I don't know if all these things have been covered yet. At the same time, there is one of our largest natural areas, part of the Natura 2000 network, which naturally creates limitations and challenges, but also opportunities for these different functions. Thanks to this unique combination of expertise, we will be able to get the best out of the North Sea. The North Sea has been and will continue to be an engine of value creation for us as a country. By developing these activities in the North Sea, the 10th province, as Mr Van Quickenborne often says, many economic actors have found their way. We also carry out this expertise, we export it, think of a small company like GEOxyz, which is starting to roll out its expertise of 'land meters at sea' worldwide. This will continue to be the case in the future, for example with the DecomWind project, which will enable the next steps to be taken forward. This is a very important value chain, both for the province of West Flanders and for our entire country, which shows that we can be great as a small country. That too is what drives Minister Van Quickenborne and myself in this domain. I'll take back what Minister Van Quickenborne said about the Princess Elisabeth Zone. So now there's a second zone. Let us not forget that we are already one of the world's leaders in wind energy today. In ten years we have become the sixth largest wind energy producer in the world. In addition, we will soon be the first to have a wind energy island in the North Sea, which, with the capacity of the Princess Elisabeth zone, will triple our total capacity in the North Sea. In our first zone we developed 2.26 GW in nine projects. For our second zone we aim for a fork of 3.15 to 3.50 GW, considering the gravel beds, to which Minister Van Quickenborne already referred. In total we will be able to produce 5.4 to 5.8 GW. We decided at the Council of Ministers to work on that increase in capacity. There were a number of reasons for that. It was economically possible. This has been mapped out by a study firm at our request. Thanks to the energy island, we will also be able to produce more in the same place. Because our space is limited, we want to make the most of it. That is why we choose innovation, in this case with the energy island. The energy island will ensure that we can effectively connect that increased capacity, without the need for land reinforcements on top of what is already planned today, namely Ventilus and Boucle du Hainaut. The next step in this project is the determination or classification of the lottery tickets. This is done in the ministerial decision concerning the lots, based on availability, locations and gravel beds, from the Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences (KBIN), i.e. with colleague Van Quickenborne. We will also be working out the next royal decision for the tender this year. In 2023, studies and appropriate assessments will be carried out mainly within the framework of the licences. In December 2023, we will launch the royal decree for the tender. The preliminary studies will also be completed at that time. In 2024, the royal decree for the network and the royal decree concerning the liabilities followed, for the first tender. It's scheduled for January. The second phase, concerning the cables, will follow in February 2024. Then we already go towards 2025, 2026, 2027. In 2025, the second and third tender will be launched. In 2026 there is the end of the construction phase of the island. The entry into service of the first park is normally scheduled for the end of the fourth quarter of 2027. It could then be fully operational towards 2030. The installation of the second park is planned for 2028 and the third park for 2029. That timing will of course also be determined by the connections to land and the grid reinforcements, so the projects Ventilus and Boucle du Hainaut. We therefore need several years to be able to roll out and realise the wind projects at sea. Of course, the necessary steps must now be taken to achieve everything step by step. This means that we will have a lot of work to do in this legislative period, in the years to come, in order to be able to roll out these projects properly and ultimately to connect the increased capacity. For example, this North Sea flow will be initiated in 2027 and will be fully operational by 2030 for every Belgian family. That is the amount of electricity that will be produced there. The biggest work ahead of us today is the preparation of the tender. At the moment there is a public consultation on this subject. A consultation document on the call for tenders was launched. This Friday, an event is organized to provide more information to stakeholders and also to explain the consultation document. This is a public consultation that has already started and will continue until February 18. The consultation is used to capture the comments and input of all possible stakeholders and then to draft the royal order for the call for tenders. The text is currently available in English but will be translated into French and Dutch. As far as the various aspects of the consultation document are concerned, I have included them on the slide. First of all, these are costs. It's very important! The intention is to organise the tender at a low cost. The costs must be as low as possible, so that everyone can share in the profits of energy at sea. There are two ways to organize possible support. On the one hand, there is the zero bid mechanism and on the other hand, a two-sided contract for difference. We are waiting for market returns on these two mechanisms to capture what is needed and to know what conditions are favourable for revenue generation for the government. Recently, in Denmark and Scotland, we have seen that the launch of a tender tender in Scotland was somewhat different, with a seabed lease, but in Denmark, it was also with a contract for difference actually yielding a return for the government. Allow me to remind you that, as a society, we have invested a great deal in innovation. This investment can return, for example in the second zone. The profits can be shared with the government. That is why we expect a very important input from the sector, in order to create legal certainty for the support mechanism, for those who are going to develop it. However, we want to keep the costs as low as possible. Those are the things we weigh against each other. Citizen participation is also an important element. This is a new but important aspect for the government: how can citizens participate in wind energy in the North Sea? We have now put in a minimum of about 5% of equity, which amounts to about 1% of the total CapEx. This involvement can take place through the concept of renewable energy communities, as defined in the Renewable Industry Directive. This is a new concept for our offshore wind in the North Sea. Today there are already indirect participations, but now we want to ask ourselves in a very specific way how we can also shape direct participation. This is a complex issue, which for this reason also gets a lot of attention in the public consultation, in order to be able to ask the various stakeholders about it in a good way. A third aspect concerns local benefits. From a study carried out by Climact in 2021, we know that a total installed capacity of 6 GW wind at sea can contribute 1.5 billion euros per year to gross domestic product by 2030 and create about 10,000 new jobs. Today, the wind industry represents a great added value for our country, EUR 1.5 billion per year. It is also an export product, as Belgian companies build windmills at sea worldwide. The company DEME, for example, has secured two concessions in Scotland, for a fixed park and for a floating park, for a capacity similar to our first zone. I also mention the company Jan De Zero, which is developing the Dogger Bank, a very large park called DEME, which is developing in the United States, and Elicio and Aspiravi in Scotland. We may be small in our own area, but our companies also develop wind energy in overseas areas. The next aspect is nature conservation. With regard to nature conservation, we want to explore the criteria for taking this into account. As far as sustainability is concerned, we are looking at the link, for example, with green steel. In the transition plan, there is a project of ArcelorMittal. We also carry recycling projects. As far as construction is concerned, I shall mention, for example, the sustainability of hydrogen in ships. Finally, there is still innovation and integration of systems, with the flexibility of the electrical system. Renewable energy is, of course, by definition flexible. So it is absolutely an assignment to see how we can make firm capacity of that in the 2030 perspective, 2040 and 2050. Under the CRM, a battery project will be developed on Stevin, where the wind will come ashore, to ensure stability, which shows that these aspects are interrelated and complementary. As far as timing is concerned, it is intended to launch the first phase by the end of 2023 and thus install a first 700 MW disc by 2027, by mid 2028 at the latest, based on Ventilus. The status of Ventilus and Boucle du Hainaut has a direct impact on what we can do with the connection of that second zone. I'm coming to our energy island now. As I said, that is a crucial building block, which will enable us to increase capacity. It will be built in the second zone and thus replaces the existing concept with the platforms. It's an innovative way of connecting. It is certainly also the cheapest option for connection, as shown by the data that we have so far, especially when considering the subsidy under the relay plan. The energy island is one of the projects in the Federal Relance Plan submitted under the European Relance Plan. On the island, 2.1 GW is connected in AC and 1.4 GW in DC. That last piece can be used double for a future connector. For example, this dual use can serve Nautilus and will have an additional financial advantage, as the DC cable from the island to the coast has already been realized, as well as the AC-DC conversion stations. As a reminder, that project in the relay plan represents a budget of EUR 100 million, of which 1 million is specifically earmarked for everything related to biodiversity. The project is wholly owned by Elijah, it is drawn and financed by them. The announcement for the works was published in January of this year. The MER study is ongoing. With Elia also the conversations run to make the design even more nature-inclusive and to take into account all possible environmental impacts at the location. It is absolutely innovative, accompanied by challenges and opportunities. Many functions need to be coordinated. We're close to the Natura 2000 zone. So a lot of preparatory work has been done in the background between a lot of different bodies to bring this project to where it stands today. I now come to the repossession of the first zone. Mr Van Quickenborne spoke about it. Several questions have already been asked in this committee. The first concession expires in 2034 and the end of the green certificates of the first parks arrives in 2029. These are the concessions of C-Power and Belwind. The first discussions on the possibilities for the first zone will begin or are under way. The direction we want to give to these discussions revolves around three aspects: primo, the optimal use of this area for energy production with more renewable energy production. We always find this relationship between capacity and production. Our country needs electricity. In addition, in order to achieve our renewable energy targets, production is important. Secondly, the avoidance of a sudden failure in capacity, i.e. ensuring continuity in the production of renewable energy during possible repowering. Tertio, the sustainable reuse of materials or installations. It is in this sense that, as we pioneered the construction of the first zoning, we can also become so with repowering around the idea of circulatoryity. In this area, for example, the Eneco Wind project is important. As we were among the first to build the parks, we can also be among the first to do a repowering exercise and allow our Belgian actors to create a chain of values and expertise to export. This is an exercise that will begin and for which we have a little time. Usually, we're rather short of time. It is an opportunity to carry out a final reflection in order to implement a vision and a policy I now come to the topic of innovation. I would like to dwell on some of the things we have talked about less. Over the past year, an industrial round table has been held, organized with colleagues Dermagne and Dermine, in which we have thought about the issues on which our country intends to engage, including in the context of the relaunch plan. Think of the decommissioning of nuclear power stations, which we want to build expertise on. That's why we organized a round table. Also on something where we are already good today, being offshore wind, we have organised a round table, together with the aviation sector, to bring both sectors into contact. After all, the aviation sector is also having a difficult time in these covid times. In that round table we looked at how we can achieve an exchange between these two sectors. This has led to the identification of important topics such as decommissioning, but also new materials and coatings. For example, when we think in terms of recyclable wicks, the coating is important, as in the aviation industry. Then we will fall back on the chemical sector, which is also strongly represented in our country, in order to create this link between the sectors. Other topics are data collection and airborne systems. On the other hand, we have the Energy Transition Fund (ETF), which is used year after year to finance research in the federal government's policy areas, in order to take a step forward on the energy transition. A total of 63 projects were submitted to the last call for proposals, including again a large number of projects related to offshore wind. In the axis of the offshore wind, we want to focus on sustainability, materials, aviation innovation and circularity. We have also framed this in advance in the tender call of the ETF. It is also in this context that the projects were submitted. They will be evaluated by experts, who will then formulate an opinion so that the Minister can make a choice between the projects. The next slide is about the interconnections. Mr Van Quickenborne has already raised a number of points, but I would like to make a statement on the connection between Belgium and Denmark, which was named Triton Link, to the Greek god of the sea. Denmark has the Little Mermaid and of course that has to do with it. I just want to remind you of history. The interconnection between Denmark and Belgium was already, so to speak, drawn up on a beer ticket, as an interesting track which at first sight seemed worth exploring, both in Denmark and Belgium. Last year I met my Danish colleague, who was not that long a minister. This led initially to the signing of a memorandum of understanding, with the intention of investigating whether what was on that beer card can actually be done in real life. That was the pre-feasibility study. An initial estimate in that study showed that this project offers a clear added value, especially from a European perspective, in terms of CO2 savings, but also in terms of the distribution of large wind surpluses. After all, Denmark produces far more wind energy than it needs and can therefore export it. This led to the signing of a memorandum of understanding in November, in which we considered whether the results of the pre-feasibility study could make the project a truly valid and viable business case for both our countries. This means that the technical teams will continue to implement this case. On our side, Elia's development plan is being looked very closely. At the moment, that connection is not yet in Elia's development plan. There will therefore be a new development plan by 2023 in which this will have to be taken into account. Given the crucial importance of this connection, not only for both our countries but for the whole of Europe, as a step in creating the meshed grid, steps are being taken to see if it can receive a project grant from the Connecting Europe Facility. Our two countries, Denmark and Belgium, and the network operators, Energinet and Elia, are now taking the necessary steps to obtain a CEF grant. In fact, these are all the steps needed to reach a final investment decision. This final investment decision is substantial, as the investment costs are estimated at EUR 2.5 billion for a capacity of 1.4 or 2 GW. There are therefore large profits, especially in terms of CO2 savings. For this amount of EUR 2.5 billion, we hope to receive a European grant of EUR 500 million to EUR 1 billion. The European Union also has an offshore wind strategy and has great expectations for the North Sea. This project has been put in the ultimate position. The timing for the realization is 2031. This external funding will of course be very important for this. This brings me to my final point. The North Sea has a huge capacity, it has the opportunity to become the largest sustainable power plant for the whole of Europe. This means that we must tackle this in a European way. We must create this meshed grid at European level. This is important, including for our country. The Federal Planning Bureau pointed out not so long ago in a study the need for interconnection with Denmark but also with the Netherlands. Our energy island is therefore the first cornerstone in the meshedgrid. We also take up these challenges in the North Seas Energy Cooperation (NSEC), the organisation of the North Sea countries. For example, we can look at a number of issues multilaterally, for example with regard to bidding zones, how we should design them in order to achieve the objective of integrating as much wind as possible into the European energy system. So there's a lot of work to be done. There is hard work, national, within our own waters but also outside our own waters. The objective of the coalition agreement is to do more, both inside and outside our country. We are on the right track, with the capacity expansion in our own zone, but also with the interconnections that are new or already exist and are being developed further. In doing so, we are giving concrete substance to the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic667x.u4	Madam President, Minister, Minister, thank you for your comments. I will take my questions into account in my explanatory statement and add a few additional points. First of all, I am very pleased that this can be discussed in this committee. It is a large project, in the long term and with many challenges. That is why I think it is right for Parliament to think about this, to ask the necessary questions, to think about how things are being put forward and to see whether the right choices are being made. For one piece, it belongs to the role of Parliament in getting to work on it. In the presentation on the dossier I see three main points. A first part covers everything related to the new zone, the second part covers everything related to the existing zone and a third part covers interconnections and related matters. For the new zone, the question arises as to how we deal best with it. There are still many preliminary studies currently in progress, which could still have consequences. There is also a link to the capacity that will be placed in the North Sea. That is why we have the study of 3E on the one hand and the opinion of the CREG on the other. At the time when she came to Parliament with her budget, we asked the CREG about this. The CREG said that it was asking to remain party to confirm the figures of 3E by the offshore wind sector. It is just not very clear whether this confirmation has actually been made. Is there any more information on that? Has the offshore sector confirmed or not the figures of 3E in response to the CREG's critical concerns? Or wasn't asked about it? A second element concerns capacity, which is also linked to some preliminary studies. I am thinking, for example, of the recently completed UXO study on unexploded ammunition. The result is that three things would have to be done: the identification of restrictions, the two-year safety period for certain zones, the identification of areas not eligible for windmills and cables, and the determination of the conditions under which additional investigations and subsequent installation of windmills could be carried out. The question is how this is going to go on. Is there going to be an additional preliminary study based on that? This has a possible effect on capacity. If we come to areas which are not eligible for the installation of windmills, this can of course have an effect. That period of two years after cleaning up can also throw a bit of soot in the food in terms of timing. That's a question, too. How's that gonna go? What effect does that have on timing? Then I come to the specific density. Minister, you said that this was studied in the LCOE study and that there is a difference of up to EUR 37 million in the LCOE area, depending on the choice made in the area of density. On the other hand, there has been no provision of the LCOE in that study, and so it is still on the website of the FOD today. It was merely a comparison of the different scenarios, but not a provision of the LCOE. When will that LCOE be decided on its own? After all, that was a clear disclaimer in that study, because in the future the amount may differ slightly from the EUR 37 million. Participation, Burgerwind at sea, was also discussed with SMEs, possibly in a subsequent phase. How is that intertwined with timing? Madam Secretary, you have spoken about this. However, it does not seem to be included today in the timing as published by the FPS Energy. It would not be appropriate to set clear milestones for this, so that people know what to expect. It is not entirely clear to me how we should assess the timing of the installation and its impact on the National Energy and Climate Plan. In June 2021, a final study was carried out on the impact of the offshore project, albeit with a different capacity. A different timing was also used. It was then still about installing 700 MW in 2025 and installing the remaining windmills in 2027. Today's timing refers to 700 MW in 2028 and then 1,400 MW twice in 2029, including the connection of the mills. I believe that the Minister has mentioned another timing. This should be clarified, because it has a direct impact on the National Energy and Climate Plan, not to mention the links with the preliminary studies. These studies may also change timing. I'm coming to the tender now. There are a lot of ways to do that. I understand that the public consultation currently has two possibilities, namely the strike price and the zero prayer. The question is, of course, where the framework conditions are laid down. They depend on the capacity that will be installed. In what way will that happen? Will the government record the cables, which is of course linked to the 3E study, in which there is a clear talk about the cables? This can, of course, lead to higher costs by using a higher density. How's that gonna go? Is it also taking into account whether or not other forms of renewable energy are offered within the same zone? That too can be an aspect. Will appropriate environmental standards be taken into account? As you know, there are other conditions in the Netherlands, for example in terms of sound pressure and the time when it is possible, as it is called. In what way is that processed? The conditions for recyclability naturally also play a role in such a tender. Finally, to what extent is the next phase under consideration? I know that it is still a long way away, but since we are now debating or starting to debate the repossession of the existing zone, it would be good to think about'repowerability' at this stage, and I apologize for the invented word 'invented' of the new windmills. If we can think about this now, we may have certain long-term benefits. As far as the existing zone is concerned, I was very much in favour of the repo. I have put that forward a number of times. It first appeared in the unofficial policy paper of Minister Van der Straeten. In the meantime, it is mentioned in the latest version, from the end of last year. That is a good thing, but there are still a lot of steps to be taken to ensure that this is done properly. There is also a link with the domain concessions. In what way will it be dealt with? Will there be an early repo? That is a possibility that was put forward at some point. In what way is this done with, for example, the commission for handling and removing the installations, as laid down in the domain concessions? For example, the domain concession of C-Power has been published with a commission of about 20 million euros, excluding interest. At a time when certain issues remain, it is necessary to look at how commissions are handled, how they could be used and so on. These are a number of things that should be further investigated. What is the timeline for cutting through certain knots? A few months ago it was made clear that not only the interconnection with the Netherlands was considered, but also the additional one to the United Kingdom. This was also mentioned in the presentation by Minister Van Quickenborne. In the past, there has also been talk of an alternative interconnection, which would not go to Denmark, but to Norway. What's the status there? Is Norway's interconnection being weighed against Denmark's, or is it already a matter of fact that Denmark's will be there and that there may eventually be a branching to Norway? In the past, I was a little concerned that the conversation at this stage would only take place between Denmark and this country. There are still possible routes that pass through the area under Dutch management. It was then cited that conversations with the Netherlands may be started in a later phase, to see to what extent that will evolve. In the meantime, are we ready for that phase of the conversation? After all, we must avoid opening the conversation lines with the Netherlands only at the very last minute, so that we can see that there are all kinds of problems. In the past, for example, plans have already been made in this country to connect gas plants directly, but after that they have been implemented slightly less smoothly. During our visit to the port of Antwerp, we were told by the people of the port that it is not always obvious to make a decision with the Netherlands. Comparisons were made with the Iron Rhine file and the hydrogen file. I therefore believe that these talks with the Netherlands are best started at the earliest possible stage, unless you say that this Dutch zone is completely spared and that we do not need the Dutch to reach a decision. This raises the question of what framework conditions are to be defined, because in the past it has been mentioned that this new interconnection can also be used on the way for the connection of additional offshore wind farms, possibly from the Netherlands as well. All these things matter. That is why I think it is interesting to know when these buttons will be cut. When will we know whether this dossier is indeed viable and will continue? I understand that there is a link to Elijah's development plan, but the answer to the question when it comes to clarity may change the situation with us. Minister, Minister, with clear answers to my questions, we can continue the debate in depth. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic667x.u5	Thank you, Mr Wollants, for your very thorough explanation of the subject matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic667x.u6	Mr President, I refer to the text of my question and it is my colleague, Mrs Buyst, who will speak for our group. I had indeed come back with a question for which I have already received a lot of answers. I thank the minister for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic667x.u7	Mr President, Minister, Minister, this is an important exchange of views on energy supply. Energy supply is primarily about people. It must be about security and it is very important that citizens are given a clearly defined policy, a policy of long-term thinking and action in the short term. This exchange of views is a good example of this. Innovation in the renewable energy sector is moving fast. Madam Secretary, at the end you spoke about these innovation projects. That shows that this is the technology of the future. It's one we haven't seen before. In addition, renewable energy is the cheapest form of energy, while all other forms are becoming more expensive. More electricity from renewable energy will also lead to a higher CO2 reduction. These are all elements that you have listed in your statement. So it is good governance that this government wants to commit itself to that. I would particularly like to talk today about the offshore projects, the new wind farms. Minister, you also talked about projects with other vectors, which can be a source of income and contribute to energy security, and which in the future can also help to protect us from rising energy prices. You have both given a great deal of answers to questions I had in advance in your speech. That is, of course, a good thing, because that means that your speech was clear and that you also felt very well where the questions were in our committee. I want to start with the energy island. I am personally very fascinated and excited. As I understand it now, this island is sort of a hub, which will act as a tool for the intelligent distribution of the energy produced. Madam Secretary, I thought you said it would really be the cornerstone of this infrastructure. Are there any examples of such islands? If so, are there any issues that we should take up from them, which we should take out of them and which we should take into account in the development of our own energy island? I also had questions about the next steps in the development of the energy island. I thought there was a draft opinion at the Council of State, but there are a lot of other steps to be taken. That may take us a little too far, but I'm especially curious about the timeline. As far as interconnections are concerned, I also heard a question from Mr Wollants. He talked about the connection with the United Kingdom, Denmark and possibly Norway. When I looked at the card on the powerpoint presentation, I saw a lot of connections. Are there any other conversations going on? How does extra wind at sea, and therefore our energy island, fit into the European offshore energy strategy? In what way are we pioneers or forerunners in the European strategy? Minister, in July 2021 I questioned you about the other projects, such as wave energy or floating solar panels. You also discussed the pilot project on floating solar panels off the coast of Ostend, which had yet to be installed. Do I understand correctly that they are now fully working on this and that it is therefore installed? If yes, when do you expect the first evaluation or feedback? Can that feedback come to us too? Another aspect is very important to us, particularly the question put by our colleague, Mr de Laveleye. It's about the circularity of the offshore wind farms. That is an important aspect that we must not lose sight of. There is also biodiversity. I hear partners will be questioned in a participatory project. We welcome that. It is important to make Naturpunt, Greenpeace and the WWF think together with investors and managers. They have written together, as 4Sea, a declaration of intent. It's a good thing there's a follow-up to that. Our vulnerable marine ecosystems need to be protected. We need to strike some sort of balance between our wind farms on the one hand and the preservation of biodiversity on the other. We must try to reduce the negative effects, and we must continue to focus on monitoring environmental impacts and mitigation measures. Mr Van Quickenborne, I am not asking the question exclusively to you, but how do you intend to proceed? Minister Van der Straeten mentioned the RRF grant. It was about EUR 100 million, explicitly talking about EUR 1 million, which would go to biodiversity. However, I am curious to see how these resources would be used to strengthen biodiversity. Finally, our group very much welcomes the participation of citizens. In doing so, the current government wants to give citizens maximum opportunity to participate. When someone can say that he can become a co-owner of a windmill at sea, that is very positive and better than leaving everything to multinationals alone. Energy communities can also play a role in this by finding a match between supply and demand. However, I wondered how it would be possible to ensure that citizens could participate financially in the tender. I'm declaring myself. There are different forms of citizen financing. We can talk about crowdling, co-operatives and civil co-operatives. Is there any idea of how we want to make full use of citizens' participation? It is indeed important to continue looking ahead to new opportunities. I indicated at the beginning of my speech that this is a sector in which innovation is becoming more and more rapid. It is therefore a good thing that many innovative projects are participating and that we continue to support them. We have ambitious climate targets and offshore winds are a crucial element in this. It is also necessary to do what is necessary to achieve nature objectives and to protect and strengthen biodiversity. The beautiful thing, however, is that both hands can go hand in hand. The two presentations showed me the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic667x.u8	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Energy and the Minister responsible for the North Sea for their presence and for the information they have already provided during their speeches, especially as former colleagues in the Climate Commission's office. Welcome to both of you. Several weeks ago, we were able to hear from you about the government's offshore wind projects. It consisted of long and exciting exchanges on which we wish to build today. Madam Minister, last week you told the daily De Standaard that because the amount of state support for the most recent wind farms was calculated on the basis of energy prices, the State could achieve a substantial saving of around EUR 177 million. I wish I had learned more about these numbers. We know that energy prices fell sharply in 2020. Can we obtain information on the amount of support provided by the State during that year? Was there a significant decrease in 2021? Can we obtain an assessment of the impact that price fluctuations could have on the cost of the offshore wind farm capacity increase project to 3.5 GW? As far as costs are concerned, you recently informed us that the study carried out by the 3E study office on the effect of the density of wind turbines in the Princess Elizabeth area on the LCOE (Leveled Cost of Energy) of the project was going to be made public. Is that the case today? You also argue that if all other parameters remain the same and only the density in the parks is raised to the maximum, the LCOE increases by less than 5%. On what reference is this increase based and on what scale does the price of the increase refer? What about the other scenarios and their impact on the LCOE? With regard to energy prices, to what extent could this increase in costs impact the energy bill of our citizens? Can you provide us with more information on the energy price elements in the 3E study? We know today that Belgium's energy supply depends on 90% of its imports, and that the development of renewable energy and, more importantly, renewable electricity would reduce our dependence abroad. However, we also know that the development of renewable electricity will require greater interconnection with foreign sources of production, as evidenced by the project to link the Belgian and Danish wind farms by the Triton Link, or by the strengthening of the cable link with the United Kingdom. Can we be informed of the planned international cooperation projects on offshore energy production, of the possible dependence that this could entail, and of the measures put in place to prevent this risk? Can we have your feedback on the constraints governing the import and export of electricity under such cooperation agreements? Can we also get your feedback on the possibility of European subsidies financing these interconnection projects? Can you provide us with information on concrete contacts with your European colleagues on these projects? With regard to the energy island, which is planned to be installed in the North Sea, we have come to the conclusion that a green design project relating to its location had been implemented by Elia. After evaluation, a decision on the matter was to be taken in December 2021. Can we learn more about this? Has a decision been made? If so, can you inform us? More generally, can you tell us whether the construction and management of this island will be based on private funding? You say that even with increased ambition, these energy island projects and, by extension, offshore wind farms, had to be carried out without the help of the government, and that there would even be a return for society. Can you provide us with more information in this regard? Finally, can you tell us to what extent the connection to the Princess Elizabeth area could have an impact on federal network rates? We mentioned the cost of supporting the most recent wind farms. Can you tell us whether a similar support mechanism is foreseen for the proposed extension? If so, can we get an overview? As far as the call for tenders is concerned, we know that your preference is for calls to be made without subsidies such as those made in Germany or the Netherlands. We also know that the legal framework is being developed within the Adhoc Working Group. Can we get your feedback on the real progress in this area? Is the tender option "without grants" always preferred? Finally, with regard to the replacement of degraded wind turbines, you indicated that this would allow Belgian companies to play a pioneering role. Can we be informed of the contacts between your administration and the sectors concerned? What about the economic prospects that can be associated with the repowering of the offshore wind farm? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic667x.u9	When discussing the policy papers 2022, I have already expressed my appreciation for both policy papers. Here, of course, we are building on the schedules, the timelines and the initiatives for 2022 that have already been included. Of course, it is not easy to find new, original ideas as a fourth speaker, but I will mention a number of points of interest for the Vlaams Belangroep. You have no direct authority for the timetable around the effective commissioning of the Princess Elisabeth Zone. First, 2026-2027 was mentioned, Mr Wollants now mentions further years. The straitjacket in which you have to work, namely the National Energy and Climate Plan, needs to be revised again. It was also agreed at the Glasgow Summit that there would be an annual evaluation of that NEKP. First of all, I am talking about Ventilus in West Flanders. There is a working group on cross-border projects in which the various administrations concerned consult. Mrs Demir's reluctance to implement the regional RUP and its concrete implementation makes the choice of Elia's preferred scenario difficult. You have put all your hopes in the cross-border project working group. Mrs Demir had announced that she would never determine the regional RUP as long as there are mayors against it. Afterwards she took back some gas and stated that she was already better informed about the federal government's plans for the Princess Elisabeth Zone and even the interconnection with Denmark. That's a political game. Maybe today you can update on the state of play. Is there cause for concern, first and foremost for Elijah, but also indirectly for your projects in the Princess Elisabeth zone? I will not repeat what a number of colleagues have said about the Density issue. Over the last few months, a game has been played in this committee and even in the plenary session on the LCOE, the cost of the generated electricity, with the CREG advice and the study bureau. In the meantime, Mrs Van der Straeten made the famous statement that it was manageable. That met with some scepticism from Mr Wollants. Today, he has once again asked a number of clarifying questions about this. I'm right about that. It is not a question of opposition because of the opposition, but of course it is very important for the definitive determination of the LCOE. Of course, the Flemish interest stands for a zero prayer. In the past, very far-reaching commitments have been made, which, of course, have been remediated along the way. I am thinking of initiatives by Mr De Backer and Mrs Marghem concerning the subsidy system. Of course, that has been adapted over the years. I really hope that we in Belgium will now come to a zero prayer. I know that the market survey, the consultation, is going on around that tender. That is why I simply agree with Mr Wollants's questions: what exactly does this question mean? What is in front of the market players for questioning? For the rest, we follow what is stated in the PowerPoint presentation and in the Policy Paper on the preparatory activities for the tender. The number of lottery tickets and the size of the lottery tickets will be announced this year in 2022. The call for tenders will, of course, take place in the following year. Minister, in October you gave an update on the 25 preliminary studies. You gave it to me at the time, and I thank you for that. Perhaps you could brief me on the current state of affairs in those 25 studies. Have all these studies already been awarded and started? I don't think so. What I am asking now is quite a chunk, but it may be useful if our Energy Committee knows in detail what the disturbing delays are. Mr Wollants has also pointed out the importance of some of these studies, given the possible impact on the capacity increase you are aiming for, the capacity targets you have put forward. The market consultation, the tender and everything that the task force provides offshore, which I do not mean negatively, will of course be followed up in detail in this committee, including by regularly asking questions about it. I now come to Mr Buyst's dream project. It's the energy island MOG-II. In December, Elia announced the conceptual details to the Council of Ministers. Now we are waiting for the full EIA analysis to map the environmental impact of the energy island and, where necessary, provide mitigation measures. In the end, however, the market also plays a role here, but in this case the market players are kept informed by Elia about the technical developments surrounding MOG-II. Mr Minister, in a way you have already answered my question on this by saying that a Natura 2000 permit will have to be applied for in any case as to the intended location of that energy island. The construction costs are estimated at between 450 and 650 million euros, depending, of course, on the final location chosen. We have known for some time that funds will be allocated from the European Recovery Fund, I believe EUR 100 million. Now I come to the question of the Triton Link with Denmark, which was also the subject of oral questions. Two times a memorandum of understanding was signed, the last one on 23 November, to achieve that connection by 2031, of course through the Danish energy island. I believe that the important study on technical and economic feasibility is already ready and that Elijah has already reported on this. It's about an underground DC cable with a power of 2 GWh. On the other hand, Mrs van der Straeten, in the autumn, you said that signing the last memorandum is the formal start for many further studies, which will ultimately have to show what the costs are, but also the benefits. It's not a one-sided story, I know that. However, I believe that we still have a great deal to clarify about the positive effect you have already expressed on the price of electricity in this country. It is, of course, very important what is going to happen in the coming years with regard to the price and supply of renewable energy to this country. It is an open door, but Mr Van Quickenborne has also said that further opportunities at sea, which the sector seems to be dreaming of, are not so simple and that at some point we will be at the maximum, given the geographical reality. Mrs Van der Straeten knows that, too. Ultimately, renewable production will cover between 30% and 35% of the country's needs, but that will not be enough. That means massive imports. You know that my party also calls this a form of energy dependence, even if it is a dependency on renewable energy. You know our vision of future production through nuclear energy in this country, as well as our vision of the energy mix in its entirety. Mr Van Quickenborne, you have also talked a lot about the spatial plan, in which 14% of the territory is reserved for production. It remains a very delicate matter. I'm absolutely willing to look at it with an open mind. I defend that also in my party and fortunately the spirits ripen there too, although there are individuals who sometimes want to suggest it differently, but that is entirely up to them. I will continue to support that offshore, provided that an absolute balance can be found with the other users of the North Sea. I must then inevitably go into a little detail, Minister. You have also learned of the displeasure of the city of Nieuwpoort. The city went to court yesterday with regard to the sea farm and says that the investor has started the preparatory work while there is still a procedure before the Council of State. Of course, you should not make any statements about this legal procedure. Everyone's free to go to court. However, this shows once again that there is a concern on the coast, even in the fisheries sector, even though our small fleet does not mainly fish there. In any case, there is a concern, including from pleasure boating, sport fishing and so on. We need to strike a balance, of course for the ecosystems involved, but we will undoubtedly hear more details about this in the coming years. My final point is about cooperatives. Madam Secretary, in June there was a beautiful picture of you and your little daughter, together with Minister Van Quickenborne, at that umbrella association of cooperatives on the coast. You said that it was already settled and that you would apply it. I suppose it is about the transposition of the EMD Directive, so the common rules for the electricity market. There is also the new concept of the renewable energy community, in which the concessionaire will be able to provide a domain concession in civic participation or set up a cooperation. I thought this draft law passed on June 18th at the Federal Council of Ministers. In September there was an opinion from the GBA. After that, we have not heard from them. I learned in the corridors that the Council of State is a bit of a pain in the ass. In any case, it has not yet been approved in this committee. Can you give me an update on this transposition?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic667x.u10	Mr. Chair, Minister, Minister, first of all, thank you for your presentations, which were well illustrated with slides. As you recalled, Belgium is in the world's top 6 in offshore wind development. As the Belgian Offshore Platform points out, in 2021 the 399 wind turbines of the 9 parks located in the Belgian part of the North Sea produced about the equivalent of the electricity needs of nearly 2 million households, or almost 8% of the country's total electricity demand. In the coming years, total offshore wind power capacity will be tripled to between 5.4 and 5.8 GW. Under the previous legislature, a significant saving was achieved on the subsidy scheme for the construction of offshore wind farms. After negotiation, the government had obtained a reduction in the cost of state support from offshore parks. The first park was built in 2009, for a period of 25 years. It is therefore necessary to reflect on the future of this area. You are currently developing a vision on the reuse of the first offshore zone in the Belgian part of the North Sea. You talked about a participative journey. But concretely, can you give us more details? How will the first wind turbines be dismantled? What will be the timetable? You are also referring to a change in legislation. But what is the planned timing? Is this legislative change planned for this year 2022? On 23 December last the Council of Ministers gave its green light for the energy island. The artificial energy island is a first step in the development of an integrated offshore network at European level. This underscores our country's status as a pioneer in offshore electricity. The Belgian island will extend over five hectares. If three hectares are reserved for interconnections, the other two will be able to accommodate battery storage, for example, as well as green hydrogen production. Thank you for the information you provided on the next steps. As you say, this is a time line that may not be easy to follow. But recognize that it has the merit of existence. A public consultation is under way and, as I understand it, will close on February 18. It will be used to provide an input that will be used to launch a call for tenders. Can you give more details about the different stakeholders? In other words, who was consulted and how? I hear your willingness to organize a direct citizen participation in offshore wind. By what mechanism will this be possible? How will citizens be informed of this possibility? Can you give us more details about this direct citizen participation? In October, you pointed out that according to the first estimates, the cost of building the island would be around 450 to 600 million euros depending on the location, with 100 million coming from the European Recovery Plan, you recalled. As far as the financing of the project is concerned, as I understand it, it is provided by Elia. Can you confirm that Elia is financing the entire project? Finally, your desire for the maximum development of our offshore zone plans to increase the capacity of wind turbines in a given territory. Will this increase in capacity affect energy prices? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic667x.u11	Minister, I am glad that Belgium is known as a pioneer of offshore wind farms. This government, like the previous one, has always had the objective of maintaining that status, in this case by doubling capacity, through a tender system, so that we can keep costs as low as possible. The decision to increase capacity therefore sounds like music in the ears for someone who knows the maritime event in the North Sea well. We must indeed try to use our small but very precious North Sea as best we can in the energy transition, as the Minister says, with respect for the other functions. This is primarily about offshore wind farms, but I am also looking forward to the pilot project announced with floating solar panels. This additional capacity of up to 3.5 GW in the second zone naturally depends on a number of crucial preconditions. First of all, this is an acceptable cost. The CREG calculated that the cost would be slightly higher than in the original plan. We have to keep a close eye on this, because everything about Elijah will of course end up on the people's bill via the transmission rates, regardless of whether this can be totally non-subsidised or not. To what extent can the wake effects turn out to be more negative than expected? Do we have a better view of that? Of course, we are thinking primarily of the electricity generated, but also of the impact on costs and profitability. I agree with the questions put by colleagues Wollants and Ravyts. As far as the energy island is concerned, I heard that there are also alternatives possible via the so-called high-voltage direct current (HVDC) platform that will be used in the Netherlands. What are the advantages of one system (the island) against another (the HVDC)? When could that energy island be ready? I do ask myself a few questions about that submarine cable to Denmark. I read that this would be about billions of euros, but the cost is still unknown as well as the distribution of costs between countries. Other issues remain unclear, including whether or not this cable will first be connected to other countries, such as the Netherlands or the United Kingdom. Or are there possibilities of making this a kind of European cable? In any case, our energy policy will be more and more European-oriented and probably also managed. So what matters still need to be cleared up, and by when? Do we have any idea of the size of the possible cost? We may have to be a little reluctant with big announcements about submarine cables of hundreds of kilometres if there are still so many unknown factors. Because for the same money, that cable doesn't come out, or maybe the cost is huge, and then we have to answer for it. Enthusiasm is good, but we must be careful of excessive enthusiasm. When we look at the neighbouring countries, we see that France still has plans for the wind farm in Dunkirk. Minister Van Quickenborne has taken the first legal steps. We support him in this, just like the Flemish government, I understand. Where are we in there? Apart from the dispute with France, we may also have to consider whether we can't connect that wind farm to our network. Are there opportunities for cooperation? Finally, Minister Van der Straeten, you were chairman of the North Seas Energy Cooperation in 2021, which aims at cooperation between different countries on the North Sea. What plans have you put on the table or not for cooperation in the field of offshore wind, including cables and connections? Thank you both once again for your availability. You have taken the initiative yourself, and I can only appreciate that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic667x.u12	Thank you for all your questions. It is always a pleasure to be able to discuss with you in this committee. That's right, Mrs. Hanus, I was a member of the bureau at some point. So it's a pleasure to meet you all here. I would like to begin by asking Mr Wollants about the UXO study on the unexploded ammunition in the planning area of the second zone, the Princess Elisabeth zone. The study to which you refer has been made on the basis of the information available in the literature, but there is no indication yet of the places where the jumpers might be located. This is why an additional study, a magnetometric study, is now being carried out, which is part of the geophysical and geotechnical field study. This will indicate the locations where UXOs or parts of them may be located. This study will be launched this year. That investigation will respond to the measures you referred to, Mr Wollants. The results of that investigation will also be made public and discussed with the Defense Department. After all, it is up to the Defence Department to determine whether it actually concerns UXOs or parts of them or parts of them that can remain. Defense will also have to clean up the UXOs or their parts free of charge before we detonate them on land or sea. Whether this will be done in advance or after the tender has been awarded still has to be considered, depending on the results of the research. You have also asked a question about the impact on timing and density. There is no impact on the timing of the development of the zone or on density, as the UXOs that may be in the way will be removed. In view of the above, the results of this study are not taken into account for the purpose of achieving capacity. Mr Wollants, you have asked many questions to Mrs Van der Straeten, but I also have an answer to your question about the strike price and zero prayers. The results of the stakeholder conference will be discussed in the Task Force and then to the Council of Ministers. You specifically asked about the conditions for mooring poles. These will be laid down in the environmental permit procedure. The tender laureate will then receive all the permits: the environmental permit, the Natura 2000 permit and the building permit. You also asked whether an early repo would be possible. That would actually mean that we would not respect the contracts with existing concessionaires. That is, of course, not the issue at the moment. For the re-use of the first zone, we will therefore use a participatory pathway, involving all stakeholders. Let us start with that trajectory first and not anticipate any possible recommendations that will result from it. Mr Van der Straeten addressed the issue of interconnection. I know that a meeting was scheduled for February between our Prime Minister and the Norwegian Prime Minister. Perhaps the subject could be raised there. Mr Buyst, you asked questions about the energy island. That is also for Mr Van der Straeten, but I do know that there is a ministerial decision on this matter which has been forwarded to the Council of State for advice. As regards solar panels, the MPVAqua pilot project of three Belgian companies, namely Jan De Nul, DEME and Tractebel, will be installed off the coast of Ostend by this summer at the latest. Of course, we're in close contact with the developer. We will also share the evaluation with this committee. This evaluation is important and will determine the EUR 2 million investment that we want to make for the development of a major demonstration project. Mr Buyst has also raised questions about biodiversity and the possible negative effects of windmills. To investigate the effects of the windmills in the Princess Elisabeth zone we are already doing the necessary studies. We will, of course, also collect information during the environmental permit procedure. Any impact on the environment will be subject to so-called mitigation measures. For example, it will be recorded when pile piles can occur and whether the so-called double bubble curtains, the bubble curtains, should be used. Of course, we are also going to work on the restoration of nature in the construction of the soil erosion protection layers. We will lay down the conditions for the use of the gravel. In any case, we have a lot of knowledge at home, because the KBIN has been monitoring the first offshore zone for ten years as part of the windmill project. There we have a wealth of information that is also shared worldwide. It concerns, among other things, the problem of underwater noise. In that country, our country is a pioneer. Soon we will also be able to use the new research vessel, the Belgica, to monitor at that place. This information will therefore continue to be supplemented. Mrs Hanus and Mr Ravyts, thank you too for your questions. In particular, you asked me about the call for tenders and the timetable. We will determine the number, size and location of the plots. In the first quarter of this year, we will also decide on the financing mechanism and appoint a coordinator to draft the environmental impact report. In 2023, we will launch the first contract to be awarded the following year. The second will be launched in 2025. Mr Ravyts, you have asked questions about West Flanders and the working group on cross-border projects. The realization of Ventilus is not only necessary for the connection of offshore, but also to strengthen the network, especially in our precious province. As you know, the Flemish government agreement specifically states that priority must be given to this project and that the process must be properly monitored in accordance with the current EIA procedure. The well-known intentant Guy Vloebergh has been appointed to facilitate the realization. Within his mandate he strives for what is called a preferred variant, in which as many partners as possible can agree. His mandate was extended by three months at the end of last year. That is a decision that the Flemish Government deserves and the federal government has no say in it. I do not have the ambition to interfere with the ambition of the Länder, but I also expect the opposite. The decision to increase capacity has no impact on Ventilus. Elijah has said so in so many words. Together with my colleague Van der Straeten I count on good cooperation, in the interests of Flemish and Belgian companies and families. Everyone knows that Ventilus must be built, in whatever form, not only to bring energy from the sea to land, but also to enable the energy switch. If we're all gonna drive electric, we're not gonna be able to do it without Ventilus. As far as the choice of zero prayer and the other options are concerned, you know that we paid relatively much subsidies for the first zone compared to what was then common, precisely because of the high density in that zone. I think we should be very attentive to that in the second area. We have a small North Sea, so we need to make the most of our space. As I said earlier, the price mechanism will be laid down in the Task Force. Everyone knows that offshore wind energy is today a mature economic sector that needs to be taken into account. We will, of course, continue to follow developments abroad closely, including those in neighbouring countries. You asked questions about the studies. I'll get you an update, but can you tell me that there are 10 preliminary studies and 25 nature studies? We have already carried out two desktop studies: the UXO study, to which I referred in my answer to Mr Wollants' question, and the archaeological study. The calls for tenders for the two field studies are currently under way. The 25 nature studies are also on schedule and are expected by the end of this year. A final synthesis report will then be prepared at the beginning of 2023. All nature studies are conducted under the guidance of the KBIN. Additional nature studies will have to be carried out for the island with a view to receiving the Natura 2000 certification. According to my information, Elijah and the KBIN have made the necessary arrangements. These studies will not affect the timing of the construction of the island. 14 % is indeed the maximum we can achieve. We know that we will never be able to place enough windmills to meet all our energy needs. So we will have to use that 14% in a smart way. You referred to the sea farm. Like you, I've been told in the press that the municipality of Nieuwpoort has gone to court. The procedure is currently under way by the Council of State, but is not suspensive. I have also heard that the hearing officer's opinion is positive for the government. Codevco V BV, the company that will run the sea farm, has followed the necessary procedures. You know that there has been a great deal of consultation and that all the procedures for granting licences and other elements have been followed. We have also consulted all the parties involved, with the company, but also with people from the pleasure boating sector. I myself was on the spot in Nieuwpoort before that. Unfortunately, from a certain angle there was no sense to talk any further and it was decided to go to court. Mr Bombled, you asked questions about the dismantling of the first wind turbines. In fact, we are developing a vision on the reuse of the first offshore zone in the Belgian part of the North Sea. The first wind turbines were built between 2009 and 2014. These are small wind turbines, even if they are large enough – between 3 and 5 megawatts. They have a lifespan of approximately 25 years. The current framework provides that the site must be restored in its original state, without any assessment of its impact on wildlife. Therefore, by analogy with the long-term vision for the North Sea by 2050, we will work on a participatory path. We will examine how these areas can be developed or redeveloped in the future. The journey will start in 2022 and is expected to be finalized in the course of 2023. The other questions you have asked are for my colleague Mrs Tinne Van der Straeten. Mr Leysen, I have just answered your question about timing. You also asked a question about Dunkirk. You know that there are fundamental problems there. There are the historic sailing routes between Ostend and the United Kingdom that are being hampered. Safe air traffic is also important. There are also problems with search and rescue operations. We've already made quite a journey. Since 2016 we ask to be involved in the location and development of the park. But on May 10, 2021, the developers decided to continue building the park without responding to our concerns. We have appealed to the Administrative Court of Lille. Not only the federal government has done so, but also the coastal municipalities, the port of Ostend and the Flemish Region. The court decided to refer the case to the French Council of State, since the French authorities are also involved in the proceedings. That procedure is ongoing. We also informed the Commission of our intention to fail France. The Commission has launched a conciliation procedure involving both countries. We ask for a move from the park to the north to remove the objections. Those conversations are going on. On 24 January 2022 there was still contact with France. We are considering whether a solution can still be found to avoid the legal procedure. But if this track does not result quickly, then the Commission's notice of formal notice will indeed take place. You also asked a question about the possible connection of the Dunkirk park to our net, if that were to come and in what form. Of course, that is also a possibility that we need to examine. So far, the questions that have been asked to me, but many have also been asked to Mr Van der Straeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic667x.u13	There are a lot of questions about the LCOE study of 3E. The study bureau 3E, in collaboration with the Von Karman Institute, calculated the effect of density on the LCOE in the Princess Elisabethzone. This was done in consultation with the market actors. We have talked about this before in committee. There I also explained that, if all parameters remain the same and only density is increased to the maximum, the LCOE will increase by less than 5% according to the study. The production factors, taking into account, inter alia, the wake losses, vary between EUR 46,6 per MWh and EUR 52,3 per MWh, depending on the turbine type and the total installed capacity. The 3E study was not intended to determine the absolute costs, but rather to compare the different scenarios and then determine which are cheaper or more expensive compared to a reference scenario and which generate more or less energy. About 69 scenarios have been compared. The same method of calculation has been used for all these scenarios. This also allows them to be compared. Ms. Hanus, the 3E study has been published, so it is made public. The question on the opinion of the CREG and the confirmation of the figures on the sector was also discussed earlier. The sector responded to the figures and also supported the increase. I can also provide these documents if I wish to look further. The LCOE has also been associated with the strike price. The LCOE study has been asked to have policy input to make the decision to increase capacity. In other words, it had to be considered whether this was technically and economically feasible. Hence the different scenarios and the relativity of the price. The study shows that it is both technically and economically feasible. Several Members spoke about costs, but this is indeed a mature technology, as Mr Van Quickenborne said. This cost reduction is also seen in the LCOE. If we then link up with the tender and the support mechanism, which still has to be worked out, and when it comes to the assessment of the strike price, then another study must be carried out. The LCOE study of 3E, which was requested and ordered to take a policy decision on increasing capacity, will therefore not be used to determine the strike price. This is not the task of the study and the results cannot be used. If a strike price is to be considered in the course of the course, it will have to be re-examined. That's important. The support mechanism is not at issue now, not even for me. We are organising this public consultation just before that, and we expect the market actors to return to it. You can find the relevant information on the website of the FPS Economy. A stakeholderevent is also organized for this purpose. That's open to everyone. It's an open consultation. Any stakeholder, from the Netherlands and abroad, can respond to this. There is no restriction on the number of actors that can participate. The slopes presented in the stakeholder consultation are zero pray and two-sided CfD. Both have advantages and disadvantages. As always, the advantages and disadvantages must be balanced and assessed to see how we move forward. At least it's a mature technology. We see in the surrounding countries that it can be done without subsidies, and everything suggests that this will also be the case in Belgium. Then the question is what returns our country can get from that. Our citizens and businesses have invested a lot in that first zone, and that has taught us a lot. What return on investment can there be for the second zone? I understand all the questions about this, but I would like to show some restraint in this matter, in order to give this stakeholder consultation every opportunity. We are waiting for that input and will then start working on it in the task force, among other things. Perhaps we will continue to look at this in committee too. The same is true of participation. We want to investigate and question very explicitly, in order to learn from the stakeholder consultation how we can shape a direct citizen participation, what its impact on the projects is, how the sector reacts to them. Constructions of indirect participation already exist. The question is what we need to take into account when it comes to direct civic participation. It concerns capital-intensive high-risk projects. How do we bring these two into line with that? Mr Wollants, you asked about its impact on the timeline and milestones. I will certainly take your comment with me on the next step. The overall timing and link to the NEKP were requested. The NEKP will receive an update. On the website of the FPS Economy an accurate assessment of the timing for the second zone is kept. It is kept continuously, with delays and so on, if there are any. So it's leading. In relation to the other forms of renewable energy, the word hydrogen has not fallen. I don't know if I meant to. In the document, however, we explicitly state that we exclude the combination with hydrogen in the second zone. That is a different policy from that of the Netherlands, Denmark or Scotland. That's where the combination is provided. These are larger parks, with larger quantities of renewable energy. This is less important for us in the North Sea. Much remains to be done for the existing zone. It is important, however, to get the reflection and the policy vision on this issue around, so that a good decision can be made. There were also many questions about the interconnection. Both in the Netherlands and Germany there is a new government and I have met both ministers, Rob Jetten and Robert Habeck. Both countries have also signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Denmark. Denmark therefore looks at all the countries that could contribute to the project. I saw my Dutch colleague Jetten on the margins of the Energy Council and Robert Habeck on Monday. It has been agreed that we will put our heads together on the Danish cable. It is the ambition of my Danish colleague and myself to be a cornerstone in a meshed grid. So our ambition goes beyond a point-to-point link and a purely bilateral project between our two countries. The benefits are not only in Belgium or Denmark. There are currently no interconnection talks with Norway. Norway's political position is different, because the Norwegian Government is reluctant to achieve interconnections. They're going to develop offshore wind energy in two zones. One of them would be export-oriented and could connect with other European projects but not necessarily with the Norwegian mainland. So there are no concrete initiatives there, but we are following them closely. Belgian companies, such as the Colruyt group, are also setting up initiatives in Norway. The country will certainly remain on our radar, because a branching of the Danish cable is a possible piste. Mrs Buyst, there are no such islands yet. The first island comes to us but also the hybrid infrastructure is new. Denmark is developing a similar island but it is much larger. The TSOs of our countries are in contact with each other because of the Triton Link to exchange experiences. The European strategy aims to develop a high level of capacity in the North Sea. Our own initiatives are always looking for added value. Indeed, the broader picture is lacking if we are to focus only on bilateral projects. The surpluses of energy produced in the Middle Sea must be distributed. That win-win situation is what we need to look for. With regard to Mrs Hanus's questions, as regards the increase in costs, I explained that this was a relative comparison. If we look at the absolute figures, everything makes us believe today that these projects can be carried out with almost no subsidies. Following the public consultation, we have the two options of zero bid and two sided contract for difference. The latter offers the possibility, if the price of electricity exceeds a certain threshold, to return the surplus, which makes it possible to create a profit. I still hear that the costs will fall for the next few years. We made an investment for the first zone. We're not gonna lock up. Costs are falling, which means that there is an upside for society. That's what we're looking for. In the first area, there are two support systems. The system has changed from the previous legislature, with the direct result, given the current high prices, that we must spend 177 million less on support. This shows that there are positive returns. Anything that comes under the responsibility of renewables can lower the bill, which is still the goal we want to achieve. As far as dependence is concerned, Belgium will always be an energy importer. This is already the case today and will still be the case tomorrow. This dependence can be reduced: for example, our hydrogen strategy shows that this dependence will decrease slightly. If interconnections are not available, this may lead to risks. But on the other hand, it also creates opportunities. For example, the Nemo link is one of the most efficient interconnectors today. This helps us with security of supply. On the other hand, if we look at the French situation today, with the unavailability of its nuclear fleet, France today imports a lot of electricity and we see that the interconnections are working really well. Market linkage is doing its job. We have seen other events about which I have been questioned in the past and there are risks as well as opportunities. To answer Ms. Hanus' question about network rates for the Princess Elisabeth area, the plans already existed with the platforms. This island is more efficient and will therefore have a rather positive impact on tariffs, but the tariff proposals still need to be submitted by Elia and verified by CREG. It is planned for 2023, in order to be able to apply the new rates from 2024. It is therefore still a little early to be concrete on this subject. With regard to degraded wind turbines and contacts between my administration and the sector, I referred to the industrial round tables that were organized under the auspices of Secretary of State Thomas Dermine and myself. Among other things, they were intended to create these contacts and to learn what exists and what can be done. One of the themes of these meetings was the degraded wind turbines and the circulation with recyclable blades in the near future. As far as entry into service is concerned, Mr Ravyts, I would like to refer to the timeline that my administration keeps on the website. It now starts from late 2027 until mid 2028. That is the impact of Ventilus and Boucle du Hainaut. At the moment, it is indeed appropriate not to make any major statements about this, because the Regions are about to take decisions in it, and we each have our respective powers. Mr Ravyts, we also discussed the working group on cross-border projects last time. When it comes to cross-border projects under ENOVER, I have recommended that my colleagues make better use of them. We need to understand each other better and be better aware of things, so that we can land better with some things; we have seen more dynamics in the process ever since. As far as the EMD Directive is concerned, we have received all the opinions from the Data Protection Authority and the Council of State, and we can align and update the text accordingly. We expect them to be able to submit them to Parliament for discussion this quarter. As regards the consultation of the stakeholders referred to by Mr Bombled, I answered the question. With regard to the citizens and all the details, I will refer to the ongoing public consultation. It is a project that poses certain challenges and needs to be studied in detail. As regards the financing of the island, the recovery plan also provides for a subsidy of EUR 100 million. As far as Mr Leysen's questions on cross-compliance are concerned, the cost is obvious, but let us also look at returns and benefits in relation to costs. The increased capacity in the zone will produce electricity equivalent to the use of all Belgian families. That's not nothing. We have to weigh those two against each other over and over again. I am still in favour of investing in domestic rather than purchasing renewable statistics abroad. We have to take that into account in the reflection. With regard to the 2 GW platforms in the Netherlands, the situation in the Netherlands is of course different from that in Belgium. This is where we need to connect to AC. The solution put forward here is the most economic solution for Belgium; as such, Elia has taken this into account in previous studies. I have already listed elements such as the cost and timing of the Danish cables. It is said that we would be too enthusiastic. I disagree. I spoke to Thierry Geerts from Google not so long ago. He said that a country or a company should not underestimate the importance of communication. From both Denmark and Belgium, this also applies to the Netherlands and Germany, which have also signed an agreement with Denmark. This is always the case before a final investment decision is taken. Of course, there's always a chance that it won't work, but let's turn it around. Let's say we're gonna be okay. It can't work, but it can. I prefer to reason from the solution and my starting point is that it can succeed. If it doesn't work, then we can say that we've done everything we can. It is important to continue to outline the longer-term perspective. If we hadn't chosen wind energy at sea twenty years ago, we wouldn't be the sixth country on the relevant list today. More than 40 years ago, we in our country decided to step into nuclear power without knowing what to do with the waste. We still don't know that very well today, but we did. This has brought many economic benefits to our country. That was the case with nuclear energy and also with offshore wind energy. Soon it will be with hydrogen. It always starts with people making decisions. The realization of the Danish cable or the meshed grid on the North Sea should also be seen in that picture. This does not mean that we will take the final investment decision or implement the project without a care. Not at all. We will do so on the basis of preliminary research and further calculations. The two administrations, the two TSO's and the two ministers are working on this very intensively. So we go step by step to realize that project. What plans were put on the table for the NSEC? During the Belgian Presidency, we have been working on a new political statement. This was necessary in view of the new situation in Europe, where the UK is no longer a European Member State, and in view of the strengthened objectives for wind at sea at European level. We've also done active work on the meshed grid. Indeed, provisions have been included in the proposal of the Third Renewable Energy Directive concerning the contribution of hybrid infrastructures to the implementation of the meshed grid. The presidency is now being taken over by my Irish colleague, Mr Eamon Ryan. He will continue to work on the political declaration and then take the next concrete steps. He has also indicated that he wants to work on combinations with hydrogen. That is where we are on the right track.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic667x.u14	Minister Van Quickenborne apologizes. He will answer additional questions in writing. Any questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic667x.u15	Madam Secretary, I think a number of matters need to be clarified further. I understand that it is not possible to know 100% of what is going to come out of these studies today, but I think that we need to examine this very carefully. I welcome your offer to provide the documentation of the offshore sector on the basis of the 3E study and the opinion of the CREG to Parliament so that we can look at the direction in which this is going. The LCOE study may not have received the best name, because in practice it is mainly about the economic assessment of the viability of the estimated capacity. However, further steps need to be taken so that we can assess what support could be realistic. That's part of the point. We can bet on capacity, that's absolutely good. Afterwards, we must also be aware of what the costs are allocated and how much the costs and benefits of the whole story will be. Parliament absolutely wants to be more involved in this, in order to know what direction it is going to take. Indeed, a lot of studies have to be carried out and they all have an effect on each other. We have to go today for the most optimal implementation of that zone. There are, of course, several aspects to this. This is both about what can be produced in that zone and at what price and what should be allocated from the budget in order to ensure that that can be done. That is a very difficult balance. We've all dreamed of a story where we shouldn't make any sense of it and we could even make money out of it. We must therefore ensure that the framework conditions are in place so that the best possible situation can be achieved. That was the whole ratio behind the competitive tendering procedure or at least the legislative initiative that took place in 2018-2019. These parameters must now be filled in and we must not just stare blindly at the capacity to be achieved; it must also be about the stability of energy supply, about production, about what needs to be done from the budget, about the benefits. That's very important. Parliament must continue to weigh that up. In any case, we must not see this as a one-off activity, but we must make it come back regularly. It may be possible to find a method with a certain frequency, so that Parliament remains sufficiently involved in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic667x.u16	Mr President, I would like to thank the two Ministers of Energy and the North Sea for their availability and for their explanations to our committee. I think this is a development that should be welcomed. The government's effort is quite exceptional. There is still a question of the triple production of electricity in the North Sea. We're going from 2.1 to 3.5 GW in the Princess Elizabeth area. These are also 2.3 GW interconnections with Denmark thanks to the world's first energy island. We can also make the link with what we were talking about this morning in the Committee on Energy. The first thing, of course, is the price of energy. In my view, today's best way to protect both the household portfolio and the competitiveness of our businesses is to invest in renewable energy sources, which are constantly falling prices. I am very proud that Belgium can be and remain a world leader in offshore wind power generation. We also see that future investments, precisely in offshore wind, will be made mainly without subsidies. It is a development that must also be welcomed in relation to price, cost, and cost to the public. And then, it means less dependence on gas and energy imports from abroad. We see how important this is in the rather geopolitical debate, which may be to us tomorrow in the Defence Committee and in the Committee on External Relations, particularly in relation to Russia. I can only commend the efforts that are being made here, jointly by the Minister of Energy and his colleague, Minister Van Quickenborne.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic667x.u17	Mr President, I would like to join my colleague Cogolati in thanking the two ministers who have devoted time to this committee to discuss and present the progress made on this important subject of offshore wind development. I would also like to thank Minister Van der Straeten for the outline of the answers that have already been given to the issue of sustainable development as such, wind energy, materials and the prospect of recycling these materials. I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Energy to the issue, which has been discussed and which I have read about today, to Mr Buyst. There is indeed this notion of citizen participation in offshore wind, of which I do not yet know the subtleties and for which I would like – if not today, in other circumstances – to have a more in-depth insight. What would be the conditions for such participations? What categories of people could they have access to? I believe that this is an important debate that must be held in Parliament's bodies. I would like to thank our ministers for their contribution today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic667x.u18	Both Mr Van Quickenborne and Mrs Van der Straeten have stressed this on several occasions: the great developments over the last twenty years on offshore, their added value for the Belgian economy, the jobs and so on, the added value. In fact, this is proof that nuclear production in this country has never stood in the way of the commercial development of offshore. The fact that the Minister even instructed the CREG to examine the potential excess profits of all energy producers. We have already seen a first result of this, it was shared on her Facebook account. This despite all the discussion about the difficult flexibility of most nuclear power plants. I would like to respond to Mr Cogolati's remark that we should invest more massively in renewable energy, because this would also benefit our energy independence. The Triton Link also means for a piece of dependence. When communicating about the surpluses of giant producers such as Denmark, we must do so correctly. Here too, there may be dependence on the supply of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic667x.u19	Minister, Minister, I welcome the investment we have made in the renewable energy sector. Madam Secretary, you said that Elijah has made an analysis and that the island has emerged as the best techno-economic solution. What does the CREG think, however? Elia is the system operator of the power grid. We have a monitoring body in Belgium, which can provide advice in complete independence and without any other interest. Elijah certainly has the competence, but independence is not guaranteed. In connection with the cables one has to be careful to sell plans or a MoU as a fixed realization. We must be careful, despite the enthusiasm we share with regard to renewable energy. That enthusiasm is perhaps coupled with some reluctance or disgust towards other low-carbon energy sources. This enthusiasm must not overshadow the reality that we will need great diversification for our energy mix in the future. The ambition is to bring electricity to the maximum of renewable energy. However, global consumption, with chemistry, agriculture and other things, cannot be filled with renewable energy alone. We must always communicate this reality to the people, otherwise we will fool people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic667x.u20	I do not know whether anyone wants to respond, but I believe that we will discuss these issues repeatedly. I found the debate very interesting. I would also like to thank you for your time at the meeting. If there are no further comments, I suggest that we conclude the sitting. I also wish you every success in the matters you are getting started on. I certainly look forward to a visit on the spot. We will look at it with the secretariat to organise it in April or May 2022.
