ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u1	Madam President, my question concerns the assessment of the current mechanism for reducing contributions in the event of a collective reduction in working time. Mr Minister, at the 8 March committee, you informed us that an assessment of the current contribution reduction mechanism would be made to consider its wider application, which was part of the government agreement. What is the timing of this assessment? What other means do you have to encourage the collective reduction of working time, without affecting the social security funds? Countries such as Spain are launching large-scale pilot projects. Why not opt for similar processes? Could the federal public service not set an example in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u2	Madam President, Madam Member, as you know, employers who apply a reduction in working time below 38 hours per week may benefit from a reduction in employers' contributions for the workers concerned. The measure is important in terms of reconciliation between work and private life. On the basis of the fact that the system is poorly implemented, the government agreement provides for its evaluation. Prior to this assessment, I asked ONSS to provide me with some data on this target group reduction in order to conduct the evaluation of the scheme. The assessment and adaptation of the current system will be carried out in consultation with the social partners. The aim is to increase the use of this system, which encourages the collective reduction of working hours at company level. With respect to the collective reduction in working hours in the federal public service, I refer you to my colleague, the Minister of Public Service and Autonomous Public Enterprises.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u3	Minister, that you have not completely abandoned this assessment is a good thing, because sometimes you can expect the worst. Unfortunately, we have to see that this government is going much faster to make working time more flexible and longer than to do that. I will not recall the positive effects of reducing working time in terms of job creation, reconciliation of work-life, well-being and reduction of work-related illnesses. We take this opportunity to reiterate that we do not agree that instead of moving you towards more collective reductions in working time with wage maintenance and compensatory hirings, you have allowed working days to be extended to 10 hours, which will not help the situations of long-term patients. You are against the history of our great social struggles. We will come back to this subject for more information once the consultation has been completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u4	We've already had the opportunity to talk about it several times and I'd say it's starting to do well. We repeat the same thing all the time and I feel like I've already been through this sequence here in committee. Unfortunately, we must return to this aspect, to this sector in which we have not yet been able to reach negotiations. These are sectoral negotiations. One can see that domestic workers and their trade union organisations are mobilizing to organise many actions, such as those of 8 and 17 March. These workers, who are mostly female workers, face a boss who persists in leaving nothing. Why do you think sectoral negotiations are blocking in the service securities sector? Do you not see this as a responsibility in relation to the government's decision to block wages at 0.4%? What are you going to do to ensure that union claims are implemented, especially – and above all – with respect to the reimbursement of kilometric costs? Finally, what are you going to do in the future so that employers can no longer block workers' demands? What are you thinking about in the next interprofessional agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u5	Thank you, honourable Member, for your question, which has indeed already been discussed in this committee, and in particular with regard to the negotiations for a new sectoral agreement in the service securities sector. As you know, the main stumbling block remains the reimbursement of transportation costs. It was already an important point of discussion before the outbreak of the war in Ukraine, and it is of course even more topical with the rise or even explosion of fuel prices. Many workers in the sector have to use their own vehicles to get to the home of cheque users and are increasingly finding it difficult to pay the increasing travel costs only with their wages. However, I do not see a link between the Pay Standards Act and the travel reimbursement element. These are two different subjects. Finally, as far as social dialogue is concerned, you know that I attach great importance to it and that I respect it. I believe that the autonomy of the social partners must also be respected here, but I strongly urge the parties to get back to the table as soon as possible in order to find a solution. In addition, as you know, within the federal government, we have also taken steps to reduce the impact of rising energy costs. As far as mobility is concerned, it is the reduction of excise duties on petrol and diesel and the non-application of the tariff increase provided for by SNCB. On the other hand, on the basis of the fact that the current financial contribution of employers to the movement of workers or to other work trips, in all sectors, is often insufficient to cover the increase in costs, we have decided to release an envelope of EUR 30 million and we have invited the social partners meeting within the Group of Ten to come with proposals in this regard before the end of this month. The aim of these proposals must be to compensate for the increase in the cost of transport for workers during this year 2022. This is a specific and temporary envelope but does not call into question the need for a more structural solution called for by trade union representatives in the service securities sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u6	Minister, when you have nothing at all and you are in such a situation, as are domestic helpers, it is a bit difficult, when you propose something – even if it is not enough – to say that it does not mean anything, since you leave from nothing. I have heard what you have said: this does not solve the problem structurally. What you put forward therefore does not satisfy the unions at all because they want to go much further. You know that we share with you respect for social consultation. But what is a bit confusing is that in this government there is double standards as to how to interpret this respect for social consultation. When this blocks, we dare to make decisions which unfortunately often go against the workers. In this case, you are asked to go much further and unblock the case. I must not remind you that women and men are sleeping in their cars today because they can't afford gas to get to work. They get 13 cents a mile. It's about three times less than what we get in the public service. I would also point out that the average salary of these people is EUR 12.80 per hour. This is therefore not a fight against the biggest wages in the sector. We want – rightly – to get a little more purchasing power. So we are sincerely counting on you to unblock the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u7	Madam President, Minister, here too, we are facing a debate that we have already had the opportunity to conduct several times. These are platform workers. These workers, in one of the richest countries in the world, are actually underworkers. They don't have the same rights as others. It is these men - they are mostly men, this time - that we see moving in our cities, with their big refrigerated backpack, regularly on a bike, occasionally on a moped. These underworkers do not at all have the same status as all workers in this country. There are two possible statutes when you work in this sector. Either we're independent or we're a platform worker. In both cases, they do not have the same status as all workers. We have a bill calling for the rebuttable presumption of wage earners. As you know, Minister, in French, this means that these workers are either self-employed or working with under-statuses, and that the relevant platforms decide on the status of these workers. We want to reverse this trend. We want to ensure that all these workers are automatically regarded as wage-earners. If the platform wants these workers not to be, it is up to it to ask. It must seek the prior approval of the Administrative Commission for the Settlement of the Labour Relations. A bill has been put in place. Minister, do you confirm that this will remain a status quo on the ground? In fact, the status will always be imposed by the platforms and it is the workers who, individually, will always have to be brought to justice. Do you confirm that there will not be a true rebuttable presumption of wage-earnership, given the absence of the prior role of the Administrative Commission for the Settlement of the Labour Relations (CRT)? In the context of the negotiations within Vivaldi, however, there was a preliminary role for the TRC. In these circumstances, why was this point withdrawn? We look forward to an answer from you on this matter. According to us, you've been kicking. In any case, this point was included in the project and is no longer the case. The question arises as to why. Have you been under pressure? Against what compensation have you agreed to give up this important piece? I come to my question about the granting of occupational accident insurance. Today, these workers are not entitled to this insurance. Which workers will be able to benefit from it? Indeed, in recent months we have had to deal with two Pierre-Yves Dermagne, and we don't know which one to believe. In fact, since February 15, you can read on your website: "All workers working in the platform economy will be better protected in the event of an accident at work." At the beginning of March, however, the draft law stipulated that only self-employed persons would benefit from occupational accident insurance. On 8 March, in response to a question we asked in this committee, you confirmed on two occasions that all workers on the platforms would indeed be entitled to occupational accident insurance, including workers in the collaborative economy. Two weeks ago, you read on your Facebook page: "I will also make sure that workers on the self-employed platforms can benefit from occupational accident insurance." I told you, we don't know what Dermagne we have to believe! Will you exclude 80% of platform workers by not including workers in the collaborative economy so that they are finally entitled to this occupational accident insurance?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u8	As far as the presumption of wage earners is concerned, I would remind you that eight criteria, five of which were based on the European Commission's proposal, have been determined. It will be sufficient to prove that three of these eight criteria or two of the five European-inspired criteria are met for the presumption of wage earners to apply. The platform will be able to reverse this presumption, in the case of a rebuttable presumption, i.e. one that can be reversed, and the burden of proof will be on it to demonstrate the absence of a link of authority. This presumption may be invoked by workers before the Administrative Commission for the Settlement of the Labour Relations (CRT) or before the labour courts. Workers may, of course, be represented by an agent of their trade union organization before these bodies. This presumption may also be used by the competent inspection services. With regard to your specific question on the analysis and possible optimisation of the functioning of the procedures and the role of the TRC, a proposal was not made directly to the National Labour Council because with my colleagues Vandenbroucke and Clarinval, it was decided to work together with the TRC itself and the social partners on these more procedural aspects, and therefore on its functioning. This work is under way with the social partners within the TRC. As far as accidents at work are concerned, it seems necessary for me to clarify the draft in view of the current situation. As you know, the Brussels Labour Court recently issued a clear judgment on the peer-to-peer collaborative economy system as practised by platforms such as Deliveroo or Uber Eats. These platforms, according to the Brussels Labour Court, do not have the right to participate in the collaborative economy as such. They must therefore work either with employees or with self-employed persons. The abuse of peer-to-peer regulation is of course unacceptable. It is up to my colleague, the Minister of Finance, to oversee it. I therefore reiterate that every deliverer who works through an order-giving platform such as Deliveroo or Uber Eats, to name but two, must and will have to be covered by the Workers' Compensation Act if he is considered to be an employee. If he is employed as a principal or accessory self-employed person, he will benefit from the planned extension of the Workers' Compensation Act as contained in my draft bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u9	Minister, I don't know what to say. I had planned to tell you in my reply, according to your answer, that I was hoping you wouldn't drown the fish. But I'm gonna have to say it. I feel like you're drowning the fish! You confirm that it is always the worker who has to prove himself. You are not saying anything very clearly about health insurance in this area. Nor do you say anything about the fact that this was included in your original project and that it is no longer included in it. We are now learning that all this will be referred to the National Labour Council. Has there been any pressure to stop this from being included in the project? According to the feedback we received, there are differences in Vivaldi and the employer has put pressure on Minister Clarinval's office. You don't say anything about it either. We're staying with Normand's answer. I hope I don't have to infer that you lied. In any case, for us, until now – but you can still catch up – you have missed a historic opportunity to change the rules of the game in favour of these workers. We regret it. We continue to say that we have a bill that could have solved the problem, but you did not use it. We will of course come back to the subject and will continue to support the trade union organisations of all these workers in their struggle for their right to a status worthy of that name. Since your answer does not suit us, we are tabling a motion for recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u10	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Nadia Moscufo and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Nadia Moscufo and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Labour, - Whereas the reform proposal resulting from the Labour Agreement will not provide any real clarification of the status of platform workers; Whereas the presumption of wage-earning will not be effective on the ground, in particular because of the absence of a prior role for the Committee on Labour Relations; - Whereas it will always be for the workers to go individually to the courts to obtain a requalification of their status, with the consequences known (slowness of procedures, financial costs and risks of retaliation of the platform, to name but a few); - Whereas, in addition to the question of clarification of the statute, the extension of accident-at-work insurance as set out in the draft law will not include all platform workers; asks the government to grant a genuine rebuttable presumption of wage-earning for platform workers according to the following principle: platform workers are de facto employees and if the platform wants to enter into an independent relationship with such or such workers, it must first request authorisation from the Committee on Labour Relations Rules." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Nadia Moscufo and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Nadia Moscufo and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economy and Work, - whereas the reform proposal resulting from the work deal will not bring any real clarification of the status of platform workers; - whereas the presumption of an employed person will not have any effect in practice, in particular because the Committee on the Rules of Employment is not assigned a prior role; - whereas workers will always have to apply to the courts individually to obtain a requalification of their status, with the known consequences thereof (constant procedures, financial costs and risks of reprisals by the platform, to name but a few); - whereas, in addition to the question of clarification of the Staff Regulations, the extension of occupational accident insurance, as explained in the preliminary draft law, will not apply to all platform workers; calls on the Government a real rebuttable presumption of pay to the platform workers according to the following principle: the platform workers are de facto employees and if the platform wishes to grant certain workers the status of self-employed workers, it must first seek permission from the Employment Relations Committee." A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Chanelle Bonaventure. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Chanelle Bonaventure. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u11	Thank you, Member, for your question. The granting and payment of the Corona premium as well as the ecocheque to employees falls within the exclusive domain of the individual employment relationship which the employee has with his employer. The Joint Committee agreed on the conditions under which workers may be entitled to a coronary premium. The manner in which the worker is entitled to this premium must be examined on a case-by-case basis. It is the employer who hires a issuing company for these premium systems. The social partners of the Joint Committee are aware of the difficulties you are raising in your question. Employers' organisations have committed themselves to seeking solutions together and have sent additional communications to their members on this issue. If problems persist, the inspection can of course be called upon to safeguard workers' rights under the Act on the Protection of Workers' Compensation. This can be done, as you know, on the basis of an individual complaint or on the basis of a declaration by representative trade union organisations. To date, I have not been aware of any problems that would arise in other areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u12	Minister, thank you. You will understand that with the price of the energy that explodes and the wages blocked, the least crumbs can become very important. [[I have heard the various possibilities that you are referring to in order to solve the problem.]] We will monitor the situation on the ground and wait for the returns. We will then eventually come back to you to see if there is any legal possibility to find a solution to this problem when, on the ground, things are not going properly for the interests of the workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u13	Minister, on March 12, the police of the Vesdre area, in partnership with SPF Santé, SPF Finance, ONEM, ONSS and the labour auditorate, carried out an operation to monitor compliance with social laws in a series of pitta snacks in the municipalities of Verviers, Dison and Pepinster. The result was unglorious. Of the nine shops visited, only one was perfectly in order. For the others, the offences were numerous and varied: undeclared workers, sometimes even without a proper contract, non-compliance with defined timetables, and I pass by... The press regularly echoes such problems encountered in these establishments, all over Belgium. This situation affects not only the fundamental rights of employees, but also the interests of all those who carry out this activity under the rules and who, like all the self-employed, leave a difficult period. According to the information in your possession, are the results mentioned here similar to the average of the sector? Do we have global figures for 2021? How many companies does this represent? What could be the leads in order to identify fraudsters more effectively and more quickly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u14	Mrs Bonaventure, the activities of pitas snacks are not covered by a specific NACE code or joint committee but by the broader description of restricted service restaurants. As part of the joint inspections of the borough cells, 1,095 companies were inspected in 2021, of which 588 were found to be in breach, or 54%. The subjects covered by the various offences are: infringement of the Dimona declaration (333 companies), infringement of part-time work (177 companies), infringement of unemployment (99 companies) and infringement of employment of foreign workers (47 companies). These results are consistent with those of the control you mentioned, for which more than 80% of the controlled businesses were found to be in breach. Labour inspection services are well known that restricted-service restaurants - of which pita snacks represent only a part - are conducive to fraud. It is important to stress that the controls of the social inspection services are mainly oriented towards fraud and risk sectors rather than to specific types of enterprises. The list of priority fraud phenomena - including social dumping, undeclared work, trafficking in human beings - as well as sectors at risk to be treated as a priority by the inspection services are included in the annual action plans to combat social fraud. Pitta snacks are part of it, and the phenomena cited occur there. In terms of detection, inspectors use data mining and data matching, in order to target the companies to be controlled more effectively, by being in the right place at the right time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answer. A few months ago, I asked you a similar question about car-wash workers. The present situation is somewhat similar: that of a sector which is experiencing more difficulties than others in complying with certain rules. As with the car washes, that's what goes back on the ground in the exercise of my mandate as a CPAS advisor. Your answer just confirmed that. I will remain attentive to the activities of this sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u16	Madam President, Minister, since March 2020 and the start of many corona measures, the unemployment rate in this country has been much less controlled than before and much less sanctioned. The second is logical, because it follows from the first. The measures imposed in the context of the corona crisis have helped to prevent teams of the competent authorities from working at full force. I have every sympathy for that, especially in the first few months. However, now that the controls are slowly but surely restarting, the known problem becomes very clear again. People who do not work in this country, but could work, are not encouraged to do so. You can argue that I'm standing here again with the same straw. However, I'm not suggesting that alone. A very respectable member of the Actiris Management Committee, a very unsuspecting source of information on the subject, recently said: 'Our unemployment is a bit of a Win for Life at the moment. There is little or no exclusion, reduction or suspension. These are elements that add to the labour shortages. In view of the situation, checks should resume the pre-pandemic rhythm." We all know that today this country is suffering from an incredibly high deficit and an unbelievably tight labour market. At the same time, people are not or hardly encouraged to get to work. This, of course, threatens only to increase the problem of the cut, with all the consequences. So, Minister, my question to you is as follows. I can't imagine that the quote I gave you leaves you untouched. So here's what I'd like to know from you. Minister, do you intend to listen effectively to the regions and address the problem they call a Win for Life? After all, you know very well the following. It is also a very conscious choice, which you are certainly in favour of. After all, I have asked you about this choice before. Belgium is still one of the few large exceptions where unemployment benefits still apply indefinitely over time. Will you address that fact? If you will not do so, what will you do to tackle labour shortages? What will you do to activate as many people as possible? To this day, you have not come up with any activating measures. You've come out with a government labor deal. However, this work deal is not about activation but about modernising our labour law. So I am very curious about the activating measures that you will take.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u17	Mr Anseuw, I do not agree at all with the member of the Management Committee of Actiris you are quoting. I do not think that job seekers are in a comfortable situation. After two years of unemployment, for example, a head of household with dependent children will receive a benefit of only EUR 1,507 per month and I am not talking about people living together, often women, who receive a benefit of EUR 634 per month, an income well below the poverty line. So such low benefits are not Win for Life, Mr. Anseuw. While unemployment benefits are unlimited in time in Belgium, jobseekers have to prove very regularly that they are actively looking for work, if not lose their benefit for a relatively long period. Contrary to the picture that some people want to sketch, job seekers are not profiteers who are waiting for their benefits to be granted. The fact that a member of the management committee of an institution makes an unfounded statement does not mean that you can regard that as a request from the regions. I meet regularly with the regional ministers for employment and none of them asked me to limit unemployment benefits over time. I would, by the way, strongly oppose that. As far as the labour market is concerned, as I have said several times in Parliament, texts are being prepared to allow job seekers to combine part of their unemployment benefit with a contribution or salary if they find a job in another region in a bottleneck profession or if they are undergoing training for a bottleneck profession.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u18	Minister, I can tell from your answer that there is really little news under the sun about the activation of people. I would like to clarify a number of things for the sake of clarity. At Win for Life one gets an amount every month without having to do anything about it. Whether it makes one happy, and whether it puts one in a comfortable position, that is another matter. I agree with you that it would be a lot more comfortable for a lot of job seekers if they could get to work. That would strengthen their position and improve it. But also to limit unemployment over time, and I am not talking about the benefit, but about unemployment, you are not doing anything with the government. That is particularly regrettable, because it would be a very strong social policy if you and this government were to make every effort to help as many people as possible to get a good job. But until today, that intention, which is also stated in your coalition agreement, remains dead letter. That is very antisocial, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u19	Madam President, Minister, following the February 15 agreement on the week of 4 days (actually 10 a.m. day), on March 8, you confirmed to us that the arrangement, as currently drafted, does have a negative impact on the number of leave available, at least when the worker returns within a week of 5 days. You then informed us that your administration was examining how to combat this undesirable effect. Minister, where are you? What solution have you found to avoid this negative impact on the number of leave? If there is no solution yet, are you committing yourself today to the fact that there is, in the end, no negative impact of the week of the 4 days on the number of leave?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u20	Madam Chair, Madam Member, your question allows me to clarify certain points. As you pointed out, the annual leave rules are monitored by the annual leave unit within the Directorate-General for Policy Coordination of the Federal Public Service Social Security. So I questioned this administration, as I had committed myself to it. It appears from the information received from the Commission that it is of the opinion that the proposed measure concerning the full-time working week spread over 4 days does not affect the number of annual days to which the worker is entitled. As the worker retains his status as a full-time worker under this measure, he will continue to be entitled to the statutory minimum of 4 weeks of paid leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u21	Minister, I am pleased that the matter has been resolved in this way. With this reform, workers are asked to work for long days and eventually lose leave the following year. The answer given therefore constitutes only the minimum trade union, if I may say so. We are now waiting for this decision to be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u22	Mr President, on 18 March a draft Royal Decree was adopted by the Council of Ministers on your proposal, which amends the remuneration of the administration costs of the paying institutions responsible for the payment of unemployment benefits. It is now calculated according to a formula which takes account of falling or rising unemployment. To level out its impact, you will change a structural adjustment and the formula. Exactly what adjustment is being made? What is the financial impact on the government of the adjustment? Was a prognosis made based on the payout settings and if so, what is the impact per payout setting?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u23	Mr Verreyt, the current formula for the calculation of administrative costs is based on a mechanism of structural leap, which varies according to the number of cases accepted, i.e. payment files, decreases or increases compared to the base year 1991. More details on the formula can be found in the annex, which I will provide you with. In order to level the impact of the structural leap in the event of a decrease in the number of accepted cases, the formula will be revised from the service year 2022 onwards. The coefficient applicable to the factor Y in the event of a decrease in the number of cases accepted shall be adjusted to the coefficient applicable in the event of an increase in the number of cases compared to 1991, which was 0,05. In order to limit the budgetary impact to EUR 7,577,000 in 2022, 2023 and 2024, as included in the notifications of 20 October 2021 of the Council of Ministers, the draft Royal Decree established a different coefficient per year. The budgetary impact was therefore estimated at EUR 7,577,000 in additional fees for administrative costs of the payout institutions per year from 2022 onwards. The costs are borne by the global financial management, system of employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for the reply with the table. If unemployment is falling, that was always the intention of the measures - then there are also fewer costs. If a company works less well, they do what they need to do to reduce their costs. That is a good thing. However, we must also be able to cope with certain shocks. Over the past two years, we have suffered from a number of shocks, which we can't predict and which we'd rather not see anymore. In the meantime, the efficacy rate is also increasing. Especially in Flanders there is a very low unemployment rate of 4%. I think this can also be taken into account. I look forward to your reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u25	Thank you, Member, for your question. The work of the inter-federal platform is, as you know, a continuous work. It did not stop on 15 April last, a milestone in the process. For the platform, it is a matter of making recommendations and analysing the political proposals submitted to it. As part of this work, the platform has already produced several analyses concerning, inter alia, the monitoring of temporary unemployed persons and the exercise of a voluntary activity in relation to the concept of availability. On the basis of these analyses, in the framework of the Inter-Ministerial Conference with my colleagues from the federated entities, we were able to have constructive exchanges. We agreed that I would make concrete proposals in the coming days on the follow-up of the temporary unemployed and asked for further analysis on volunteering. As far as the employment rate is concerned, you will have noticed that the employment rate has increased further since we are now at a rate of 71.6%, which is a considerable 2.6% increase compared to the first quarter of 2021. The employment rate is now 1.2% higher than before the Corona crisis. While the measures to be taken in the framework of the platform will help to improve the employment rate, they are obviously not the only ones. Measures have already been taken, for example, in the context of the implementation of the social agreement and other measures within the framework of my powers, but also by my colleagues, whether in the field of taxation, the civil service or the self-employed. The federated entities are also taking important steps to achieve this goal, which I would like to welcome here. The mandate of the platform is very clear: it is a matter of working within the existing institutional framework and under no circumstances will it be a matter of reforming the State through this channel. Finally, as far as job shortages are concerned, I am also of the opinion that things need to be fine-tuned. That is the only reason why I have planned to set up a monitoring of shortages at the level of the various sectors of activity. The social partners will be responsible for the objective identification of occupations where there are difficulties and for proposing measures to remedy them. If necessary, these measures will obviously aim at improving the quality of employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u26	Minister, thank you for that clarification. We note that the date of April 15 was a milestone. In short, the reflection continues. This helps us, because you know that the PTB is generally opposed to an asymmetrical policy; not as a matter of principle, but because we are concerned about certain potential measures. Indeed, this policy seems to us to be a factor in the division of the class of workers, the aim of which would be to draw down conditions of work and remuneration. On the contrary, we need quality jobs, especially in the health care sectors. You mentioned the analysis of the shortage, which you will refine. For us, this question seems to have to be put in parallel with that of the jobs to be proposed from a qualitative perspective. There's a lot of work left. We talked earlier about service titles. I will not confront you with explaining the difficult situation of hospital workers. Minister, we will come back to you for more information on the solution you have chosen.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u27	Madam President, the exact title of my question is "Workers' difficulties and government responses". Mr Minister, weeks pass quickly and leave comes, in any case for those who can benefit from it, while the difficulties of workers are increasing: rising prices of energy, fuel, foodstuffs, etc. Everything goes up, except for salaries. On the energy side, the war in Ukraine does not offer reassuring prospects and fuel aid has had no effect. As far as food is concerned, I refer to the Test-Achats study showing a price increase of 4.3% in just one year. Do you intend to improve and strengthen our indexing system, including fuel prices? Will you take action to ensure that workers are fully compensated for their home-to-work journey? Your party president stated on the RTBF on March 24th that employers had to pay more for the kilometric costs. He was right. How will you translate this? Will you take action to ensure that teleworkers are fully compensated for their energy-related costs? What will you do in the face of employers blocking this issue? Do you hold discussions to increase the flat-rate office allowance for teleworkers - currently capped at €134.71/month?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u28	It is no secret, Minister, that many workers are having a particularly difficult time, especially with rising inflation and, above all, with rising energy prices. It is absolutely impossible for some people to travel to and from work by public transport. They have to do that with the car. I am thinking in particular of the domestic helpers who go from family to family. Between two assignments there is too little time, let alone every family living close to a bus stop. Moreover, they have all their polish stuff with them, which doesn't make it obvious. In the context of budgetary control, the government has released EUR 30 million to reduce the increasing travel costs. I think that's very good news. Do you have any idea what's going to be done with that 30 million? What's it for? What are the modalities? What's the procedure? What's the timing? It is important for the workers to know that, because the water has been on their lips for some time. They want to know when they will be able to avail themselves of this additional support.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u29	Mr Minister, all three of these combined questions are related to the employee's wallet, but they are different in substance. My question is about high inflation, which leads to a series of index increases for both wages, pensions and replacement income. This is done at different times, which is peculiar to the statute and to the collective agreements which apply to the various workers. However, especially in years where this is happening very quickly, we see that this creates considerable inequalities. Some workers have to wait almost a year for their wages to be indexed, while others already see this after one month on their pay slip. Do you recognise that the different timing of indexation will encourage inequality? Will you take an initiative to restore equality among workers in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Moscufo, contrary to what you say, wages have increased in our country during this period of inflation, thanks to the automatic indexing of wages and allowances that protects the purchasing power of workers and social beneficiaries. I would also like to point out that the minimum wage has been raised historically on 1 April and will continue to rise in the years to come. As you know, I strongly defend the mechanism for indexing wages and social benefits. This is a social achievement that Belgium should be proud of. I don't intend to touch that. As for the differences in indexation between workers, this is one of the consequences of social consultation. Since various collective agreements have been negotiated by the social partners, different arrangements have been agreed. I could give you a few of them, but I don't have them in front of me. In particular, there are differences in the Horeca sector, in the banking sector and in the construction sector. We are indeed faced with different arrangements, but this is entirely and fully within the competence of the social partners. However, I can hear the concern of having a more uniform system. It was important for me to be able to intervene more in the relocation of workers. To this end, the government has made available a budget of EUR 30 million. This budget is available to the social partners within the Group of Ten, whose task is to make concrete and appropriate proposals in this area. The principles and framework for teleworking are set out in collective agreement 85, which is essential for the social partners. This agreement provides that the employer must pay the connection and communication costs related to telework and the employee must compensate for the use of his own equipment. As far as energy costs are concerned, the worker and the employer may also agree to take care of them. With due respect for social consultation, it is of course not up to me to rewrite an agreed collective agreement. However, I have asked the social partners to update it in the light of the recent crises we have experienced and are still experiencing. I hope that now that telework is no longer compulsory, the social partners will be able to reach a rapid conclusion. Finally, with regard to the taxation of the flat-rate office allowance, I would ask you to ask my excellent colleague, the Minister of Finance, who is responsible for this. With respect to the application of this allowance in the public service, please address this question to my other excellent colleague, the Minister of the Public Service, who is responsible for this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u31	Minister, in the wake of my questions, I had forgotten the last one, which you saw in writing. I would like to know whether you intend to work towards the reform of the 1996 law. Here too, your president had pleaded for an increase in wages, and he was still right. In this regard, I am referring to the citizens' petition which has already collected 90,000 signatures, and I would like to take this opportunity to say that we will support trade union organisations which will organise social actions. We'll be by their side. You say that you do not want to intervene in the concertation, but I invite you once again to ask your President how he sees things. I repeat, however, that he said that employers had to pay the kilometric charges better. Maybe he has an idea that we don't understand and that could be creative about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I believe that the social partners are best placed to define the priorities to be given in the implementation of the transfer costs budget. I would urge them not to delay this for too long. I told you earlier, I don't need major investigations to know that the water is on the lips of some people. We have often intervened here for the housekeepers. They don't get a higher transfer fee. This is linked to regional subsidies, I am aware of that. However, I believe that they, and certainly others, need a little bit of work. I hear all kinds of things saying here and I would like to stress that purchasing power for us as socialists in this government is very important. We'll do everything we can to protect it. I would remind you of the index jump decided by a right-wing government in 2014. At the same time, the VAT rate for energy was increased from 6% to 21%. We came to Brussels with hundreds of thousands of people, but nothing moved in the government. Now the government is defending the index, which goes along with inflation and which studies say it is the best protection for the purchasing power of workers. At the same time, we have brought the VAT rate for energy back to 6%.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. I am pleased that you acknowledge that there are differences between the various collective agreements in the various joint committees and that these differences are usually not eliminated by a minister, but by the social dialogue which is specific to those joint committees. I believe, however, that at a time when inflation is very high we must not only regret the great differences between workers and workers but also do something about it. I believe that we must ensure that the differences between workers and workers are flattened, possibly through a commitment to the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u34	Mr Minister, the war in Ukraine obviously creates human catastrophes first in Ukraine. It is the Ukrainian people who pay. But there are also serious economic consequences for Belgian companies and workers. Many sectors are affected, such as aviation, chemistry, the automotive sector, food, steel and many others. Minister, how do you assess the impact of the Russian invasion on our businesses and workers? According to some, the effect of the war on Europe could be even more devastating than the health crisis. What are you putting in place to protect workers from such effects? Given the difficulties associated with purchasing power and the two years of health crisis, are you going to increase temporary unemployment benefits? Moreover, what about the assimilation of these periods for this year's holiday paper? What are you putting in place to prevent workers from experiencing the impact of the Russian assets freeze? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u35	Mr Minister, the Russian aggression in Ukraine has, of course, a great deal of impact on that country and its inhabitants, but there are also some consequences in our country. These are, in the first place, consequences for the economy. At present, the labour indicators are still very positive, but the Ukraine crisis and the problems associated with it are nevertheless revealing problems for our labour market. On the one hand, there are problems with the supply of raw materials, resulting in a sharp increase in prices, and on the other hand, the explosive energy costs that some companies decide to stop or lower their activities. Some companies, for example in the food sector, are reducing their production. This will, of course, have consequences for our labour market and may lead to a sharp rise in economic unemployment. Can companies, on their own initiative, reduce or stop production for reasons of profitability, invoke temporary unemployment for economic reasons or for reasons of force majeure? How will your services check whether or not these economic reasons are unforeseen? Can force majeure be invoked? Will you set up a task force to monitor the labour market closely, to see what additional measures are needed to deal with the consequences of this crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u36	On 14 March, the nuclear cabinet decided to extend the simplified procedure for unemployment until 30 June 2022. This applies both to temporary unemployment resulting from the corona pandemic and to temporary unemployment linked to the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. It means that all temporary unemployment resulting from the coronapandemic or the war in Ukraine until 30 June 2022 can be declared and accepted as temporary unemployment due to force majeure, even if it is of an economic nature. The simplified procedure for temporary unemployment can therefore be applied very broadly, including by companies which would be forced, for reasons of profitability, to limit or even temporarily stop their production. The federal government is therefore closely following the economic consequences of the war in Ukraine. For example, we asked the National Bank for an in-depth analysis of the impact of the war in Ukraine by the end of April, in partnership with the SPF Economy and the Federal Office of the Plan. The Government also asked the Group of Ten to prepare a proposal in the near future to mitigate the rise in energy prices for businesses based on the results of the National Bank study. The social partners are consulted on the additional measures to be taken to deal with the economic consequences of the war in Ukraine. Of course, all the measures that will be deemed necessary will be taken by the government, as we did during the Coronavirus crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u37	Minister, thank you. The situation is relatively serious for a large number of workers, even for those who thought they were spared by the crisis - I must not draw a drawing to explain it - because of the rise in energy prices. A strong response from the government is expected, inter alia, to assimilate periods of temporary unemployment for holiday pecules, but also to revise the unemployment benefit to avoid a fall in income. Of course, all these measures are costly. It has recently been reported that large employers have seen their wages increase by more than 15 per cent. We also believe that, in the face of this war, we must think about how to get money from those warlords. I am thinking mainly of the oil sector, arms dealers and financiers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for the answers to the various questions. We're obviously following it well. You have asked various authorities to make all kinds of calculations and to assess the impact of the crisis in Ukraine on our economy. However, we cannot say that the government must do more, because there is also the factor of energy prices. You know our views on this: we can do more in that. This is, after all, the most important factor that causes companies to lose sight of the situation and to stop or reduce their production. If the government can do something about that, we can keep more people working. We can therefore ensure that our food sector does not stop and that the products remain available in the shop. In this way, we can also reduce the impact of the Ukraine crisis on our economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u39	Madam Member, as you know, I received EuroChem's unions before the Easter holidays. Of course, there was a great deal of concern about employment and wage payments, and we can understand that. Immediately after this meeting, I also contacted the political unit of Minister Van Peteghem, whose administration is responsible for the implementation of European sanctions. As you were also able to learn from the press in the meantime, after the agreement for the payment of salaries, the FPS Finances has granted permission for a partial restart of activities. This is the production of simple fertilizers and the sale of fertilizers still in stock at the Antwerp plant. Revenues can only be used for essential payments such as the payment of wages. It is clear that it is not an easy exercise to properly apply European sanctions, on the one hand, and to look after the interests of Belgian workers, on the other. The administration of my colleague, the Minister of Finance, is following this issue closely and will, of course, discuss with the company and its representatives the possibilities for the coming period. Again, I express my full readiness to accompany the union representatives as well as the management of the plant in order to find solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u40	Minister, thank you. In the face of such instability and the lack of certainty for these EuroChem workers, long-term responses should be obtained. We know that there have been short-term agreements and that is very good, but it is in the long run that the problem of uncertainty for workers is resolved. What about wage payments in the coming months? When will production be able to resume full-time? Who will take over the company in the longer term? Given that the war is going on, that sanctions are increasing and that the risk of escalation is unfortunately very real, we will have to put in place lasting solutions to preserve employment and ensure that the production of fertilizers is sustained, which is an important point for our food production. It would be interesting to think now about a longer-term takeover of the company by the state. We will come back to ask you about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u41	Madam President, Minister, on August 1st, as enshrined in the Interprofessional Agreement (IPA) 2021-2022, the opportunity was offered to the various professional sectors to provide for a Corona bonus to workers in companies that had achieved good results during the pandemic. Given in the form of consumer cheques, this premium could amount to a maximum of EUR 500. It is the responsibility of the sectors to choose to impose it on the undertakings, to determine more precisely the amount of it and to determine the criteria for determining the "good results" of those undertakings. Without a sectoral decision, each employer could retain the possibility of granting the bonus on its own initiative. This premium has benefited from social and tax treatment which is advantageous for the employer and the worker. It was to be granted by 31 December 2021. At the end of December, as several sectors were not ready to enter into an agreement, the decision was made by royal decree to leave an additional three months for employers who wished to do so to grant such cheques. In a context of painstaking pandemics for the entire population, during which some companies have, despite everything, enjoyed comfortable profits, the aim of this measure was to enable workers to benefit from the benefits they have helped to bring. The time for the evaluation of this measure has now arrived. I would therefore like to know whether it has made it possible, in accordance with its objective, to reward the workers of the companies which have prospered in recent months. Minister, can you provide me with an inventory of the corona premiums awarded by the various sectors and companies? What sectors did they actually reach an agreement on that occasion? What is the average amount? Have companies not covered by sectoral agreements granted the premium? For what average amount? What is the percentage of Walloon, Flemish and Brussels companies which have granted their workers a premium negotiated in the AIP?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u42	Madam President, Mrs Cornet, if you have no objection, I will answer your question mainly in writing because the answer to it is relatively technical, with a lot of numbers. There are also many joint committees and subcommittees. However, I can tell you in broad terms that, according to the estimate made, 1.7 million workers would have already used the Corona premium. The total value of the corona premiums issued is EUR 483 million, with an average value of the premium of EUR 284. A total of 56 joint committees are involved in this coronary bonus. But, as you know, it should also be made clear that the award of the Corona premium can also be organised at company level. For the remainder, I refer to the written reply that I will forward to you through the secretariat of the committee. Finally, I do not currently have a region-by-region breakdown. I'll see if it's possible to get it in the next few days or weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u43	Minister, thank you for that answer. I will study the written document. It is obviously easier to communicate the figures in writing. I understand, however, that the average value is EUR 284, which is well below the EUR 500 that could be granted. This means that a huge number of workers who were entitled to this 500 euro premium were unable to pick up the maximum amount of the premium. I think this really needs to be integrated into a comprehensive evaluation of the effectiveness of this type of device. Although this was a good solution at that time in this context to seek maximum wealth-sharing under this 1996 law and the 0.4% increase which was extremely small, on the part of environmentalists, there is of course always a preference for an increase in gross wages. I'm sure I'll have a chance to get back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u44	Madam Chair, Minister, I would like to update our discussions on this subject on a regular basis. In March 2021 the Ecolo-Groen Group tabled a bill to freeze the degression of unemployment benefits during maternity leave for unemployed workers. It is intended to put an end to a flagrant situation of discrimination against women, which, although temporarily outside the labour market, suffers the effects of a degression whose aim is, I would remind you, to bring to employment those who are active. The discriminatory nature of this provision calls not only for an end to it, but above all for an early end to it. On 5 October last you indicated, in response to a question, that an entry into force of the measure could be expected on 1 January 2022 and that in order to obtain an effective freeze on the degressivity of unemployment benefits, an amendment to the INAMI regulation should also be envisaged, and that you had therefore contacted your colleague Mr Vandenbroucke. Finally, you confirmed your commitment to this issue in your policy note, referring to a slightly later implementation. We had this exchange at the time of the discussion of the policy note. Minister, we are now in April and I would like to take stock with you. What are you doing in the drafting of these texts? When can we expect an end to the degression of unemployment benefits during maternity leave to come into effect? Do you confirm that the calculation of the degression freeze will include every week of incapacity and not only full months of incapacity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Cornet, for your follow-up question. As you pointed out and as I indicated in my policy note, I am particularly committed to implementing this measure. I know you share the same concern and commitment. To this end, regulations have been drafted and submitted to the Management Committee of the ONEM. The draft decree amends the existing regulations, namely the Royal Decree of 25 November 1991 regulating unemployment to include periods of maternity in the provisions on the freezing of degression. The text is intended to cover the period during which a worker is entitled to maternity benefits. However, as you have pointed out, in general, the unemployment rules provide that this calculation is made in full months. With regard to the entry into force of the measure, the necessary budgets must be made available in advance to implement it. I hope to be able to do so as soon as possible and I reiterate my commitment to the implementation of this measure of correction of stark inequality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I hear you haven't been able to move forward yet, but I also hear your determination to continue. You know, since I am a co-sponsor of this text, that I take this issue particularly seriously and that we support you in this desire to advance equality. Indeed, in the opinions we have requested for our bill, the Court of Auditors had pointed out that the measure would cost 2.4 million per year. This amount is extremely small compared to the amounts we are used to managing. I therefore encourage you to really find both political will and partnerships so that we can move things forward towards this balance between men and women. Even if this fight is symbolic, it is fair and I really want you to succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u47	Question No 55026753C by Mrs Cécile Cornet is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u48	Madam President, Minister, in our Committee on Social Affairs there are some proposals for discussion on the extension and improvement of parental leave. You yourself indicated that you would like to change the arrangements in this area. A few weeks ago, your Flemish fellow Minister, Mr Wouter Beke, made some remarkable statements about parental leave, including the time span during which parental leave can be taken. Did you talk to your colleague about this recently, Minister? What is your opinion on his statements as if it was recommended to grant parental leave only in a short period after birth? When will you submit proposals yourself in committee? Which will be the spearheads of your policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u49	Madam President, Mrs Samyn, as you know, the Directive 2019/1158 on work-life balance for parents and carers, the Work-Life Balance Directive, is due to be transposed by 2 August 2022 at the latest. The draft texts transposing that directive will be submitted to the Council of Ministers in the coming days. Each level of government will also have to implement that directive for its own administrations. Coordination meetings are planned for this purpose. The Directive lays down parental leave obligations already contained in previous Directives implementing the revised Framework Agreement on Parental Leave. The Work-Life Balance Directive requires Member States to take the necessary measures to ensure that each worker is individually entitled to four months of parental leave before the child reaches a certain age. It is specified that that age should be determined in such a way that each parent can exercise his or her right to parental leave effectively and under equal conditions. Parental leave can be taken in Belgium until the child is 12 years old. According to the standstill principle, it is not possible to lower that age limit. In addition, the social partners are currently working on simplifying, optimizing and harmonising the various leave arrangements. The coalition agreement states that this exercise must be accompanied by special attention to leave for the sake of care and the combination of work and family life.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic754x.u50	Minister, your Flemish colleague's proposal has received little support. Using parental leave to solve the problems in child care does not help the cause anything. More investment in childcare needs to be made. I know this is not your competence, but you can ensure a better balance between work and family through better leave systems. I look forward to the draft texts on the work-life balance, which are certainly worth more than a debate.
