ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u1	Madam Minister, the war in Ukraine has made everyone aware that the threat to a chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear war has unfortunately become a little bit bigger. It was a bit dull after the Cold War. Now we are once again getting into the spotlight of what capacities we have to deal with this. Minister Vandeput had taken a number of good steps in his strategic vision. The question is whether additional measures are needed to combat it sufficiently. There is also coordination with other bodies, such as Home Affairs and Civil Protection, with a view to a joint defence against it. Can you analyse the chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear capacity, short the CBRN, anno 2022 for the components of Defense? What else is there? Where are the shortcomings? What is the level of ambition? When drawing up the strategic vision in 2016, one was far-sighted enough to strengthen capacity and investments were registered in the field of individual equipment. During a recent work visit we also received the necessary insights. The necessary material has been introduced to us there. Among other things, heavier investments in vehicles and protective tents were also planned for 2027. Can you give us an update on these investments? Did additional investments have been studied or already approved in the preparation of the STAR plan? Then we're still talking about the military programming law. What's on the list of priorities? Is the medical component today able to treat Ukrainian gas attack victims properly? Were there any checks on the broad hospital network? Given the forward position of our troops in Romania, it is important to consider whether there is a potential spill-over effect. Was a certain level of protection against CBRN taken into account in the preparation and compilation of the multinational deployment from Romania? If so, what does that protection consist of?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u2	Madam Secretary, are exercises planned for this? What about the vacancies for those units? Are they well-stocked? Does Belgium contribute to the NATO task force in question? How does it evaluate the Belgian-Dutch cooperation that has existed in this area for a number of years?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u3	Mr President, according to NATO standards, the CBRN capability of Defence is based on a structure of three complementary response levels for all components. The first level basic applies to all military and that corresponds to the individual skills taught to everyone and reviewed annually. The strategic vision 2016 limited the amount of available individual protective equipment to a hypothetical level of ambition for expeditionary missions. In other words, the military must share the individual equipment, which leaves a significant number of our military unprotected in a collective defence scenario. This will be corrected by the STAR plan as a matter of priority. In addition, all operational units should also have a CBRN defence structure and the necessary unit level equipment tailored to the threat level, which is the second or enhanced level. The third level, the specialised CBRN unit, is mainly based on the country component, but provides joint expertise and support. The specialised CBRN units will eventually have four disinfection stations, two disinfection modules for non-ambulant wounded, four ordered detection, identification and sampling teams, four warning and reporting teams and four lightweight CBRN support teams for special operations. The purchase of the CBRN platform for motorised exploration and the replacement of the collective protection tents are included in the STAR plan. The CBRN e-threat is considered serious, but has so far been considered only a part of the Russian communication strategy. The situation is closely monitored by the specialist analysts of ADIV and through optimal networking with our military and civil partners. The Belgian military in Romania were deployed with a probable threat in mind. Therefore, each soldier on the spot has the appropriate individual warning and protection equipment to protect himself against such a risk. As far as collective protection is concerned, combat vehicles have an adequate system to protect the crewed sections. If the threat level increases, the collective CBRN protection tents will be deployed. The STAR plan allocates twice as much resources to CBRN as was promised in the previous strategic vision. The security and equipment of the military are my priorities. A CBRN function within the military engineer discipline is not always related to a particular component. There are currently approximately 155 functions to be filled in, including 20 fte for the air component and 136 fte for the land units in Amay, Castle and CBRN school in Amay. Unlike 2021, in 2022, Defence does not contribute to NATO's Combined Joint CBRN Defence Task Force. In 2023, a contribution will be made to the VJTF with different specialised capacities. There is currently no plan to scale up the contribution. Defence contributes according to available capacities, according to the level of ambition and taking into account the current staff reality of the units. In the context of the preparation and contribution to the VJTF Multinational CBRN Detachment, Defence participates in an important exercise in Germany this year. The aim is to assess the level of preparation of the teams and to obtain the necessary certification. Each year, Defence also participates in CBRN exercises under NATO, to train interoperability with other NATO partners in close CBRN conditions. As regards cooperation with the Netherlands, Defence has a liaison officer within the CBRN knowledge centre in Vught. Defence also participates in CBRN exercises in the Dutch CBRN training centre at least 4 times a year. There is also a regular dialogue with our other neighbouring countries within the framework of the various initiatives, such as the Framework Nations Concept and the CBRN Network Cluster, which are led by Germany, but also with France as part of the CaMo project. The depth of these dialogues will, of course, be strengthened by the current crisis in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u4	Madam Secretary, thank you for your positive answer. It is important to build further and extend the plans as they were forged in previous years. We therefore support the investments you have proposed here. It is also good to hear, in response to a question from Mr Pillen, that we are working on cooperation and joint exercises with the Netherlands, France and Germany. Hopefully we will not have to use the equipment, but at least we should be armed in case of annoying calamities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u5	Madam Minister, here too I agree with what the President said. It was a very full answer, thank you for that. The only point of interest is once again the issue of staff shortages, which is generally the case for Defence. It is important that we recruit additional people to be able to train people in the light of the threat, so that we are prepared for the additional material that you rightly provide. We need people who can use all that new material. Hopefully that will never be necessary, but these people must of course be ready. That is an old very that hopefully will be helped by the government's plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u6	Debates of the European Parliament 55026797C Mr Dallemagne's 55026812C will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u7	Madam Secretary, Defense is about to change uniforms. The SSC consortium (Sioen, Seyntex, Crye Precision) signed the contract for the new Belgian Defence Clothing System (BDCS). This includes a new camouflage pattern, with the distinctive jigsaw trading place for the new multicam after decades of service. To roll out BDCS, SSC received a contract for no less than 15 years worth 410 million euros, according to the accompanying press release. Can you explain the agreement? What exactly is contained in the deal? What is covered by the mentioned EUR 410 million? Is that just the basic equipment for the next 15 years or also the additional specialised equipment such as CBRN and ballistic protection? Is it equipment for all components or is it actually mainly aimed at the army? Can you give an overview of how the payment will take place? Does that happen in annual drives? If so, can you give an overview of the expected payments for the coming years? Is this contract budgeted for the expansion of our army, as would be foreseen in the STAR plan? In other words, is the plan calculated on the current occupation of 25,000 FTEs or is there already a larger reduction foreseen? How did the Defence Department select this pattern for the equipment and what were the costs associated with the 2.5 year selection process of the new clothing? How much of the 410 million euros is earmarked for Crye Precision to use their patent on camouflage equipment? What about the plans for one cloaking equipment for the Belgian and Dutch Navy? Does this plan take account of the creation of the binational Belgian-Luxembourg unit?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u8	Madam Minister, for the questions, I would like to build on the explanations given to us in the Subcommittee on Army Purchasing. I think it is important that the information we received there should also be given in open court. With regard to the contract that Defence has concluded with the SSC consortium, I would like to know whether ballistic protection and protection against CBRN are also covered by the contract. Can you explain more about the distribution of the BDCS across the different components? According to you, is this distribution in balance or is the focus more on one component or the other? How will the payment be settled in practice in the case of annual payments? Then what are the costs that you are charging for the coming years? This has already been mentioned in the subcommittee, but it is important to confirm it here. Will account be taken of the increase in staff you set out in the STAR plan, at least according to the media? In what way? What are the expected additional costs if we have to order more uniforms if the additional recruitments are to be achieved? Like Mr Francken, do I also want to know whether the contract takes into account the creation of a Belgian-Luxembourg unit? What's this gonna look like? Can you explain the choice for the multicam as a pattern for the equipment? What is the precise distribution of the 410 million euros for this contract among the different players involved, Sioen, Seyntex and Crye Precision? Can you explain this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u9	As Mrs Ponthier has just said, for more than two and a half hours, we have received explanations from the services which have done a remarkable and very thorough job on this issue in my view. I don't know if the minister's gonna do it again. That's not possible! Are the documents used for the special commission presentation of Military Purchases and Sales secret or, since this contract is now practically authorized, cannot be handed over to parliamentarians?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u10	Mr Flahaut, I understand your point. We will not have a debate on this. There has indeed been a very comprehensive explanation at the closed meeting. Some questions are now being asked here, and I believe that the Minister is old and wise enough to assess which of them can be answered in this public forum, but I understand your comment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u11	Mr President, I am not speaking for the minister, I am speaking for myself. I don't want to hear the same Mass twice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u12	This is an important investment that can also be tolerated by a public discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u13	Mr President, if you are sitting in a closed session, you must keep your mouth shut. Mr Flahaut, I am not on that committee. This question was also put for the explanatory statement in that committee. I assume that as a full member of this committee I can ask all the necessary questions. The members who are on that committee, such as Mr Buysrogge and the collaborator, cannot tell me what was being discussed there. I'm allowed to ask questions about that, aren't I? After all, I'm not on that committee. That's not illegal, is it, Mr Flahaut? Do you have a problem with that? You will then have to bring that up at the Conference of Presidents. I'm not a member of the Army Procurement Commission. I ask questions about things that are decided by the Council of Ministers. I get the bulletin of decisions every Friday. There are a lot of calls for tenders and awards from the Defense Department. I regularly ask questions about this in this committee, as a non-member of the Army Procurement Committee. That is my parliamentary right and you will not deprive me of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u14	Madam Secretary, when new uniforms are put into service, that means that a lot of old uniforms are discarded. You won't be surprised that I have a few questions about that. I understand that these uniforms, because of this camouflage pattern, cannot be given to the shop, but there are many other possibilities if the government wants to give an example in the area of circular economy and promote them. I therefore have a few specific questions about the recycling of these uniforms. Does this agreement and the budget, which colleagues have just discussed in detail, include a part to deal with the current uniforms and/or give them a second life? What are the concrete plans? What will be done about it? Can they still be recycled as work uniforms, for example, or can they have a second life somewhere in the army? Today, substances can also be reprocessed into wire and then effectively give them a second life. Is there cooperation with neighbouring countries or with other Member States of the European Union? Madam Secretary, in other words, what happens to the old uniforms?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u15	In early April 2022, the contract for the new operational clothing, the Belgian Defence Clothing System, was awarded to the consortium SSC, Sioen, Seyntex, Crye Precision. The purpose of this programme is to provide the military personnel of the Defence Department with new clothing and equipment, with the exception of the Navy. It is a durable, operational and technologically updated clothing and equipment system, including a new multivalent camouflage pattern. The programme includes the implementation of a sustainable logistics support plan for the rapid and timely realisation of the initial distribution and for the withdrawal of existing clothing and equipment items, the provision of sufficient buffer capacity, the realisation of a strong local anchoring on Belgian territory and the design of a continuous improvement and innovation programme that allows Defence to invest during the duration of the framework agreement in research and development activities that contribute to the continuous improvement and modernisation of clothing and equipment products according to operational needs. The BDCS programme includes both basic clothing and specialised clothing and equipment for the military personnel of Defence. BDCS provides an integrated multilayer concept, each layer having a specific purpose and having to meet specific technical textile requirements. This multilayer system includes protection equipment, such as ballistic protection, CBRN clothing, underwear, rain clothing and additional equipment, such as backpacks and helmets, which will be delivered from 2025 onwards. The orders under the framework agreement are contained in a five-year plan. For 2022 there is a budget of EUR 45 million, covering the flat-rate costs and the costs for the initial distribution. For 2023 there is a budget of 25 million euros, in 2024 there is 12 million euros and in 2025 there is 30 million euros. The contract allows to take into account an increased recruitment of new military. The camouflage pattern was proposed by the selected consortium. In terms of technical requirements, the camouflage pattern had to provide protection in the multispectral domain against enemy observation devices and those requirements were controlled and evaluated by the Defence Laboratory and the Royal Military School. A tender fee of EUR 50,000 was paid to the consortium that was not selected according to the rules.The winning consortium SSC did not charge any costs for using the patent of Crye. In the context of more extensive binational cooperation with Luxembourg, it is foreseen that Luxembourg will become a member of the BDCS programme. The conditional participation amounts to up to 35 million euros This is not part of the 410 million euros for the Belgian Defence Department. No distributions will be made for the amount of the contract, as it is a price submitted by a consortium and not by the partners individually. The operational clothing for the Navy is bought jointly with and under the direction of the Netherlands. The roll-out of a new camouflage pattern for the Navy is planned for autumn 2022. The realisation of the new BDCS clothing contract took into account the various aspects of sustainability and corporate social responsibility throughout the production chain, the use of fewer raw materials in production or packaging, the use of biocotton in operational clothing, the minimalisation of the ecological transport footprint, the recycling of equipment and processing in industrial felts. The aspects relating to the recycling and processing of clothing and equipment were also included in the contract for both the current clothing and the items to be delivered under the contract. To this end, the consortium cooperates with companies in Belgium, the Netherlands and Sweden. When handing out the new clothing, the military must return their clothes, which they have been given on loan, for recycling. The additional cost for this recycling is €600,000 and for the specific recycling of ballistic protection €25,000.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u16	Madam Minister, thank you very much for the explanation. In itself, it is a good thing that new uniforms are coming and that the contract is finally concluded. It's been a long time. That's what I support. The question is only the next one. So it's 410 million euros for 25,000 people. You state in your program law that it is your ambition to go to 29,000 soldiers. So there are a few thousand more land and air forces. Is there an option in the contract to purchase additional uniforms or should a whole new award procedure be launched if necessary? So can you buy another 3,000 to 4,000 new uniforms? If I have understood correctly, there is also an additional cost. The navy uniforms are still purchased together with the Netherlands. The EUR 410 million is therefore to be added to the price for 4,000 uniforms. That will be about EUR 50 million extra. In addition, the price for the navy uniforms will be added, for which there will be a separate tender. We are then in total well above EUR 500 million for the contract. Do you know what this is all about? Is it possible to order, or should a new tender be made all over again, which is, of course, very official and administrative?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u17	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The fact that ballistic protection and protection against CBRN damage are also covered by the contract is, of course, positive. You say that it is drawn up according to operational needs. Of course, that will be included in the coming years. However, I have a number of reservations about the increase in staff that you have put in front of you. You say that the contract allows us to take account of this increase in staff. You remain vague as to its practical impact. Whether the increase in staff also applies to the other components is unclear. The possibilities of the contract seem limited to me at the moment. You also say that at the moment the Belgian-Luxembourg unit is not part of the current contract and that it will have to adhere to the current contract. That does not seem to me to be very progressive, if you put this Belgian-Luxembourg unit at the forefront. As for the choice for the MultiCam, I didn't hear you. That may be up to me, but I will certainly see how that pattern has been achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u18	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. Of course, we can only welcome the fact that various aspects of sustainability and corporate social responsibility are included in the tender. As to how the old army clothing will be specifically recycled, I'm still a little bit hungry. I understand that five minutes is too little to go into, so I will put a written question on that in order to find out the precise details. You have stressed the new purchases to say how we are dealing with sustainability and corporate social responsibility, but this seems to me to be an excellent opportunity to show just now that there is still a lot to be made of old clothing, ranging from insulation material or new clothing to everything. I hope that through a written question I can get some details on that. For example, we can show that the circular economy is in fact already a reality by 2022, and that the government is taking the lead in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u19	Madam Minister, NATO Foreign Ministers have approved the DIANA Charter and a venture capital innovation fund worth EUR 1 billion. This new transatlantic technology accelerator must bring the innovative, civilian and military worlds closer together to develop advanced solutions around and against new disruptive technologies. More than 60 innovation sites were selected for this, with ten accelerator sites, which will provide funding and guidance to participating start-ups, and 50 dedicated test centres that will host laboratories and equipment. The United Kingdom and Estonia shot the main bird and will house its headquarters with the leading fraternizing accelerator. Our country too would have applied and asked for recognition for one innovation accelerator and four test centres. Can the Minister confirm our candidacy for one accelerator and four test centers? How many of these have finally received the agreement of our allies? Can the Minister outline what the direct benefits of these organisations will be under DIANA, how this will strengthen them and what funding will be linked to them? The UK took over its headquarters because Imperial College in London already houses the British Defence and Security Accelerator. Do Defense, especially in view of the barracks of the future, plan to build its activities around these participating organizations in accordance with the British example? It would be the intention of the allies to set a new strategic direction for DIANA every two years, in order to respond to the latest developments. Who will determine this and do we, as a Member State of DIANA, have any influence on this process? The new innovation fund managed by 20 NATO countries will invest EUR 1 billion in 15 years' time. NATO would allow these to come from existing defence budgets or innovation funds. Does the Minister have any idea how much the Belgian contribution to the fund will be, on what dates and where it will get these funds?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u20	Mr Francken, Belgium's possible participation in the Defence Innovation Accelerator for the North Atlantic was discussed between the competent federal authorities and the Regions and the Communities, led by the FPS Foreign Affairs. The final Belgian bid consisted of an accelerator and four test centres: Flanders Make, von Karman Institute, TRAIL and Imec. All proposed organisations were accepted by the allies on 31 March 2022. Belgian participation in these initiatives is of dual importance. On the one hand, these initiatives can stimulate our innovative Belgian companies through funds, cooperation and access to a NATO-wide market in the field of security and defence. On the other hand, this allows Defence to use dual-use technology and applications developed by Belgian companies in the long term. Among other things, the quarters of the future will play a role in the defence effort in terms of support and innovation. The Royal Higher Institute for Defence is developing a management structure. According to the DIANA charter, the board of directors approves the strategic directions. Belgium, like any member, has a seat in this administrative body and can thus influence the decision-making process. DIANA and the NATO Innovation Fund should be seen as complementary to other research, development and innovation initiatives. The aim of the multinational fund is to strengthen the alliance's support by investing extra in technology, with opportunities for defence and security applications. The allocation key for the contribution has yet to be determined in consultation with the regions. In the long term, any contribution from Defence may be borne by the funds subscribed to the DIRS.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u21	Madam Minister, I think that the regions absolutely must be involved in this. The von Karman Institute, Imec and Flanders Make are three flagships in Flanders and I think it is appropriate that you continue to consult with the Flemish Prime Minister, who is also responsible for foreign policy. Last Friday, my party organized a defence day. That was very interesting, because there were also a number of people from the industrial sector. Given that a lot of money will be spent on military development, innovation and investment in the coming years, there should be a major initiative for this in any case. I see you're working on that. I've been following your social media and I've established that you've been to John Cockerill. It is the right time to organise a powwow with a number of governments on the future initiatives for the next ten years. After all, there is a great deal of economic potential. That's very good. If you come out with that, it will be very well received in Flanders. You will be applauding all the banks there for examining the possible future plans. This afternoon, the 2 % resolution will be adopted. If that is settled, you can lead the working party on investment, Madam Secretary. I'm just making a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u22	I submitted my question some time ago and perhaps it is somewhat out of date. But I think it is good to get a current state of affairs on the move from NATO's strategic concept to our eastern borders. There will be a permanent full military presence at the eastern borders of NATO. Soon there will be a NATO summit where the issue will be discussed and where decisions will be taken. I have a number of questions about that. I refer to the written version.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u23	"Je pars du principle que nous allons rester présents ici, avec les Français et les Néerlandais, durant plusieurs années ", our CHOD recorded in L'Echo on 14 April 2022 on the occasion of his visit with our Prime Minister to the troops in Romania under the VJTF. If the assessment of the CHOD is correct, then the VJTF will require more than a temporary rotation of our troops, but a permanent part of our commitment for the coming years, hence my questions. Do you share the opinion of the CHOD? To what extent is that already established and is the Defence Department preparing for a long, permanent commitment in Romania? Do you expect the current schedule of the NRF to be maintained and made available to our troops in the coming years, or does this change the nature of our contribution with a permanent obligation for Defence to provide standard infantry for the defence of Romania? If a longer, possibly even long-term, presence of our Defence in Romania is desirable, what additional investments and adjustments will it require for Defence in terms of facilities, logistics and equipment? What impact would maintaining the same level of ambition for the coming years in Romania have on the further availability of Defence for other operations? Will another position be chosen for our troops outside the current improvised location outside Constanta?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u24	Madam Minister, I had tabled a number of questions which have already been raised, and in the meantime I have received answers from the press and other channels, because my question was also put to me more than a month ago. However, I do have some specific questions about cooperation with the French on the ground. It is not very common for the Belgians and the French in Europe to work together in a particular location. I saw in pictures that there are also vehicles that will be put into service by the Belgian Defence in a number of years' time. Will there be joint exercises with French colleagues and will the French doctrine, which will undoubtedly become more important in the coming years, be taught?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u25	Your question was submitted on 16 May 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u26	Minister, I would like to know how the mission is going. What do our soldiers do on a daily basis? How is collaboration with French alpine hunters going? Have any soldiers been repatriated and why? Have discipline-related problems been reported? If so, what were the sanctions? It is my responsibility that the Belgian military have a ban on the use of their mobile phones, which is not the case with the French. Why? How are contacts with their loved ones then ensured?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u27	Mr President, the exact content of the adjustment of the restraint and defence position at the eastern border of NATO is still part of discussions between allies. As an initial response to Russia's aggression against Ukraine, four additional battle groups were established in Eastern European countries. A permanent development in the east is necessary. The size of the units and the way in which that presence is to be achieved are still being discussed within NATO. For Belgium, as for many other nations, any proposal of permanent development must be weighed against the resources available and the possibility of maintaining this effort permanently. An important part of the crisis is the rapid response capacity of the alliance. Once there is more clarity as to what additional means form part of the new deterrent and defence attitude of the alliance, Belgium will determine its contribution. The Russian attack on Ukraine once again underlines the importance of collective defence as a mission of NATO. However, we must not be blind to the other threats and orders. Belgium believes that NATO's 360 degree focus should be maintained. This view is shared by other partners and Belgium will continue to defend this position within the alliance. During the summer of 2022, our armed forces in Romania will be relieved by French and Dutch soldiers. The entire Belgian detachment will be back in Belgium no later than 15 July. In Romania, France will remain in charge and the Netherlands will supply a company infantry until the spring of 2023. In order to assist France and the Netherlands in improving infrastructure in Cincu, I will propose to the Council of Ministers that a detachment genius be developed on the ground. The possibility of resolving the Netherlands afterwards is being studied. In doing so, account will be taken of the fact that the battle groups may have to stay on the ground for years, as is already the case with the Enhanced Forward Presence. The option of rotating these quotas on a regular basis, as is already the case in the Baltic States, is also under consideration. As a reliable partner, Belgium will also consider a possible contribution in the future, just as we have done in the past for other operational engagements and assignments. Additional logistical support and any necessary investments are always part of the decision-making process for deployment in Romania or anywhere. As a result of years of savings, it is clear that aid capacities are a limiting factor in the planning of each development. The possible place of future engagement in Romania could be Cincu or elsewhere in the country. Here too, the necessary measures will have to be taken to adapt the accommodation, training and framework of NATO troops to a possible long-term stay. Since its development in early March, the Belgian detachment has continued its integration within the French battle group, but also within the multinational Romanian brigade through joint training. Those trainings took place at the residence in Constanta, but also through camp periods spread over Romania, such as in Babadag, Craiova or Prislop. Every exercise happened with the French. For some exercises, Belgian platoons are successfully integrated into the French squadron. The Belgian detachment has been able to familiarize itself with French doctrines and procedures. Currently, our military are housed in collective, air-conditioned tents, where the facilities were gradually brought up to an acceptable level of comfort and privacy. The mission is proceeding as planned. The military deployed in Romania conducted regular training, which also served as a show of force. During the deployment to Romania, there were some returns for disciplinary reasons. In these cases, the military disciplinary procedure was applied on the spot. Based on the results of an initial investigation, the detachment commander opted for a return for disciplinary reasons. This decision is not to be regarded as a punishment in itself, but as a measure of order aimed at ensuring the proper functioning of the detachment on the spot. Based on a cyber threat analysis conducted by A...CS (?), It appeared that there was a real danger associated with the use of SIM cards, both Belgian and local. In order to protect not only our military personnel, but also their families and friends, Defence has provided Belgian military personnel with a controlled and secure network. This method offers more security than conventional mobile networks in the context of operational deployment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u28	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. On the strategic concept you remain on the plain, which makes sense at the moment. We are awaiting the concrete results, which we hope will soon become clear, especially in view of the forthcoming NATO summit at the end of June. You say that a permanent presence of Belgium remains necessary. I note that we continue to keep a broad focus. That seems to me to be rather weedy, given the rapidly evolving geopolitical situation. You have given details of the efforts of the Belgian military in Romania, which is undoubtedly of a high quality. You said that they will be back in Belgium on 15 July. We will have to wait for the further deployment at our eastern borders. You have not yet been able to say anything concrete about a number of matters. We will continue to follow this up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u29	It is good in itself that we are doing this. However, we tend to include the staff who have been operationally deployed for other tasks for which we are supposed to have people at our disposal. However, we have already sent these people out, and we always assume that we will never need them elsewhere. I honestly think that we should ask ourselves whether we should not stop this strategy, and that, if we are to make people available, they will be available immediately. Now it's a little double-up sometimes. This tends to be particularly true for European and NATO obligations. I fear that someday this may lead to a problem. With regard to Romania itself, I believe that there is still a great deal of work to be done if we want to make an effective camp where we want to be present for a long time. That makes sense, and we will have to look at it. The disciplinary return of soldiers, was that about one military, or about several military? That's not entirely clear to me. Several? Drie.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u30	Madam Secretary, thank you for your full reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u31	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I hear that discussions are still under way on what we are going to do in the region. It is important that we be able to be available on this occasion. As far as the disciplinary part is concerned, your answer corresponds well to what had happened to me. I've heard of relatively serious things, including knife fights, which still surprises me. The hierarchy would have reacted quickly and correctly, which reassures me, however. I am also surprised that there are different security rules between the French and Belgians. This raises questions in terms of efficiency, and would require better coordination. I guess it's easier to say than to apply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u32	Mr President, Minister, you were just talking about funds coming from Brussels to Limburg. We are always looking forward to it, but in this case I have to admit that I had my reservations when I read that, for the investments planned in Florennes and Kleine-Brogel, in order to fly the F-35, the initial amount of EUR 270 million, which had already risen to EUR 300 million due to inflation in 2019, was ultimately estimated at EUR 600 million. Madam Minister, you have said in the media that this increase is partly due to the increased demands made by the Americans. Even in that case, however, it is a big increase in the estimate, and I have a lot of questions. There were no answers to the journalists' questions. So I like to put them here. First of all, how the hell is it possible that the budget almost doubled? Secondly, Madam Minister, there must be substantial hairdressing, namely 19 hectares of forest. The plantings with which Mrs Demir sometimes arrives are about much less hectares, while here 19 hectares are being cut. That's significant. DOD's reaction wasn't right. The Department of Defense noted that in principle they didn't even have to compensate for the hairdressing. That is not good communication, even if it is true. So the D.O.D. stated that it wasn't necessary for strategic reasons, but that she would. I'd like to get some insight into that. I read, on the one hand, that it would be about plantings on the shooting grounds in Helchteren on the Pampa Range. On the other hand, it said that the plantings could happen on Kleine-Brogel itself, which is possible, because the infrastructure for the F-16 is quite scattered today and it would now be about much more central infrastructure. So maybe there will be opportunities there as well. Is there a view of the concrete plans and the place where forest compensation will take place? Perhaps I should ask you for that answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u33	Mr President, Minister, some time ago we learned that the cost of infrastructure for the F-35s purchased or ordered would be as high as twice as estimated. At first, EUR 270 million was involved. Including inflation, this amounted to EUR 300 million. Now we are talking about EUR 600 million for the award of a Belgian-Dutch-American consortium and the Belgian dredging company Jan De Nul. It seems to be a serious miscalculation of the initial estimate. It would indeed be an additional expectation from the American partners, which would be higher. In concrete terms, this is a form of modernisation of new infrastructure at the airports of Kleine-Brogel and Florennes. There would be a whole new compound with all the necessary equipment and personnel for the operation of the F-35. These works would require a number of buildings and about 19 hectares of forest to disappear. How do you explain that the first estimate was only half the cost of the new F-35 infrastructure? How will you incorporate these higher costs into your defence budget? How will you cover these additional costs, with new revenues or with savings? What new revenues or savings do you provide for this? We are talking about compensation for the 19 hectares of forest land that would disappear. How is this planned and how much would it cost?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u34	My first question concerns the doubling of the cost estimate. We would like to know more specifically where that doubling came from. My second question concerns the extension of the Small-Brogel military airport. So a new complex is being built to house the new F-35 fighter planes. The current base would no longer be sufficient for the new aircraft. However, we have heard from the press that 19 hectares will be deforested. At present, however, we do not think it is justified to destroy such a large area of forest. Were there sufficient ways to build the new infrastructure without deforesting such an area? Has the possibility of renovating the existing base been explored? Mr De Vuyst's questions were the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u35	When drawing up the 2016 strategic vision, the F-35 infrastructure was allocated a budget of around 300 million. That is far from sufficient today. The higher costs were absorbed within the Defence budget by spreading a number of investments more over time. This will inevitably affect other investment items. When selecting the building area for the F-35 complex, account was taken of the necessary area of the F-35 complex and the requirements for security, safety and continuity of the F-16 operations. In Kleine-Brogel the options were limited and only an implantation in a wooded area was possible. In Florennes the new complex could largely be installed on open ground and less forest cover is needed. The maximum conservation of existing nature reserves within the site was one of the elements evaluated in the award procedure of this infrastructure project. In Kleine-Brogel 19 hectares are deforested. In collaboration with the Agency for Nature and Forest, 22 hectares were reforested in the west of Helchteren's shooting field. Of these, 1 hectare has already been carried out. On average, the Agency for Nature and Forest estimates the cost of this type of work at 10,000 euros per hectare. In Florennes, an area of eight hectares will be deforested. Again, Defence, in coordination with the Department of Nature and Forests (DNF), plans, in compensation, several projects of a nature in the military domain. Coordination with DNF has been initiated to this end. This initiative is part of a broader framework in which Defence works closely with regional partners to improve biodiversity in its areas. As set out in Principle 7 of the STAR Plan, Defence is committed in particular to significantly reducing greenhouse gas emissions from its military activities and facilities, without compromising staff safety or operational efficiency. The modernization and development of Defence infrastructure, including the F-35 infrastructure project, will be accompanied by an ambitious plan to move towards a carbon-neutral and sustainable Defence real estate heritage by 2040. CO2 compensation for operational activities is not foreseen.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u36	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. You say that the budget is being taken up and that this will have consequences in other places, which seems logical to me, but I do not hear any explanations in your reply for doubling that budget. I hope that a decent word has been said about this behind the scenes. I suppose this isn't the way the Defense Department will be making investments over the next few years. Our group does not have any problem with the fact that there is an additional budget for the defence sector, on the contrary, we are on your side, but these funds must be properly invested. Now I have the feeling that these initial estimates have been handled in a very light manner. As far as afforestation is concerned, you say that in Kleine-Brogel it was only possible in wooded areas. That is not difficult, because that is a very large forested area. Kleine-Brogel lies in the green lung of Flanders, so that makes sense in itself. It is good that there are concrete compensation plans in the western part of Helchteren, although they do involve costs. I'll ask for the plans, because I'd like to have a look at them. In any case, it is good that the necessary actions are provided for together with the Agency for Nature and Forest.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u37	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. You say it was a serious understatement. It's obvious. You also say that, as a result, some investments will be spread over time, but you did not say what investments were involved. However, I had asked about the savings on investments that are initialized as a result of that additional price. For that question, I'm still hungry. The forest compensation is clear. You say there are 22 acres compensated on the west side of the shooting field in Helchteren. Some comments can be made on the whole dossier of the F-35. You know that in the past we have always been a cool lover of the choice made, but unfortunately things have not been done. We can also say a few things about the return on that investment, because we see that this effect has been overestimated. This is particularly true of our Flemish economy, because there is also a serious Community distortion in the whole of this dossier. I believe that in future we will see the consequences of this, unfortunately not only for investment in the defence sector, but also for our defence economy in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u38	Thanks for the partial answer. After all, we have not learned much about the first aspect of the 300 million more. You're saying there's been an understatement. But 300 million isn't nothing. In other cases where social services are at stake, that is not so easy. We regret that we have very little explanation here about the 300 million extra needed for infrastructure. We will ask another written question about this. In addition, it is of course a good thing that renovations are being carried out. This is good for both people and the environment. It is also positive that forest will be built. Old forest, however, is much more valuable than a newly planted forest. So we should not go too lightly about the fact that pieces of forest disappear in our beautiful Limburg.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u39	Madam Minister, in a budget request from the Biden administration for 2023, the UK was added to the list of countries where investments are made in infrastructure to store "special weapons" alongside Belgium, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and Turkey. There will therefore be an upgrade of the base RAF Lakenheath to add it back as an active location to the list of locations in Europe where nuclear bombs can be received or stationed if necessary. Preparing Lakenheath is part of a plan to better align the alliance's overall nuclear deterrent with the rapidly deteriorating relations with Moscow. Does the reactivation of sites in the UK have any effect on the Belgian share of the nuclear sharing under NATO? Apparently, the reactivation of Lakenheath would be accompanied by an investment in existing silos and safety systems, which have not been used since 2008. Probably to make them more resistant to, among other things, cruise missiles. Was our country also approached for a further upgrade of the security and defence of the site where weapons can be stored? The budget request refers to the 13-year investment of EUR 384 million under the NATO infrastructure fund to improve security, communication systems and other facilities. Belgium is also explicitly mentioned. How many of these were invested in sites in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u40	NATO's nuclear policy concept is still unchanged. Belgium's share in this concept has therefore not yet been adjusted. It is true that, over the past few years, large investments have been made on different bases. Specifically for Belgium this was about an investment of a small 33 million euros, which was facilitated through the common funding of NATO. Those investments were carried out in order to further ensure safety and to be able to meet the planned activation periods on a permanent basis. Investment for Lakenheath in the United Kingdom should also be seen within this framework, not as reactivation nor as an adaptation to NATO's nuclear posture.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u41	I note that EUR 33 million was invested in the Belgian contribution to NATO's nuclear sharing. That's obvious. For the future, it is not clear whether additional investment will be made. Well, I guess that won't be the case. Maybe I should ask a written question about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u42	Not yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u43	Madam Minister, High Representative Borrell announced on 11 April 2022 that the European training missions in Mali will end in the absence of sufficient guarantees from the ruling junta. Although Borrell denies that Europe will now withdraw completely from the country, the picture seems to have fallen on EUTM Mali, which has been trying for almost two decades to increase the quality and resilience of the Malian armed forces. The termination of the operation also raises questions about the future of the other operation in which our Defence is participating, MINUSMA. Can you confirm that there will be an end to EUTM Mali and that our forces will be withdrawn from Mali? If not, which slopes do you walk to stay in the region? If so, what is the schedule for the full withdrawal from Mali of personnel and equipment still associated with this operation? What future do you see for MINUSMA and the Belgian contribution as Europe throws in the towel? To what extent can the assets of both operations be reallocated to support other NATO and EU operations or training operations? Do you see any opportunity to re-vote it for the benefit of Ukraine, for example in the form of a so-called train the trainers program to familiarize them with western material?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u44	Mr Francken, the EU is following closely the unfavourable political situation, the actions of external parties and the worrying evolution of the security situation in Mali. It will also assess the impact on EUTM Mali and adjust the implementation of the mandate if deemed necessary. The mandate of EUTM Mali runs until 18 May 2024. Until then, the training mission is temporarily suspended and not permanently stopped. Moreover, the current mandate does not provide for the short-term closure of the mission. EUTM Mali is therefore not in itself stopped. The training mission can be resumed at any time. The reason for the temporary suspension has also been clearly explained to the Malian authorities and is linked to the failure to respect the two conditions imposed by the High Representative, namely that EUTM and EUCAP can continue their activities in full respect of the status of mission agreement without interference from third parties, in this case the Wagner group, and that the training can only be given to an army under Malian authority which respects the rules of international law. A mid-term review of EUTM Mali at EU level is foreseen in July 2022. On this basis, the further evolution of the mission will be decided. As regards MINUSMA, the current mandate runs until 29 June 2022 and its implementation is in good agreement with the temporary Malian government. In the meantime, the UN responsible conducts a field analysis in Mali. The report of the analysis will serve as a basis for the negotiations on the extension of the mandate, which should take place by the end of June 2022. From a European security perspective, it is important that the strategic partners and the EU continue their numerous efforts to support stability in Mali and the Sahel. Defence will continue to contribute to these efforts through its continued commitment in Mali and the wider region. The events in the locality of Moura are being analysed. On the basis of the elements we have today, we cannot confirm or invalidate the participation of Malian troops trained by EUTM Mali. As I speak to you, it is too early to take stock of the EUTM Mali mission. From a military point of view, the EUTM aims to improve the structure and functioning of the Malian armed forces. In view of the current context, there is certainly still much work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u45	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You're damned if you do, you're damned if you don't. We have had many exchanges of views on the presence of our troops in Mali. I do that to a lot of people. Even family members, we have had fierce discussions about this. I already told you the anecdote about my sister. I'm not out of it myself, and I think an evaluation is good. We'll have to wait and see. It would be good if, when the evaluation of EUTM and MINUSMA is completed, we look at it here, possibly in Mrs Ponthier's committee. After all, it is necessary to evaluate what it is like on the ground and exactly what it is like with the Wagner Group and with our contribution, to decide what we do best, with a possible change in the assignment and the number of soldiers. I keep struggling with the question. Either way, we will continue to follow up on the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u46	Madam Minister, technological progress in the field of artificial intelligence and applications such as facial recognition is progressing rapidly, but also the digital footprint that people sometimes leave on-line carelessly increases to the extent that remote identification of persons and locations in armed conflicts is becoming easier and more profound. Applied to the conflict in Ukraine, facial algorithms can already be released with the greatest ease today by an army of volunteer computer experts to identify prisoners of war, victims or individual soldiers. If volunteers can achieve such results, public authorities can do the same or much more through more powerful technology. This not only facilitates the ease for our opponents to assess our strengths, but also ensures a rapid pace of increasing exposure of our soldiers and their families to intimidation or blackmail. Madam Secretary, given the photographs you and the Prime Minister took with soldiers on mission, but also the extensive publication of recognizable photos of our soldiers in training or in operation, what are the guidelines that Defence now uses for identifying soldiers? Is there a legal framework for this? Do you consider it necessary to tighten the rules, given the proliferation of facial recognition technology? What agreements are there now with the media about identifying our soldiers? Do you think it's necessary to change this? What is the current regime for military or units to publish material on operations, exercises or Defense infrastructure? Is there a legal framework for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u47	Mr Francken, operations at home or abroad are receiving increasing media attention. These assignments therefore provide an excellent opportunity to illustrate to the general public the reasons for their existence and the added value of Defence. This way the bond with the army nation can be tightened. It is therefore important that external communication is done in a professional, coherent and effective way. The deviation from the representation of military personnel, whether identifiable or not, is part of this. Viewed in a general legal framework, the right to images applies here. The protection of the recognizable representation of a person is enshrined in the Constitution and the Code of Economic Law. In addition, the case law is of great importance for the concrete definition of this right. In principle, it is only possible to capture and use the image of a person if the person concerned has first given permission to do so. Defence should also apply these rules in its media policy and use of media. Additional measures shall apply to operational situations so that the safety of military personnel and the operation can be optimally safeguarded. They are always the result of an in-depth, ex ante analysis, which also seeks coherence with the attitude of our international partners. The evolutions in facial recognition technology and other new technologies are part of the aforementioned ex ante analysis per operation theatre. To date, there is no reason to tighten up current policies. Defence has no permanent and generally applicable agreements with the Belgian and/or international media. Specific measures per operation theatre are systematically explained to the media by Defence. The messages posted by military personnel on social media are subject to freedom of expression, although within the limits laid down by the law. The dissemination of classified and classified information is, of course, punishable. However, there are no rules of law specifically dealing with the use of social media by military personnel. However, there are guidelines for the proper use of social media. For example, the military must exercise strong restraint and leave external communication to the public affairs officer. The military must refrain from judging current operations, military partners and political decisions, and must also show respect for other cultures, religions and values. Furthermore, without the approval of the public affairs officers, it is strictly prohibited to publish personal comments or information on an operation. This can possibly be supplemented by ad hoc restrictions in function of the theatre. The military are always sensitized to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u48	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. We were in Ämari last week. We were welcomed there by very friendly and correct soldiers. I didn't expect anything else either. There were certain rules about the use of images and not filming. That was clearly explained to us, but nothing was really said about bringing the military present into view. I didn't do that myself. I took some pictures and colleagues took pictures when I was in an F-16. There were soldiers in the picture, but I didn't post those photos. I think this would not be a problem in itself, because I see that government members do, but I think that this is becoming more and more a problem, especially in operations. I have heard that there is currently software available that can be downloaded freely anywhere. Anyone who walks by, for example here in the Leuvenseweg, can take a picture, start looking up and know within minutes where he lives, who his family is, whether he has children and where those children go to school. If we can do that, what can't the Chinese or the Russian army do? Mr President, this is really an important point on which I would like to have a very solid debate. That seems very interesting to me. If one knows that, with the war in Ukraine, we, the Western allies, volunteers, including a number of soldiers, via the OSINT network through facial recognition of all Russian military coming in, looking for who they are and where they live, whether they have family or children, then I am convinced that the Russians are doing exactly the same. We shouldn't be naive. Not only do we do that, they can do that and they do that. In view of the state of the art technologies, should we not agree with the government and Parliament to stop portraying military forces?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u49	Madam Minister, on 19 April the governments of Belgium and the Netherlands met in Ghent for the so-called Thalassa Summit. In doing so, arrangements were made for closer cooperation, not only in the areas of defence and security, but also in the areas of sustainability and other cross-border areas. There was talk of enhanced military cooperation and closer European defence cooperation. As you know, we are very fond of that. It was not entirely clear to us whether current commitments were being highlighted or whether new agreements were being made. For example, there was the development and purchase of new frigates - which are ongoing - but also of enlargement to other countries, cooperation on cyber security and hybrid warfare. How will the Defence Department translate these agreed principles into concrete actions? What obligations or investments does the Minister consider to be the result of that agreement for her department? Has the budgetary picture been discussed, as both countries will make additional investments in their defence? Have there also been agreements on increasing funding for joint projects? Has the further development and expansion of our fleet been discussed within the joint Admiralty? Have any concrete commitments been made on this? How will the enhanced cooperation on cyber security be further developed? What specific projects are you thinking of?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u50	Madam Minister, I could summarise the questions I have put on this subject with the question of whether we can get a debrief from the Thalassa Summit. In the final declaration there was an enhanced defence cooperation with the Dutch, with whom we already work fantasticly. That is why I would like a debriefing on the various aspects raised by both the President and myself in our questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, the Belgian and Dutch Governments believe that the new European security situation requires even closer security cooperation, both between our countries and within Europe and with our allies within NATO. As Minister of Defence, I will try to deepen the already existing cooperation between our two countries on the basis of the final declaration of the Thalassa Summit in Ghent. The bilateral cooperation on our navy fleet is an important part of the Belgian-Dutch cooperation, with both the frigat dossier and the file on mine control in progress. This will eventually lead to a modified BeNeSam agreement. In view of the intense cooperation between the Belgian and Dutch Defences, there is almost permanent consultation at various levels, with also an important role for the Benelux consultations. Several working groups will examine how the decisions taken in principle can be further developed. The agreed principles have no direct financial implications for the time being. As far as the F35 is concerned, both Belgium and the Netherlands are currently part of the European F35 User Group. Bilateral cooperation in this area still needs to be developed and will be consistent with the guidelines of this User Group. There is currently no cooperation for unmanned systems, but this is not excluded in the long term. As far as the EU dimension is concerned, both countries have set up a task force to provide industrial partners with a platform for cooperation and to make use of the available European funds. On the basis of EDF funds, Belgium, together with the Netherlands, subscribes to six projects worth 124.7 million euros. In addition, our nations jointly wish to invest 32.6 million in three projects of the European Defence Industrial Development Programme, namely maritime mine control, drone control and ballistic missile detection. In addition, there is also a need to coordinate the joint PESCO projects between the two countries. As regards cyber security, Belgium has already indicated that it wishes to participate in the PESCO project Cyber Rapid Response Teams, of which the Netherlands is already a member. In addition to this concrete participation, we are also observers in other sub-projects such as the Cyber Information Domain Coordination Center and the EU Cyber Academy and Innovation Hub. Within the maritime domain of cybersecurity, there are still some opportunities being explored. The enhanced cooperation on information exchange between Dutch and Belgian defences around the different hybrid domains will be deepened within the various bilateral and multilateral fora. Additional bilateral contacts will be established where necessary. For military mobility, Belgium plays an active role in the PESCO project headed by the Netherlands. There is recurrent consultation between the two Defense Departments on this subject. Only the newly established cooperations will have an impact on the budget. Existing projects are already included in the current Defence budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u52	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your answer and for the overview you gave of the various forms of cooperation with the Netherlands now and in the future. The main advantage of the summit is that the good cooperation that already exists with the Netherlands is not only in the field of Defence, but that is what we are talking about here in concrete terms. All the plans that are being developed in this area will certainly receive our support. You were just talking about an unmanned system, and I have another question about that later. So I'm sure I'll come back to it. For the rest, I hear in particular that there is a joint effort on EU projects. That's interesting because it makes your file firmer to create a larger platform. However, additional reinforcements between the two armies, apart from Europe, certainly deserve further work. If new concrete projects are presented in the near future, they will also receive our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u53	Thank you, Mr President. It's true what you said. Of course, we must work together within Europe, with everyone, but certainly also with our direct partners, of which the Netherlands has been an exemplary example in recent decades. I therefore share your view that we should continue to work on this bilateral cooperation, in a European context, but also simply bilaterally, i.e. between two countries. It is a very good thing that Defence has played such a clear role at the Thalassa Summit. That's what it said in the final statement. It is important that we make use of this kind of official moments, in addition to all the bilateral contacts you have and which our military have, to make that clear once again. You gave a long list, for which I thank you. In my opinion, there are still enormous possibilities in the future, for example in the field of unmanned systems. The Netherlands also wants to arm drones. I think there's a possibility there too. I refer to the next question on the agenda. We have purchased a number of unmanned systems together with the Dutch, using their government contracts. Together with the Luxembourgers we bought two of these. The programme law will undoubtedly pay a great deal of attention to future helicopters. There, together with the Netherlands, we can see what is being used and what can be purchased, then train together, buy together simulators and so on. There are many new opportunities to strengthen cooperation. One final point, Madam Secretary. In our two questions we talk about Belgium and the Netherlands, while you talk about the Benelux spontaneously. I welcome that. Benelux cooperation, including the Luxembourgers, must be at the heart of any future cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u54	Madam Secretary, the unmanned systems have just been briefly discussed. On February 20, 2021, in temporal non-suspecto, the answer to a question from me was: "A possible armament of the aircraft is not at issue now and was also not investigated by the Defense Department." I asked you then if you have any plans to arm drones. In the meantime, of course, the context has changed tremendously. We live in another world in a manner of speaking. We also see the effects of drones and armed drones in a conflict, as in Ukraine today. You said just now that cooperation with the Netherlands in the framework of unmanned systems is certainly not excluded. In the Netherlands, on 21 April 2022, the House of Representatives approved a motion to arm their new MQ-9 Reaper drones. There, the moving insight has shown that this makes sense. The Reaper MQ-9B SkyGuardian will be operational with us from 2023. In the strategic vision of Minister Vandeput, the option was left open to use and use. The payload provides the possibility to arm those systems. Do you still believe that any weapons should not be investigated? Has there been an understanding of this in the government? Is it true that the option was explicitly excluded within the government as part of the update of the strategic vision? How is this exclusion translated in concrete terms? The Netherlands is our partner country for tactical drones, the United Kingdom is for our MALE's. Both opt for armament. Do you think it is possible that our refusal to use it will put pressure on the development of future partnerships? Does the government wish to expand its SkyGuardians purchase under the STAR plan? If so, how many systems and by what date? Which slopes do you walk in order to provide our Defence in your STAR plan with the necessary C-UAS, counter the increased use of drones and provide better protection for our units?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u55	The MALE's MQ-9B SkyGuardian meet an important capability gap at European level in terms of ISR of intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance. SkyGuardians are mainly imaging and exploration systems. Our contribution to this capacity therefore represents an important capacity-building of European military capability. Our current agreements with the Netherlands and the United Kingdom on Unmanned Aerial Systems are intended to work together in the training and training of our crews through exchanges and joint exercises. Whether or not to use weapons does not affect those collaborations. The STAR plan provides for the purchase of an additional SkyGuardian system by 2029, which in practice means a control station and two aircraft. This purchase will take the SkyGuardian fleet to three checkpoints and six devices. The countermeasures against larger drones are part of both the capacity short range air defense and, on the other hand, the capacity surface-to-air missiles short range and long range. Larger drones can also be intercepted using Defensive Counter Air resources, such as F-16s. In order to provide an appropriate response to the threat of small drones, the use of specific Counter Unmanned Aerial Systems is necessary. Defence currently has only a very limited number of such systems. Through the STAR plan and the draft law amending the military programming law, we plan to fill those gaps.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u56	Madam Secretary, it is not very clear to me. Have you now replied that this armament will be investigated or not, or what has been included in the STAR plan? I may have missed your answer, but I think I followed it well. It is not entirely clear to me what your position and that of the government is on whether or not to arm...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u57	I've already answered. That was no.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u58	And why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u59	We're not going to have a discussion here. You're asking me a question, I've already answered you twice about that. To the government it was decided at this stage (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u60	The government therefore remains of the opinion that these devices should not be armed and that this should not be investigated. Her position has still not changed. That will be wiped out and nothing will happen to it. That's a huge problem, isn't it? Besides, I don't see why I can't. Apparently, this government is giving in under pressure from the green colleagues. There are ethical reasons that I do not understand at all. If you confirm that this is the position of this government, then I must say that this government is still living on another planet. When one sees what is going on in the world, when one sees what plans our neighbouring countries are developing, I think that is a punishment and I think that some members of the government should ask themselves questions about their input. I know that, for example, Mr Pillen, who is not a member of the government, but of Parliament, has always been a very strong party to arming these devices. If it turns out that there is nothing to it, that this is not the case, that this is not being examined, that the government has not changed its position on this matter, not even in the context of the reworked Strategic Vision and the military programming law, then I am asking myself very serious questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u61	Mr Buysrogge, you mentioned me. I will do as Mr Francken always does. I am not part of the government, but I am part of Parliament. I suggest that we wait for the presentation of the Minister of the STAR plan next week, or within two weeks. I think there will then be a lot of clarity, because now we are discussing without texts and without any basis. I think it is more interesting to have that debate when the texts are on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u62	We should not, indeed, continue to discuss this issue in the context of a round of questions. We should not do that if we do not yet have the texts, but I do know what the Minister has said here today, and I find that extremely striking.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u63	Madam Secretary, I have often asked for a state of affairs in the past. We know that the city of Geraardsbergen submitted a concrete application on 16 March 2022 to build the new Quarter North under the concept of 'barracks of the future'. Everyone knows the context, so I will not outline it further. There really is a need for a barracks in East Flanders. We heard that the decision would fall at the end of April or early May on which East Flemish city or municipality it would be. The choice for Quarter South in Charleroi has been made some time ago. How many and which East Flemish cities applied? How many municipalities or cities has Defense itself approached? How many candidate host cities does Defense retain for the final round? When does the Minister expect to be able to take a concrete decision on this matter? Can the Minister indicate the size of the domain that Defense hopes to find for the new quarter? How many applications do they meet? I also heard at one point that maybe two smaller bases would be chosen instead of one big one. I would have liked to have some clarification on that, too. Can the Minister indicate how she assesses the opening up of the various potential sites such as Geraardsbergen? Do these respond to the demands of the Defense Department? How does the Minister assess the possibilities of attracting private and industrial partners, or other security services on this site? What are the possibilities in this respect for Geraardsbergen? Finally, how is the development of Quarter South going? You do not have to go into this in too detail. There is another question about this at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u64	Madam Minister, my question dates back a few weeks ago, so that some things are out of date. My colleague has also outlined the situation sufficiently. I have a few specific questions. I understand the deadline for candidacy has already expired. Which municipalities have applied? What are the assessment criteria for assigning the new quarter to a municipality? How are you going to work on this in concrete terms? When can we expect a decision on the 15-minute implantation? Does the decision include prior consultation with local authorities and local residents? When do you expect the 15 minutes in Charleroi to be operational? When do you expect the 15 minutes in East Flanders to be operational?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u65	Madam Secretary, as part of the 'quarter of the future', you announced the opening of two new barracks, one in East Flanders and one in Hainaut. The city of Geraardsbergen has proposed to build a new East Flemish barracks on the Godsbergkouter in the municipality of Schendelbeke. There is also a firing range that would be built next to it, but under that field gas pipes would run. Can you tell us what the situation is? What else does the allocation procedure look like? Are the residents involved in this? Has the concrete stop of the Flemish government been taken into account? Have any other municipalities applied? Has any consideration been given to the nuisance that such a barracks and gun range could bring? Isn't there a risk that the gas lines will be hit during the firing exercises?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, for the prospect of the quarter of the future, Noord has worked with the Provincial Development Society of East Flanders. Further contacts with Aalst and Aalter were developed following its analysis and taking into account the regional distribution to the existing quarters of Defence. The city of Aalter has filed a file. The city of Aalst was initially interested, but the mayor later declared that he had no place for an army barracks in the press. Following communication on the project and on the basis of the local importance of a military presence in the region, the city of Geraardsbergen submitted a file. The military prospection concludes that the files presented by Aalter and Geraardsbergen meet the basic requirements of the concept for the quarter of the future. The basic requirements considered by the Defence Department to be essential to consider the site as compliant are a minimum area of 2,530 hectares for the accommodation of the quarter, the availability of a practice area of at least 20 hectares near the quarter, the accessibility for heavy vehicles with a minimal impact on other users and neighbours and the possibility to install a shooting range. In addition to the basic requirements, the acquisition potential, location and accessibility, the general suitability for military activities, the synergy potential, the cost of acquiring the site, the risk of implementation and the relationship between Defence and the neighbourhood will be assessed on the basis of the stated objective of the 15-minute concept of the future. In order to enable good training and the practicability of deployable military forces, Defence needs a firing position in the immediate vicinity of the quarter of the future. Defence constantly strives for a living balance between the rest of the residents and the need to practice and train, for example. An impact study will determine the most suitable location for the shooting mode. Of course, this takes into account all the important elements, first and foremost security and good neighbourly relations, and the applicable rules and security rules are respected. On the basis of the available data, including access and potential partners, it can be argued that a choice of location for the quarter of the future in the province of East Flanders could be the subject of a government decision in the coming weeks. If the government were to decide to select Geraardsbergen's candidacy, the local government would have to initiate a spatial re-use procedure, drawing up a spatial implementation plan, to re-appoint the agricultural area to military territory. During that procedure, all bodies which are required to give an opinion under an authorisation shall be involved. Issues relating to traffic, the environment and noise shall be taken into account during that procedure. Defence is familiar with the safety guidelines for high-pressure gas pipelines and can respect them when operating a training area. Consequently, the presence of a natural gas pipeline does not prevent the establishment and use of the training area. The development of the quarter of the future South in Charleroi, already approved by the Council of Ministers on 23 July 2021, is at the stage of preparation of infrastructure procurement and preparation of cooperation agreements with local partners. For the financing of the quarters of the future, the government has committed more than EUR 100 million under the federal relay plan, as I mentioned in my reply of 28 April 2022. No further decisions have yet been taken. I stress that for the first time in decades, defence will build new quarters under my impulse and, moreover, with unseen openness towards society. In this way, Defense will be able to anchor itself in society at new locations. The quarter of the future South in Charleroi will be gradually operationalized in the second half of this decade. For the quarter of the future North, a plan will be drawn up as soon as the government has taken a decision. The quarter of an hour of the future is a groundbreaking concept that undoubtedly benefits Defence and the various local partners. I therefore hope that my enthusiasm will be shared by the regional and local authorities in the north and south.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u67	At the moment there are two other nominations: Aalter and Geraardsbergen. Both are eligible on the basis of the requirements laid down by the Defense Department. You'll make a decision within a few weeks. First of all, time is ticking. There has to be a decision soon. I conclude from your explanation that it is wrong to work on two smaller bases instead of one larger base. The quarter of the future South in Charleroi has been ahead for a year. This is a very good way of working on it. I hope that everyone is aware of the need to continue working on the 15 minutes of the future North in East Flanders. Secondly, I see the concept of the quarter of an hour of the future as an opportunity to work well with the academic world, with a number of innovative players, with industry, actually with the whole social field. That is a little under-exposed at the moment in your reply. Hopefully that will be given more attention in the future, because that is what Defence needs to be able to work on.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u68	Based on the basic requirements, two sites are still eligible. The decision will be made in the coming weeks. So there's an impact study to be done first. There is certainly a need for this, because there is a great deal of concern among the population. Hopefully that impact study will also be thoroughly made. Such a study will take some time, while the decision will be taken in a few weeks' time. Hopefully, local government, citizens, residents and land owners will also be consulted. There is, of course, great concern among farmers that they would lose their land. That's their source of income. Their future must not be taken away. Hopefully the study will be conducted thoroughly and properly. Time's running out. A balance needs to be struck between rapid clarity and the removal of anxiety, but also taking into account the concerns of the neighbourhood. When Geraardsbergen is chosen, another RUP has to be made up. As a local mandator, I know it takes at least one to two years to complete the procedure for an RUP. That also has an impact on the choice that is made. I'm looking forward to how this is gonna work out. The impact study should be conducted thoroughly, in consultation with all stakeholders. This cannot be decided over their heads. If people are affected, they must be compensated properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u69	The knot has not yet been cut which of the two sites it becomes. Especially in Geraardsbergen there is a lot of discontent and concern of the neighborhood. In the meantime, a neighbourhood committee has already been set up because there are a lot of questions. It's about valuable farmland right next to a nature reserve. Hopefully, time will be taken to get the neighborhood involved before the knot is cut. Alternative solutions for this project also need to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u70	Monsieur Dallemagne has been excused.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u71	Madam Minister, I wish to return to the presence of American nuclear bombs on our territory. As we know, a programme to modernize these weapons has been under way since 2012. The United States is making a change in its nuclear deterrence strategy so that, by 2030, new and modernized nuclear weapons will be delivered to several European NATO countries, including Belgium. A new model of B-61 gravitational bombs should therefore be delivered to our territory. How will these new nuclear weapons be transported to our territory? What specific security measures will be taken to limit the risk of an overflight of our territory by this type of bomb? Given the recent international context, is there a willingness to accelerate this programme for the modernization of nuclear weapons? Are there any contacts with the US government in this direction? Could the stockpiling of these new nuclear weapons make Belgium a priority in the event of a nuclear attack? How is this risk integrated into our strategic vision and what specific steps are being taken to prepare us for this eventuality?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u72	The Belgian delegation was not invited to the seminar held in camera by the think tank called the Advanced Nuclear Weapons Alliance Deterrence Center (ANWA DC). The review of the American posture 2022 was transmitted to Congress at the end of March, but has not yet been officially published. On the basis of several bilateral contacts, however, it can be inferred that there will be no impact, a priori, on Belgium, on our continent or on NATO. In fact, both NATO and Russia to some extent exercise restraint in order to prevent any risk of escalation. The United States has thus postponed its planned testing of its intercontinental ballistic missile system. Belgium supports NATO's strategic concept of both conventional and nuclear deterrence. At the same time, Belgium remains in favour of a world without nuclear weapons and actively participates in the international monitoring system.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u73	Madam Minister, I think you have forgotten the part on nuclear weapons in Belgium. But I guess you haven't really forgotten, and I'm gonna pretend there was an answer. As the Conference of States Parties to the TIAN (Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons) opens next week in Vienna, it is important to have this debate in our country. If indeed, as you know, Belgium and this government consider the non-proliferation treaty as the cornerstone of nuclear disarmament, at the same time we know, because it is a secret of politic, that the presence of nuclear bombs on our territory violates the same treaty. It is more than time to move on to an additional step that is that of prohibition, obviously in a multilateral and progressive framework, but nevertheless with voluntarism and responsibility. I believe that the current situation in Europe demonstrates how nuclear deterrence is more a matter of faith than a tangible reality. It is based on the principle of logical reasoning on the part of the leaders, but it cannot cope with the instability of an autocratic or even democratically elected leader. We have been living on a line for 80 years and in view of the many incidents and accidents that have been recorded all this time, we can say that we owe in large part to the chance that we have not yet had a nuclear war, as I have just reminded the Prime Minister in the Committee on External Relations. I therefore believe that the modernization of nuclear bombs in Kleine-Brogel is not in the right direction. It is not in the direction of disarmament, on the contrary, since it may facilitate the use of these weapons with all the disastrous consequences that this would entail. I find this very worrying.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u74	Madam Secretary, we are all eagerly looking forward to your military programming law. I have been told that the draft has been submitted to Parliament, but we still do not have it at our disposal. I also understand that you want to explain this to our committee next week. In the absence of the document, I felt obliged to ask a whole series of questions in order to find out something. I have several questions about the Army, the Air Force, the Navy, the medical component and the NH-90. We are told in the press that a budget of just over 11 billion would be released. The Military Programming Act should enter into force on 1 January 2023. There would be 29,100 employees, soldiers and civilians. How does that relate to the different components? What are the different investments? What is the share of the Army, the Air Force, the Navy and the medical component? What is the fate of the NH90? For the specific questions, I refer to their written version.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u75	Madam Minister, in the meantime, almost everyone has had access to the STAR plan in one way or another and to the draft programming law that results from it, everyone, except the representatives of the people, except the members of the Defence Commission. I deeply regret that. That is why we are indeed obliged to ask questions about this, in the hope that you will be able to shed some light on the new military programming law. Among other things, we were able to read a clear overview in the media of all expenditure per component, including a breakdown of the specific investments. The total envelope would be 11.73 billion, of which - if we can believe the media - 6.56 billion goes to the land component and 2.79 billion to the air component. The Navy component has to be far less than half a billion. Finally, 1.3 billion would go to Cyber and Command. Can you account for the breakdown of expenditure to the various components? What will the 1.3 billion be spent on the cyber component? Is this about a higher remuneration to remain competitive with the private IT sector for those profiles and to recruit additional staff? France is the main focus of investment in the land component. Could you give me more explanation? Military personnel in general fear that there is some sort of balancing exercise going on with regard to investment in relation to France, to compensate for the F-35 dossier, but I will certainly not make any preliminaries. There has been a lot to do about helicopter capacity. Germany and the Netherlands would choose the Chinook helicopter. Will that also be the case for Belgium? What do you think of Norway's decision last week to ask for a total refund on the NH-90 and to stop cooperation? EUR 578 million would be allocated to the Special Operations Regiment. How is that choice determined and how do you justify that choice? Can you also give a ruling on the F-35s and the unmanned drones that should be armed in principle? Ballistic missile defence is also invested. Is there any clarity on the type of missile shield? What type of anti-aircraft guns will be purchased? How do you justify that choice? Is EUR 150 million enough for the military system for the intended 29,100 defence personnel?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u76	Unfortunately, some elements of the STAR plan have recently been leaked to the press. However, I would like to emphasise that not all leaked elements are correct and are included in the STAR plan that I will present in committee on 21 June, together with the legislative proposal amending the law of 23 May 2017 on the military programming of investments for the period 2016-2030. I will therefore give you a very detailed answer next Tuesday. In any case, it is my aim to make rapid progress on these essential issues, in the interests of the men and women of defence, of society in general and of the security of all of us. Of course, I didn't leak documents. Besides, if you're questioning journalists, you'll know that I never wanted to answer in detail. The presentation of the STAR Plan that was communicated to them is the same as the one that was presented to you in committee. The details that appeared in the press, more or less accurately – since not all of the computers that are included in the press are, as I have just said – certainly do not come from home.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u77	You have not actually answered any of my questions. I had tabled a whole series of questions and referred to them in the hope of getting an answer to them. All you're saying is that I get information from the press and I don't have to believe everything that's written in the press and that it's the fault of leaks. Well, that's what we're gonna have to do. We have not yet received the draft military programming law. This is not clear to me either. An updated strategic vision is linked to the Military Programming Act. Is it part of the draft military programming law or is it a separate document? I assume, unless I am mistaken, that the vision is set out in a separate document. So it is not presented as a draft, but we have to include it in order to be able to read the draft. I invite you, Madam Minister, to also present the document in itself, once the draft military programming law is at our disposal and I assume that will be submitted to us within this and a few hours or days. I hope that you will give us the commitment that we will indeed have updated vision or the comprehensive version of the STAR plan. For the rest, we will have to deal with the apparently incorrect information. I can guarantee you one thing: the leak is not from here. We have nothing at our disposal. So it's good to look into your own deer. I don't mean in your own heart, but in that of your Vivivaldi government. I think you should look for the leak there, because I certainly do not feel appealed to.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u78	As far as the latter is concerned, I can fully endorse it. The leak doesn't come from the National Defense Commission at all. After all, our committee is once again being sent with a bunch of shit. We've been embarrassed for the past few months, too. You go far and wide on company visits. Just yesterday, I read your tweet informing entrepreneurs about the content of your STAR plan so that they can learn about possible economic returns. The first word on the substance has not yet been said in our committee. You accuse the questioners of being inspired by the media. But where else would we get the inspiration? As I said, almost everyone has already been given access; I am sure that even some of my fellow committee members who are here have been given access. I find that inappropriate for a Defence Minister with a policy area that deserves as much attention and respect as defence. We look forward to your explanation next Tuesday, if we can believe you. It's about time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u79	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dallemagne's 55027877C has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u80	Madam Secretary, in 2018, there was a test case with leasing bikes at the Department of Defense. At the time, this was welcomed very positively by the defence staff, but it was never introduced. Is the possibility of leasing an e-bike or speed pedal included in the POP plan? If not, do you intend to record this after all?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u81	The extralegal bicycle leasing of e-bikes was launched as a pilot project in 2019 in the 11th Battalion Genie in Castle. This unit was specifically chosen to counter the foreseeable future traffic problems arising from the start-up of the Oosterweel connection. It was the ambition to turn the project, depending on the pilot results, into an extra-legal advantage for all Defence personnel. Unfortunately, however, this bicycle-leasing project was not a success because it was too expensive for the interested parties. The leasing costs cannot be offset by gross wages. Legal adjustments are needed to allow the deduction of leasing from gross wages. The possibility to include the leasing of an e-bike or a speed pedelec in the People Our Priority section of the STAR plan remains for study by the Defense Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u82	Madam Minister, I am glad that this is still being considered. Especially with the rise in fuel prices, it may well be that there is more interest in the staff now than there was a few years ago. I encourage you to take this back and allow the leasing of a bike back for the people of Defense. This is a question from on-site.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u83	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Ducarme (Commission); Mr Ducarme; Mr Ducarme; Mr Ducarme; Mr Ducarme; Mr Ducarme; Mr Ducarme; Mr The questions put by Mrs Jadin Notenboom 55028183, 55028185, 55028187 and 55028426 are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament 55028244 by Mr Verduyckt and Mr Verduyckt, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u84	Madam Secretary, I have submitted two questions about the Military Hospital. One question is about the current situation, the other is about the future perspective. The Minister of Health indicated that he would engage with the Military Hospital in order to receive war victims from Ukraine. You indicated earlier that only a very limited number of war victims can be received by the Defense Department in the Military Hospital, and only in case of burns. I wonder if you've been talking to the Minister of Health in the meantime. What was the outcome of that? Will more beds be released for war victims? What about the meetings with the Brugmann Hospital, which now occupies two floors of the Military Hospital? Have any arrangements been made to evacuate these departments when necessary, as at present? What is your view on the need for specific military medical expertise? How is this military medical expertise guaranteed in the future? What expertise is there at the moment and what does the situation look like if we look three years further? What about the active substances for the Medical Component at the moment? After all, it has come to my attention that there would be no Wi-Fi available in the Military Hospital. Then I have some questions about the transformation to a medical hub. We have also read and heard about this. One would like to transform the Military Hospital into a medical hub, with the potential to act as a disaster hospital. If the Military Hospital were to act as a emergency hospital, it seems logical to me that there has also been consultation with other public services, with Home Affairs, with Health. Is that so? When did this meeting take place? What appointments were made there? Will the Military Hospital be part of and continue to be part of a hospital network? How do you see the future of the burn center? Apparently there is also protest from the hospital itself against the current plans. Have you entered into any dialogue with the hospital staff? How will the funding of this new hub be guaranteed? How many resources are needed? Are these budgeted? Is there both civilian and military funding? Is there any prospect of a European track in terms of cooperation and funding? How many men would it take to man the new hospital concept? Can you clarify how many men of each expertise are needed? Are they currently available?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u85	Mr President, during this period my department is in weekly contact with the Public Health Office regarding the reception of Ukrainian war victims. There is currently no additional need for hospital beds within the Military Hospital in this context by the FPS Public Health. The Brugmann University Nursing Centre, which uses the infrastructure of the Military Hospital, is fully autonomous and is responsible for the management and medical management of its patients. We cannot simply suspend the agreement with Brugmann. However, the implementation of the protocol agreement is based on a concession. Like any defence concession, she's always reclaimable depending on the needs of the Defense Department. Today there's no need to evacuate this department. The Medical Component, like the other components, needs to be strengthened and rebuilt. Therefore, the STAR Plan provides resources for the continuity of the services of the Military Hospital pending the Medical Hub 2030. The installation of wifi within 15 minutes of Queen Astrid is under way. All meeting rooms and cafeterias are already equipped with Wi-Fi. Additional installations are still planned. The Medical Hub 2030 took into account a crisis capacity, Military Measure and Capacity that can be offered in the context of help to the nation. The Medical Hub 2030 project therefore includes a crisis capacity component. The crisis capacity is the sum of the various services that can intervene in a crisis. Article 14.7 of the co-ordinated law on hospitals and other care facilities of 10 July 2008 allows the Military Hospital to be part of the locoregional clinical hospital network and to be used for civilian patients in niche domains as a reference point. A reference point is defined as a hospital offering a supraregional care assignment. In particular, the Military Hospital could function as a reference point for the following medical specializations: burn patients and patients for the hyperbaric oxygen tanks. So the burn center will continue to be part of the medical hub. In order to provide the necessary guarantees for increased medical support by on-site specialists, intensive cooperation with civil partners will be developed. All relevant services of the Military Hospital were actively involved in the elaboration of the 2030 Vision and in expressing their future needs. A consultation on the medical hub is currently ongoing. The purpose of this contract is, inter alia, to provide an accurate and well-founded estimate. The final report of the study bureau should provide advice, including the possible financing methods of the project, including European funding. As far as the medical hub is concerned, there is, of course, a need for specific military medical expertise. In recent years, many candidate doctors are in training who are either already engaged in specialization or later in their training will have the opportunity to follow the specialisation deemed necessary by the Defence Department. The total number required for the functioning of the medical hub within the current concept is estimated at about 800 full-time equivalents, including 114 doctors with various specializations and 66 paramedics. They will, of course, be supplemented by nurses, ambulances, and administrative technical staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u86	Madam Secretary, a few reservations. The expertise on war injuries is indeed present with the medical component. I regret that it cannot be used now, because it is a missed opportunity to refresh that expertise. The question also came from the academic hospitals, in order to free up capacity and take care of one's own business. In fact, the medical component of the Defense Department has also improved during the covid crisis, when hospitals and residential care centres had a hard time. Conversely, I believe that they should first of all be responsible for war injuries and that we should not look at civilian hospitals until full capacity has been achieved. I also wonder why there are plans to turn it into a disaster centre if only burns are targeted now. To what extent are the plans for the employability of the medical component feasible and realistic over the next few years? I heard you confirm that there are problems with access to Wi-Fi, which is still under construction. At this time, that seems very strange to me. I also hear it's hard for medical personnel to even get a laptop. If these basic needs cannot be met, how do you intend to transform it into a disaster centre in the short term? If I understand correctly, there has also been no consultation with, for example, Home Affairs and Health. That's special, too. You said that the staff were involved in developing the 2030 Vision. I therefore assume that it is ready and can be submitted to the committee as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u87	Madam Minister, in view of the large investments that many European countries are planning, the European Union is moving its focus towards greater cooperation in development and procurement and wishes to take the lead in this. However, there is also an intergovernmental organisation active in this area in Europe, which we have been part of since 2003, namely the Organisation for Joint Armament Cooperation or OCCAR. The aim of the OCCAR is to increase cooperation between six Member States in the field of armaments in order to improve efficiency and reduce costs. However, Belgium rarely makes use of the opportunities offered by the partnership. The OCCAR works with the principle of global balance, looking not at the economic return per program but at the whole. How do you evaluate the collaboration for Belgium? How does the cost share relate to the work share? Is the balance in balance? How do you propose to correct any imbalances? Under the Strategic Vision, the emphasis was on being able to speed up our forces in a COTS way, commercial off-the-shelf. Under the STAR plan, there would be a non-significant part of cooperation with industry and an increase in social return. What role do you see for the OCCAR? In which projects do you want to implement this? Currently, involvement is limited to cooperation around the VBAE. Are you currently talking to the OCCAR or the other Member States about possible participation in other projects? Do you think that the Belgian defence industry is well positioned to sign in on OCCAR projects or to be involved in compensation? What is the government's current strategy for promoting our businesses and what criteria does it use? What reform plans are you planning to develop your STAR plan in a more concrete way?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u88	Mr Buysrogge, on the basis of the annual reporting by OCCAR-EA, the balance sheet is discussed at all meetings of the OCCAR governing bodies. In recent years, actions have been initiated to balance the balance sheet for Belgium, which is currently negative. In concrete terms, in cooperation with the FPS Economy, a list of companies and their specific specialisation domain was drawn up and transferred to OCCAR-EA and the five other OCCAR Member States. In the case of new programmes or new phases within ongoing programmes where open competition is possible, these Belgian firms should be given the opportunity to submit a tender, even if the Belgian Defence Department does not participate in that specific programme. Work is also under way to improve transparency in the procurement strategy, including through a timely announcement of possible new markets. Finally, Defence has drawn up a policy paper to be approved by OCCAR-EA and the five other Member States, which confirms all these principles and complements the principles enshrined in the OCCAR Convention. The preparation of the proposal for the new military programming law has not yet been decided by which channel this material will be acquired. The choice for the purchasing agency is only made at a later stage, after the military prospect of the equipment to be purchased. The Belgian Defence is in daily contact with the Belgian defence industry and exchanges as much information as possible. The Belgian Defence also helps to promote the Belgian industry, for example by having events organised in collaboration with OCCAR-EA. This draft law, which we will soon be discussing in committee, focuses on three key areas: the growth and revaluation of our staff, the programming of investments in main equipment and the strengthening of the technological and industrial base in the field of security and defence. For the latter domain, in consultation with the other relevant actors, Defence will achieve the development, implementation and monitoring of a DIRS. The DIRS helps to ensure that investments in the defence domain for capacity development or research and development are made to society in the form of knowledge, technology and employment, in line with current national and European legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic816x.u89	Madam Secretary, in the past, a number of procurement procedures in the defence sector have not gone too purely. I'm still using that to express myself with caution. There's still some kind of trauma in the case of the Defense Department. At some point, however, we must be able to go beyond that. We really need to work towards an active partnership between defence and our industry. We have a lot of assets, there is a lot of potential. The traumatic experiences of the past are not sufficiently removed. I call for active cooperation. There is, of course, also a role for industry itself. It's not all the responsibility of the Defense Department. You just confirmed that there is a negative balance at the moment. We must make that assessment positive so that our industry can benefit from the various investments that are coming in the years to come, whether it is in the framework of OCCAR or something else, from our own defence, but also from neighbouring countries and partner countries, because we are talking about European cooperation. I am really in favour of achieving that close partnership effectively.
