ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues. Today we have the progress report by the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, who is also Minister for Foreign Trade, on trade policy and trade agreements on the programme. During the previous legislature it was agreed that there would be a report on this matter. You have therefore received the report of 1 July 2022. If I understand correctly, the Minister will give an introduction to this report. I am happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u2	Madam President, first of all, I apologize for my delay. The Kern meeting was somewhat prolonged. Ladies and gentlemen, I look forward to sharing with you today on the subject of European trade policy and, in particular, on the main developments in this area since the progress report of 2021. The least we can say is that the past year has been a year of foreign policy turmoil, including in its trade aspect, which has undergone a very sensitive development mainly due to the war in Ukraine. The Russian aggression is leading to major disruptions in world trade, including an increase in cereal prices, in the context of Russia's blockade of Ukrainian seaports, shortages of raw materials, an increase in inflation and sanctions on Russian commodities such as oil, gas and fertilizers. The strong economic recovery that had begun as a result of the stabilization of the covid pandemic has therefore quickly given way to a slowdown in the growth of international trade and the economy, as well as the emergence of new protectionist measures around the world. In the face of Russia's war of aggression against Ukraine, the European Union had to react, providing humanitarian aid, of course, but also supporting Ukraine in its economic, military, social and financial resilience. The decision taken in this context to lift tariffs on products imported from Ukraine for one year is a trade gesture that I welcome, as is the initiative of the solidarity channels to try to extract the approximately 20 million tonnes of cereals blocked in Ukrainian ports by the Russian blockade. This blockage has direct consequences for global food security, particularly in Africa, where a serious crisis is set to occur. This war accentuates more than ever the need, if not the urgency, for the European Union to accelerate its emancipation and achieve its objective of open strategic autonomy in order to prove itself able, tomorrow, to carry out its own political choices independently. To this end, it must strengthen its internal market, become less dependent and more assertive, and it must be respected while maintaining its DNA based mainly on multilateralism and openness. This is a major challenge. It is obviously not a question of falling into protectionism, but rather of consolidating this model of economic openness which has enabled the European Union to achieve an unrivalled level of prosperity and equity, making it more competitive. We also need to develop our capacity to project this model around the world and defend it with conviction. In the commercial sphere, we must focus on diversifying our sources of supply. This has become evident, particularly in the energy field. But it is also necessary to urgently target new markets for our exports and for the revival of our economy. The announcement last week of the finalization of the Free Trade Agreement with New Zealand is excellent news in this context. Other agreements, with Mexico, Chile or Australia, are also close to a conclusion, and that is positive. While the Russian invasion of Ukraine has taken full attention and seriously disrupted the economic situation, the past year has not been without some real progress in trade. I would like to highlight two of them in particular. First, at the multilateral level, it is gratifying to see that the twelfth Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organization (WTO) has produced limited but real results. Among the most notable are the adoption of the trade and health text, as well as its intellectual property component, which is the WTO's response to the pandemic. Secondly, I will mention a very important statement by WTO members on food security, a historic agreement on combating subsidies that lead to overfishing, which directly contributes to the Sustainable Development Goals, or the extension of the moratorium on electronic transactions. This series of agreements proves that the WTO, which has been suffering from paralysis for many years, is still capable of producing important multilateral agreements. These encouraging results must prompt us to continue investing in the multilateral trading system. It's obvious and necessary. However, they do not erase the difficulties that remain. The process of reaching these various agreements has not been easy and the main functions of the WTO remain largely paralysed. An ambitious reform of the WTO is therefore more necessary than ever. This reform should cover these three main functions: the negotiation of multilateral agreements, the settlement of disputes and the monitoring of Member States' policies. The WTO's commitment at the CM12 is positive in this regard. The European Union must put its full political weight in order to ensure a genuine follow-up to this issue, for which we must show leadership. Secondly, I would like to stress the importance of the presentation, two weeks ago, of the Commission communication on trade and sustainable development. This is a major step taken by the Commission and largely reflects the concerns expressed for years by the European Parliament and some Member States, such as Belgium, that European trade policy should place sustainability more firmly in its trade agreements around the world. This is also a priority for our government. Free trade agreements have largely proven their added value in terms of economic opportunities for our businesses and SMEs. They also provide a political lever to engage with our partners and create a space for work and dialogue to encourage them to adopt more climate- and environmental-friendly practices and to respect human rights and labour rights. It is important to be able to make the best use of this lever, to maximize it intelligently because, alone, we will not ensure sustainability. With this revision of the sustainable development chapters of the trade agreements, the European Union is developing an ambitious, forward-looking strategy that largely meets Belgian expectations. We must rejoice at that. The important thing will now be to ensure that it is properly implemented in future agreements. Indeed, in times of geopolitical uncertainty, it is more important than ever that the European Union continue to forge alliances and remain a leading trading partner. Our ability to conclude and ratify bilateral trade agreements is therefore paramount in this context. The adoption of this strategy for fairer and more lasting agreements is also to be seen in this context, which should enable us to have better agreements tomorrow, but above all agreements which are then ratified within a reasonable time. It's a question of credibility. This change of approach for future free trade agreements should also encourage Belgium to look at past and pending agreements. In this area, our country continues to show a certain delay, which is detrimental to our image among our European and international partners. This is an effort to strengthen our reputation as a committed and reliable partner in trade policy. To that end, we must overcome our internal differences and find pragmatic solutions to ratify these already signed trade agreements as soon as possible, which we are sometimes the last to have not ratified. For the future, as I said, several agreements have almost been concluded and will have to be submitted to the Council for approval in the coming months or years. It is essential that Belgium can continue to take a proactive position on these texts in order to defend the interests of our SMEs and farmers, who are in great need of international markets with clear rules and a clear level playing field. Without this proactive and reliable approach, the voice of Belgium will simply not be taken into account at European level, and our ability to influence the debate will be greatly reduced. I would like to add that these efforts to restore our credibility are also particularly important in view of the forthcoming Belgian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, where we will have to act as a bridge builder and as a facilitator of compromises. With this presidency in mind, I am convinced that Belgium must continue to advocate an ambitious European policy which translates into an open, proactive, sustainable and assertive trade policy. An open trade policy aimed at the world where the rules-based multilateral system is the cornerstone. A proactive trade policy that seeks new markets and supports our SMEs and our farmers. A sustainable trade policy which, in addition to the Commission's new communication on the chapters (...), further develops other initiatives, such as those on the fight against advanced deforestation, on the duty of care, or on the prohibition of imports of products produced using forced labour. Finally, an assertive and protected trade policy. To this end, it must be equipped with autonomous defensive instruments such as: the instrument on international public procurement adopted in April last year to enable us to obtain reciprocal access to third-country public procurement; the condemnation to combat foreign subsidies which have a disruptive effect on the European internal market, which was agreed last week in the Trilogue; the anti-poverty instrument, which the Council is still working on, which should enable us to take counter measures against any third country which restricts trade and investment with the European Union or with some of its Member States, with the aim of changing the policies pursued by these countries. In conclusion, I would like to remind you once again how important it is for our country to be able to count on an ambitious European trade policy. International trade is not a luxury that Belgium can or cannot afford. It really is the backbone of our economy, on which the viability of many Belgian SMEs and the employment of one in five Belgian citizens depend. Without ambitious trade policies, the European Union would gradually become a second-class player. It would run the risk of going backwards rather than moving forward, isolating itself instead of inspiring itself and, it must be said, weakening rather than developing itself. It is therefore essential that Belgium remains fully committed in this area, especially with regard to the Presidency in 2024. This also means that we must strike the right balance between the four priorities I have proposed to you. European trade policy must become more sustainable and assertive, but this must not be at the expense of openness and proactivity. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to hearing your comments and questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. We face many challenges in terms of trade policy. You said that the internal market needs to be strengthened even further. That's for sure, I think this is another understatement. There are still many challenges for us to further strengthen the internal market, for example in the area of the freedom to provide services and the creation of jobs. However, the question is what we can do externally, with other trading partners outside the European Union. The corona crisis has taught us a lot of lessons. One of these lessons is that we may need to produce certain strategic products better ourselves, so that we are less dependent on other countries. The downside is that this is a reason for some countries to adopt protectionist measures, as you yourself said. I think we should try to avoid that at all times. That is why we prefer to talk about open strategic autonomy instead of strategic autonomy, on which the European Union is now committed. What is your view on this, Minister? Do we speak better about open strategic autonomy than about strategic autonomy? You also said that a challenging trade policy is important. You will certainly find a partner in us for that. You said that we should encourage multilateral agreements. The reason why some multilateral trade agreements or agreements between the European Union and other countries or groups of countries, I refer to the Mercosur Trade Treaty, are often not signed is because of the lack of stronger commitments on sustainability. The European Commission has now taken specific initiatives to strengthen sustainability. The conditionality clause that we often see in trade agreements can certainly be strengthened. With this commitment from the European Commission, these clauses can actually be enforced. For example, the Mercosur agreement uses an additional protocol to strengthen the sustainability dimension. I see that you, like Minister Wilmès, are in favour of these agreements. Will Belgium ask on the European stage to speed up the trade agreement with Mercosur countries again? A very important element you mentioned is whether or not these trade agreements are signed and ratified une question de crédibilité. I fully agree with you. Belgium must show itself to be a loyal partner. Moreover, the government agreement states that Belgium will be a loyal partner in ratifying trade agreements. Unfortunately, I have to say that it is different in practice. Then I come to my next question about the agreement between the European Union and Mexico. The High Representative of the EU for Foreign Policy, Mr Josep Borrell, explicitly called Belgium to fruition. He even said that it is a disaster that Belgium has still not ratified that agreement. You said in your speech that we must transcend our differences. I think this is a clear appeal to your coalition partners. We know what is wrong at national level with regard to the ratification of the agreement between the European Union and Mexico. What will you do to ensure that all parts of this country finally ratify the free trade agreement between the European Union and Mexico? The fact that the High Representative, Borrell, is calling on Belgium and calling it a disaster that Belgium has not yet ratified is in itself more than a disgrace. A second question is linked to this: following a letter addressed to you, few letters are being sent today by 15 European countries, calling on the Commission to speed up the conclusion of trade agreements with countries outside the European Union. As you did, they refer to the fact that it is possible to secure and strengthen long-term economic growth and the geopolitical status of the European Union in the world. The letter underlines the need for resilient supply chains, strategic partnerships and trade. These are three things that Belgium can support. We have also noted that the Czech Presidency, which has been working since Friday 1 July, is committed to strengthening European trade policy. So you will find a partner in that. However, we must note that Belgium did not sign that letter. It is a pity not to find Belgium in that list of fifteen countries. Why have we not co-signed the letter with the call for trade agreements, despite the fact that Belgium will be a loyal partner in signing trade agreements? I will conclude with an offer from our group. If you still have problems overcoming the differences, as you have said, and strengthening the credibilité, our group will offer you a majority in exchange to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u5	Minister, thank you. I have the impression that you're a bit of an off-road government vehicle and I'm trying to be one for my group because this isn't necessarily my favourite subject. I listened with great interest to your introduction in which you stress the importance of multilateralism. I can only agree with you. I am concerned about the impact of the Ukrainian crisis, particularly the impact on Africa, but I have the impression that there is not much concern about it. You said a sentence that bothers me a little to the extent that it does not correspond at all to what I think. You said we had to project our model around the world and I don't think it's a good solution, trade relations are not everything. To get out of this, you need a sense of compromise and pragmatism, but sometimes it takes a little time. Thus, in October 2020, at the time of the composition of this government, we committed ourselves to regulating free trade from "applicable and binding social and environmental standards" to bring it into line with the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals. However, the current draft agreement between the European Union and the Mercosur countries does not respect the essential parameters. The big finger technique, from Mr Borrell, Mrs von der Leyen or Mr Stoltenberg, towards the members is not necessarily the best way to approach Belgium because, despite our small size, we can show some resistance. The question is simple. If we are slow to ratify, it is simply because this project does not incorporate this government commitment. I know that government agreements are sometimes applied with a great deal of freedom depending on the subject and the parties involved. Is Belgium ready to continue not to approve this agreement and to advocate for a particular or complete reorganization to meet sustainable development objectives? Secondly, since the beginning of the health crisis, I have wanted to quickly file applications – repeated through resolutions, which once again proves that resolutions do not serve much – in order to lift the patents on vaccines. The whole world has complained about these patents. We were told that efforts were being made. However, Belgium has shown greater solidarity with some less well-equipped countries in terms of vaccine manufacturing facilities than other larger states. I have found that, despite all the requests of the World Health Organization, despite the arguments made by both to lift these patents and thus allow some countries to vaccinate their populations, we are blocking the system with our European and continental vaccines; this is good for pharmaceutical companies, especially the one installed in Walloon Brabant. In addition, we condemned the use of vaccines of Russian, Chinese or Cuban origin. After months in which the World Health Organization has advocated the lifting of these patents, the World Trade Organization has finally agreed to the lifting of some of them. This shows that even the crisis of the covid-19 is dependent on financial interests and that health and human interests go beyond commercial and economic interests. Is Belgium ready to continue to plead for a complete lifting of these intellectual property rights for tests, treatments and vaccines against covid-19? Furthermore, to what extent are we committed to embarking on this far-reaching and much-needed reform of the World Trade Organization? Indeed, we probably have a different approach, perhaps a slightly more humane approach because we may have greater experience as a country. You have understood that what matters to us, as far as the elements relating to trade treaties are concerned, is sustainable development, but also the social dimension. Mr Minister, I have listened to you all the way to the end and, at the end of your speech, you have referred to the dimensions of human rights and workers' rights. Fortunately, if that had not been the case, I would have called you and told you that you had forgotten something about your speech. As far as Europe is concerned, I note the problem with regard to the multilateral tribunal for the settlement of investment disputes. It was announced in 2017 but the time has passed so fast that, since then, not much has been achieved. The question is simple. Is Belgium ready to promote a multilateral court protecting foreign investment only against direct expropriation and under no circumstances of indirect expropriation? Will Belgium finally play a proactive role? I heard the Czech Ambassador introduce the Czech Presidency's plans. I haven't heard much about trade. Of course, we're talking a lot about defense right now. However, it is now important to implement what was declared in the first half of 2017, namely this multilateral tribunal, and to encourage the European directive on the duty of vigilance in supply chains. That is what I have done, as you have done, to be as brief and complete as possible in our respective interventions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u6	Minister, thank you for bringing this update of the various issues under way, whether it be the drafting of new treaties or the negotiation of some that are under way, under your supplementary responsibility, that is to say, that of external trade. I note, and thank you for reporting, that the discussions on, in particular, a free trade treaty between the European Union and India have resumed, with a purpose that you have rightly mentioned. This is to be achieved by the end of 2023. This will occupy this Parliament because it is a recovery that has taken place after many years of interruption. The idea is also to strengthen strategic ties with a country like India. It is well known how new geopolitical and strategic linkages can be achieved through trade objectives. This is important and I can only welcome this initiative. I have a few questions about that, minister. We know that the blockage is about patent protection – a very important issue that we also care about – and about tariff reductions. Do you have any idea how these blocking points could be exceeded? You also spoke about the last WTO Ministerial Conference held in Geneva between 12 and 17 June this year. Here, too, we have seen discussions about covid patents. We are also very worried. We have the opportunity to talk about this quite often here, Madam President, and I think unfortunately we will still have to do so in the months to come. I'm talking about all the decisions that relate to the food side. Indeed, we know that the current geopolitical situation in Europe will be at the root of enormous challenges. Can you provide us with information on the avenues envisaged at the last WTO Conference to overcome this crisis? On 22 June, we had a slightly different communication from the Commission, where the sustainable development dimension of trade agreements is mentioned. This is a cross-cutting aspect of all the issues that we want to address, with the aim of having a more incisive implementation of the sustainable development dimension in European trade policy. Can you tell us, Minister, where we are going in practice, knowing that the sectors concerned are fond of new information? As far as Africa is concerned, the construction of the African continental free trade area is regularly referred to. But we do not know exactly what the timetable for the establishment of this zone will be. In addition, very little information is available on the obstacles that exist in the current negotiations on this subject. Can you tell us about any new developments in this area? Before the end of the European Parliament, two defensive instruments will have to be adopted. On the one hand, there is the proposal for a regulation to combat foreign subsidies which distort the European internal market and, on the other, a proposal for an anti-coercive instrument which will enable the European Union to impose countermeasures on any third State which restricts trade and investment with the European Union or some of its Member States with the aim of changing implementation policies. These documents should be issued under our chairmanship. What will our country do to put these two gains on our record? I will leave it at that, Madam President. I have already said a lot and I think that other colleagues have some things to say. I will listen carefully to the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u7	Madam President, in the meantime, my question about the EU-Africa Summit, which took place in February, is somewhat dated. She included the TRIPS waiver proposal that India and South Africa had made to ensure within the World Trade Organisation that patents would be abandoned in order to scale up the production of corona vaccines worldwide. In the meantime, we know that there has been an agreement within the World Trade Organisation since 17 June, that it has probably been proposed by the European Union and negotiated behind the scenes. That proposal somewhat replaces the TRIPS waiver proposal, which is still being communicated as a full breakthrough in the dossier. If we listen to civil society and see where the agreement stands and what has been achieved, then there are some worrying issues. In this sense, it is also true that the original TRIPS waiver proposal would be a temporary exception to all 40 articles, which now appears to refer only to one paragraph. Apparently there are also limited relaxations, but only for vaccines and not for medicines and tests, including in the fight against the coronavirus. Restrictions on the export of vaccines would also be imposed. Where compulsory licences can be implemented, restrictions may also be imposed on the number of vaccines that can be exported by generic manufacturers. That's still an obstacle. It is true that additional conditions will actually be attached to the implementation of these compulsory licences, which were already integrated into the original TRIPS Treaty and that there were certain flexibilitys or exceptions on the basis of which compulsory licences could be applied. So there are some catchwords, which are particularly worrying for civil society. In any case, if we look globally at the bilan, it is not something to be proud of. We have lost a great deal of valuable time because the European Union, and indirectly our country, has chosen to put the interests of big pharma first, as long as possible and still, to the detriment of global health equality. If we look at the situation today, only 18% of the population in low-income countries is still vaccinated. Meanwhile, there is a new variant, which still makes people sick, despite three or four vaccination shots. The speed of the virus's circulation is still intense. It's still there and there's gonna be new variants. That could have been smothered in the bud much sooner, if one had approved that waver from the beginning and made that necessary knowledge and technology available in a pool, so that the world's production could have been scaled up immediately. In that sense, I do not want to deny you the reaction of Max Lawson, the head of the department that records health inequalities at Oxfam. He states that the attitude of the rich Western countries, including our country and the European Union, is shameful and that everything that appears to have been a significant suspension of intellectual property has been blocked for as long as possible. He calls it an agreement that shouldn't save lives but reputation. That's a crass statement, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u8	Minister, a number of concessions have been made under pressure from civil society and under pressure from a lot of actions, including the petition with 100,000 signatures of the No Profit on Pandemic initiative, and by the important health organisations on the ground, such as Doctors Without Borders, who have repeatedly argued for this TRIPS waiver. So progress has been made, but there is still no full TRIPS waver. What is your position on the agreement on the fight against COVID-19? Why are the tests and medicines excluded from that agreement? Will you also make it clear to the World Trade Organisation that any tightening of the existing compulsory licensing procedures is unacceptable? When will the government call for the effective abolition of these intellectual rights in order to increase the fight against the pandemic? As long as there is no full TRIPS waver, this will lead to an extension of the pandemic on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u9	Thank you for your explanation, Minister. The introduction of the report makes it clear that Belgium needs new trade agreements. We discussed today the so-called progress report. Unfortunately, I do not see any progress in this respect. Our open economy needs relance. Much is expected from the Czech and Swedish Presidencies. Our prosperity, our purchasing power and our SMEs need trade, that is a fact. I therefore hope that, in the interests of our country, you will proactively support all initiatives on trade on the European stage in the coming months. On 30 June 2022 the European Union concluded a trade agreement with New Zealand. What is your view on this trade agreement? What possibilities do you think there are in that for Belgium? When will the agreement go to the Council and the European Parliament? What steps will be taken to obtain effective approval of the agreement? Can you put a timeline on that? Could you also briefly explain the Belgian non-paper on page 12 of the report, to which you refer? What were the views expressed? Was this non-paper also endorsed by other European Member States? Does the agreement with New Zealand also mean that there is a new opportunity to conclude an agreement with Australia? Will the objective of concluding a trade agreement with Australia by 2023 be maintained? You are right to say that the World Trade Organisation remains essential for multilateral trade agreements. The thirteenth ministerial conference could coincide with the Belgian Presidency of the Council. This offers Belgium a unique opportunity to include trade in the Belgian programme for the Council Presidency. Are there concrete plans for this? On 13 June 2022 a bill was submitted in the United Kingdom allowing the government to unilaterally amend the Protocol. In response, the Commission has re-launched a pending infringement procedure and announced the launch of two new procedures. However, the Union remains prepared to negotiate for greater flexibility. What is the government's position on this? What are our red lines? What points is the Union prepared to negotiate for greater flexibility? China has challenged the Belgian 5G legislation in the Committee on Technical Barriers to Trade and the Trade Council of the World Trade Organisation. I will explain why China has done so. On 22 June 2022 the European Commission proposed a new approach to promote green and fair growth. It is the so-called Trade and Sustainable Development chapter. Trade can indeed bring about the transition to more sustainable and inclusive growth, but trade agreements are needed. How do you assess this plan? Do you believe that this new approach can break the de facto blocking of trade agreements? Mr Minister, the report's conclusion is very clear. In the coming months, the European Commission may submit several trade agreements to the Council. Belgium will therefore have to take a position. This is important for Belgium's prosperity, because businesses and SMEs in particular need clear rules and a level playing field. In the current geopolitical context, the European Union must therefore, more than ever, strive for a proactive trade policy that defends its trade interests. My question is to actively inform this committee of the views our country will take on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u10	My questions are mainly about trade and sustainable development, because this dimension is also very clearly stated in the government agreement. Our country has also actively participated in meetings organised on the revision of TSD, a chapter in our trade agreements. We are in favour of binding and ambitious provisions that can be enforced by an appropriate dispute resolution mechanism, as stated in the progress report. It is stated on page 18 that agreements already negotiated but not yet signed will not be reopened in order to renew the provisions on trade and sustainable development. Nevertheless, the Brussels and Walloon regions demand that this be done. Can we deduce from this that we will ask the European Union to renew the trade agreements negotiated but not yet signed? More specifically when it comes to Mercosur, where are we on this negotiation? Will there be an additional instrument or protocol that takes into account social standards, the environment, sustainable development and respect for human rights? You have said that we must remain credible, to which Mr Van Bossuyt also referred. We are rather slow in ratifying trade agreements negotiated and signed. Especially the south of the country seems to be blocking it. What steps will you take to speed up ratification? When it comes to trade and sustainable development, there are the three agreements negotiated rapidly with India: the trade agreement, the investment agreement and the agreement on geographical indications. If it goes so fast, how can we integrate the sustainable impact assessment into it? If this agreement is to be finalized so quickly, it is an important concern that lives. As regards the bilateral agreement on e-commerce in the WTO, there are also many civil society organisations that are concerned about its sustainability and the core labour standards of the ILO. Does our country also want to argue in key environmental agreements, such as the Paris climate agreement, when it comes to e-commerce in the WTO and the bilateral agreement, for the introduction of a sustainability chapter that can limit the negative social and environmental impact of e-commerce? Is it not more advisable to first look at what can be achieved on e-commerce at EU level? I am thinking, for example, of the Digital Markets Act, the Digital Services Act or the All Act. Isn't it more advisable to get to work on that first? Finally, I have a number of questions about the WTO. You referred to the successful ministerial conference in Geneva. That was a welcome development in the field of the WTO. However, negotiations are also underway on the reform of the organisation. How's that going? It is noted that there are a number of possibilities since the arrival of Biden. However, it is more difficult to unblock and reform the dispute resolution mechanism. What are the evolutions there? I would therefore like to have an overall view of the state of play of the WTO reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u11	Thank you, Madam President, for this well-provided set of questions, which allows us to go around the world in one afternoon. I will try to answer the questions, one after the other, knowing that several of them have been formally tabled in the committee. I'll answer it in the meantime. I will start with Mrs Van Bossuyt's questions about open strategic autonomy. Belgium supports the concept of open strategic autonomy. As a foreign-oriented economy, Belgium does not, of course, defend the vision of a protectionist Europe, but rather that of an open, inspiring and assertive Europe. Multilateralism based on rules that are respected by all and openness must remain the cornerstones of European trade policy. In addition to this openness, however, the European Union must also be able to defend itself and be able to react quickly when its economic interests are threatened, and protect its companies from unfair practices by certain third countries. The three elements are essential. Firstly, diversification of our sources of supply and export markets is essential to strengthen the resilience of our economy. In this context, the conclusion of new free trade and investment protection agreements will enable us to boost trade between our companies and those of countries with often stronger growth. That is all the more important in these times of crisis. Secondly, the European Union must at the same time be more assertive and therefore less naive. We must be better prepared for future crises and for unfair, unlawful and self-imposed practices by third countries. That is why we fully support the development of the toolbox of autonomous instruments of the European Union. Thirdly, an analysis of our strategic interests should also lead to a reduction in our dependence on third countries and sectors that are crucial for the development and security of the European economy. We need to consider how we can regain greater autonomy, for example in the areas of raw materials, energy or agriculture, without falling into a protectionist policy. In short, the EU must emancipate itself, collect its rightful place in value marks and reduce its dependence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u12	I also received a question from Mrs Van Bossuyt. However, Mr Flahaut and Mrs Van Hoof have asked the same question. I will answer these three questions about Mercosur together. Few new developments have occurred since the submission of the previous progress report. It is also unlikely that this issue will evolve before the Brazilian presidential elections scheduled for October. However, several European partners are calling for a resumption of discussions. In particular, it is the wish of the Czech Presidency of the Council of the European Union and of the future Swedish and Spanish Presidencies that will precede our presidency in 2024. It is therefore to be expected that there will be further discussions on this agreement in the fall. In this context, I would like to stress here that the entry into force of this agreement is crucial and that an agreement is preferable to the lack of agreement, not only on a purely commercial level but also on a geopolitical, environmental and sustainable development level. On the trade front, the agreement will offer the first mover to the European Union thanks to the fact that Mercosur has signed few trade agreements in the past and, thanks to the abolition of often very high tariffs. The Belgian offensive economic interests in this respect are chemicals, pharmaceuticals, the textile sector, public procurement in the field of infrastructure, motor vehicles and machinery. At the geopolitical level, it is important for the European Union to promote its international norms and values at a time when they are being breached by other countries, including China. Whether it is health standards, environmental standards or sustainability priorities, the Union's impact on the world trade scene will be much greater through commitment than through disengagement. As far as the environment is concerned, the failure to sign the agreement would not solve the problem of deforestation. On the contrary, if we give up the agreement, we will have no leverage, no root that could encourage our South American partners to pursue the necessary environmental policy which would enable them to continue to enjoy the trade advantages of the agreement. We also know that if we do not conclude this agreement, other international players with less attention to the environment will not hesitate. As far as sustainable development is concerned, this agreement provides for binding but non-enforceable agreements on the fundamental principles. For example, the Parties undertake to effectively implement certain international conventions or guidelines such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Paris Climate Agreement, the ILO Conventions, or the OECD Guidelines on Due Diligence. As with the environmental plan, non-ratification of the agreement would mean that the EU would lose its leverage to encourage partner countries to undertake the necessary reforms. Belgium therefore supports the Commission's efforts, including its intention to strengthen its autonomous legislative instruments. The proposed legislative initiatives on combating imported deforestation, on corporate social responsibility and on the announced ban on products from forced labour receive our full support. They must help to mitigate the possible negative effects of trade agreements while promoting our values and values among our trading partners. However, Belgium considers that the agreement cannot be ratified in its current form. Additional conditions should be added to the agreement by means of an additional protocol. Those conditions should be legally binding and enforceable, strengthen provisions on combating deforestation, ensure the strengthening of social rights and better protect sensitive agricultural sectors in the EU. That is necessary. The new approach to sustainable development should also be reflected in such an additional protocol in one way or another. As far as agriculture is concerned, last May I sent the European Commission a non-paper containing a number of elements concerning the cumulative impact of trade agreements on the agricultural sector, which we would like to highlight in the general context of the negotiations under way. This is, of course, very relevant in the context of the Mercosur agreement. Belgium therefore wishes to play a constructive role in finding the conditions for reaching an agreement acceptable to Mercosur and to all EU Member States. If we are alone against this agreement, there is a danger that the Commission and the partners who want to conclude such an agreement will be forced to split it up. Belgium would lose all influence as the trade agreement could then be adopted by qualified majority. We must be aware of this in this very sensitive debate. That is why we will continue our efforts to make the EU-Mercosur agreement an example that shows that a trade agreement does not lead to more deforestation, harmful economic consequences or a weakening of European standards, but rather is an instrument of soft power that can promote, share and implement European policies beyond our borders. Then I had a question from Mrs Van Bossuyt, but she is no longer here. However, I had a very long answer for Mrs Van Bossuyt. Mr President, I shall reply in writing to Mrs Van Bossuyt on the question relating to Mexico.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u13	Was that a written question?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u14	Yes. Do we do the same? Perfect. So I move on to your questions, Mr. President. First of all, as far as partnerships are concerned, I can understand that the word has spoken to you a little bit, in relation to the model we had. In fact, it obviously needs to be understood as a partnership rather than a model to be imposed. Rather, it is a partnership that we must engage in with our African partners. There is then a question from Mrs Van Bossuyt, but also from Mr Van Bossuyt. De Vuyst and Mrs Jadin, on the problem of vaccines. I'm going to respond globally. This concerns intellectual property rights surrounding covid-19 vaccines. As you know, discussions on this issue took place in Geneva for over a year and a half in the TRIPS Council of the World Trade Organization. Over the past 20 months, our country has consistently encouraged the European Commission to engage constructively and proactively in these discussions. This approach has recently produced a result. Indeed, an agreement was reached in mid-June at the 12th WTO Ministerial Conference in Geneva. This agreement is based on the draft compromise that emerged in mid-March from the discussions in the QUAD format. The compromise applies to covid-19 vaccines for a period of five years and provides countries that consider it necessary with an accelerated and simplified procedure for issuing compulsory licences. Such licences allow a government to authorize, in an emergency, an enterprise or a State to produce a patented product for non-commercial purposes without the consent of the patentee. In this way, compulsory licences may be granted by a government, including through an emergency decree, an executive order, authorizations and judicial or administrative orders, when the system had previously to be transposed into national legislation. Similarly, it will no longer be necessary to negotiate with the holder of the patents associated with a covid-19 vaccine. The export procedure is also simplified in order to facilitate the export of vaccines to eligible countries. The compromise also clarifies that the remuneration of the patent holder by the producer of the generic vaccine must take into account the humanitarian and not-for-profit aspect of this production. Finally, it also specifies that the protection of regulatory data must not affect the effectiveness of compulsory licences granted. The EU has therefore taken seriously the concerns of the countries with regard to patent exemptions and has contributed to finding viable solutions to the concrete problems faced by some countries. The response of South African Minister Patel, who welcomes the agreement, and says that it actually meets a number of difficulties that the country is experiencing, confirms this. At the same time, this agreement does not undermine the IP system, which is so fundamental to innovation. This agreement is also linked to a broader statement on trade and health, which aims to better prepare the world for future pandemics. The statement refers, among other things, to the restrictions on exports and the lack of transparency that were particularly problematic at the beginning of the pandemic. It was of prime importance to the European Union and Belgium that the declaration on trade and health and the agreement on intellectual property form a whole in order to provide a holistic response from the WHO to the pandemic. Finally, a possible decision on the extension of the agreement on vaccines to therapeutics and diagnostics is expected by 16 December. My services will continue to monitor this process closely to ensure that our interests and concerns are taken into account. Mr De Vuyst, in your question, you mentioned additional conditions. Be reassured, no additional conditions have been added to the agreement. I have also been asked several questions about the WTO. I propose to respond globally. The twelfth WTO Ministerial Conference originally scheduled for 12 June 2020 was held in Geneva from 12 to 17 June 2022, while the WTO has been under pressure for several years. In addition, geopolitical tensions have arisen as a result of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Despite this difficult context, the Twelfth Conference produced fairly encouraging results for the future, with agreements that directly contribute to a sustainable global food security policy and equitable access to vaccines. Before I give you more details on the outcome of this Conference, I would like to highlight one of the main elements of its satisfaction. Here we are talking about the fact that it is still possible to conclude meaningful multilateral agreements that concern us all. This is an important and crucial signal for the Union and for Belgium, which make the defence of a rules-based international trading system a key priority. More specifically, with regard to the outcome of the Ministerial Conference, the following elements can be highlighted. First, we can welcome the historic agreement reached in speeches on the pandemic and intellectual property aspects. I mentioned this in Mr Flahaut's previous question. Secondly, in the debate on food security, the Conference allowed the adoption of a policy declaration to facilitate trade in agricultural products and to limit export restrictions and other exceptional measures as much as possible. It also resulted in the adoption of a decision to exempt World Food Programme purchases from export restrictions. This will not fundamentally change the crisis resulting, I repeat, from Russia's illegal invasion of Ukraine, but should help to restore the world food market or, in any case, reduce its distortions. The Union itself has taken other important initiatives, such as solidarity routes, to ensure that frozen agricultural supplies reach buyers and importing countries. But this remains a huge challenge with important global consequences. In addition, some EU Member States have imposed export restrictions, which the European Commission regrets. In addition, India, which is one of the major producers, also maintains reserves for its population. There is also a partial agreement on fisheries subsidies, after 20 years of negotiations. This is an innovative agreement that prohibits subsidies for illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, with an absolute ban on subsidies for unregulated high seas fishing. The agreement also provides that subsidies for overexploited stocks will be prohibited unless accompanied by measures to restore stocks at a sustainable level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u15	As you know, WTO reform is one of Belgium's priorities. First, it is important to re-establish the effectiveness of the Organization so that it can respond quickly to contemporary priorities and reach agreements. Secondly, there is a need for the dispute settlement mechanism to return rapidly to full operation. A commitment has been made to that end. By 2024, we have to work on it, as soon as we get back to school. The General Council and its auxiliary bodies will conduct the work and consider any decisions to be submitted to the next Ministerial Conference scheduled for the end of 2023 or the beginning of 2024. The agreements set out that in 2024 a more fully functioning dispute resolution mechanism should be established. For Belgium, it is a priority for the WTO to regain its parental role of multilateralism in international trade. To this end, three basic functions need to be revived, namely to be a forum for negotiation, to monitor the agreements concluded and, if necessary, to settle disputes. As the appeal body is blocked, the resumption of this mechanism is a priority in the short term. Of the current system, we want to maintain the two-stage procedure and the binding nature of the panel's decisions. In addition, principles such as the independence of judges and a rapid and efficient procedure are important for Belgium. Progress in the internal functioning of the WTO would be desirable, for example by extending the notification and transparency obligations, increasing the involvement of non-governmental actors and strengthening the secretariat. With regard to the negotiations, the WTO should focus more on new negotiations and priorities such as digital and sustainable development or services. Furthermore, the United States has a central role to play in the reform of the WTO. Their level of commitment and ambition does not meet Belgian and European expectations. However, we continue to call bilaterally for such a strong commitment with a view to the reform of the WTO. Fifthly, I am also pleased that the general political statement contains paragraphs on gender, climate and biodiversity. Sixthly, for the first time since 1998 there has been lobbying for an extension of the moratorium and work programme on e-commerce. There was a real risk that states could impose tariffs on electronic transmissions related to e-commerce. However, the moratorium has played a crucial role in the development of digital commerce and I am very pleased that it has been extended to at least early 2024. Finally, despite this progress, it is a pity that no agreement could be reached on further agricultural reforms. The Indian persistence to the unconditional formalisation of the public storage of food blocked all discussions. Agriculture will therefore be the challenge of the 13th Ministerial Conference expected to take place at the end of 2023. I have received a question from Mr Flahaut concerning the multilateral investment court. In this regard, Belgium is continuing its efforts in Working Group 3 of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law to reform the current ad hoc arbitration system for investor-State differences. Together with the Union and its Member States, Belgium shall, inter alia, promote the option of reforming a multilateral investment court which should eventually replace arbitration. Last year, emphasis was placed on the further development of this reform option as well as the finalization of the binding code of conduct for arbitrators and judges of a future multilateral investment court. Negotiations are progressing slowly but surely. There is a dichotomy between countries that are considering more structural reform and countries that prefer to remain more aligned with the current system, with greater party autonomy. However, the additional resources were approved for the working group last year, which allowed it to intensify its work with the aim of completing a comprehensive package of reforms by 2026. Since it is a multilateral process, a consensus will be needed to adopt reform, which is a certain challenge. Mrs Jadin and Mrs Van Hoof asked me about India. Belgium is India's third largest trading partner in the European Union and one of its largest investors. Belgium is therefore in favour of strengthening trade relations for the benefit of both partners. In this regard, we welcome the resumption of negotiations for a free trade agreement, an investment protection agreement and an agreement on geographical indications. We have therefore followed with great attention the first round of negotiations that has just taken place last week in New Delhi. There should be two more cycles this year, which will allow us to take stock towards the end of 2022. Although we support the negotiations, we remain realistic. The road ahead will be long and complicated. India has proven in the past to be a difficult negotiating partner. This was again the case very recently at the WTO Ministerial Conference. The political signals are very positive, as India has changed since the first round of negotiations, which had to be suspended in 2013. Whether this leadership commitment will quickly be reflected at the level of Indian negotiators and administration is now to be seen. My services will therefore closely monitor these negotiations and ensure that the level of ambition is maintained. Significant progress is needed in the resolution of certain trade barriers. For Belgium, it is imperative that India adhere to ambitious environmental and labour standards. While supporting the European Commission in the negotiations, we will not fail to defend our commercial and other interests in these negotiations. The challenge is great, but the potential is even greater. With regard to these economic interests, I will of course mention the diamond sector, which is our strongest trading link with India. We therefore wish to remove tariff barriers on polished and cut diamonds, laboratory diamonds and polished and cut precious stones, as well as on the main goods exported by Belgium to India, namely chemicals, machinery, iron and steel, plastics and their applications, optical instruments, textiles, food (apples, chickens, alcohol, etc.).). We also want to achieve differentiated treatment for sensitive agricultural products in order to avoid possible market distortions, in particular for beef, pigmeat and poultry, eggs, sugar and milk products. Belgium also advocates the removal of existing non-tariff barriers and free access to Indian services markets in general and in particular for privately funded healthcare, the exploitation and development of civil airports, green technology and renewable energy, dredging, environment and tourism. The political dimension of this relationship with India is also very important. The conclusion of such agreements with New Delhi would demonstrate our commitment to the Indian giant at the heart of this Indo-Pacific region, which is so strategic for the future of the planet but also for European prosperity. The African Continental Free Trade Area is one of the flagship projects of Agenda 2063 developed by the African Union. It aims at the economic integration of African countries with, in the long run, the abolition of customs duties on 97% of tariff lines. To date, 54 African countries have signed the agreement. The ratification process for the deposit of instruments and offers is under way in the various countries. Only Eritrea has not yet joined the area. The zone entered into force on 1 January 2021. Countries normally have between 5, 10 and 13 years to liberalize their tariff lines according to the level of development of countries and the sensitivity of products. The main difficulty is related to the implementation of the zone throughout the continent and is the fragmentation of the territory into various customs unions already in place, such as, for example, the Central African Economic and Monetary Community or the East African Community. The administrative capacity of some countries may be a hindrance. The EU, by virtue of its expertise in this area, therefore has a role to play in assisting in the establishment of a single market and a customs union. Mrs Jadin, with regard to the anti-coercive instrument, Belgium supports the Commission's efforts to develop its toolbox of autonomous instruments to protect the EU from threats, pressures and unfair measures taken by third countries. These measures not only have an impact on our companies' exports, but they will only stop if they are truly binding. The absence of instruments that the EU can use could encourage some states to take an increasing number of binding measures vis-à-vis our businesses and governments. I would add, however, that we should always favour a negotiated solution with the third country in order to minimize the impact on our trade flows and avoid any escalation that would be detrimental to us. Channels of communication must remain open so that dialogue leads at all times to a mutually acceptable solution. If this proves impossible, as a last resort countermeasures must be taken. However, they must comply with WTO rules, be proportionate and be adopted in full transparency in close consultation with the Member States and must cease as soon as the third State withdraws the measures in question. In this context, I therefore welcome the adoption in April, ten years after the publication of the original proposal, of the instrument on international public procurement, which should enable the European Union to obtain reciprocal access to third-country public procurement. I also welcome the agreement reached in a trialogue last week on the proposal for a regulation to combat foreign subsidies which distort the European internal market. The aim of this instrument is to ensure a level playing field between European companies which are subject to state aid rules and non-European companies for which there are no rules at the moment. Finally, in December 2021 the Commission published its proposal for anti-coercive instruments which should enable the Union to impose countermeasures on any third State which restricts trade and investment with the European Union or some of its Member States, with the aim of changing the policies put in place by those States. Work continues in the Council on this proposal, which should be adopted before the end of the current European Parliament. It is, however, still too early to know whether this instrument will be adopted before or during our presidency. With regard to the examination of the chapters on trade and sustainable development, which Mrs Jadin also asked me about, I am already warning you that the answer will be very long. If you wish, I can send it to you. As Mrs Van Bossuyt has returned, we can come back to her questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u16	If it so wishes, the answers may also be given in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u17	You had tabled two questions and I have the two answers to them here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u18	I apologize, I also had a question for your colleague, Minister Dermagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u19	I have the answers right here. Would you like a written answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u20	I notice that Mr Flahaut likes to go somewhere else quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u21	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u22	I'll go on then. I will therefore answer Mrs Jadin's question on trade and sustainable development. The publication by the Commission of its Communication on the review of the implementation of the trade and sustainable development chapters is, and we welcome it, an expected and important step in the current context. This initiative is intended to ensure the effective implementation of the commitments made in the field of labour law, social law and the environment in the framework of the Union's trade agreements. These issues are today, of course, with different sensitivities, priorities expressed by both the political world, the private sector and the general public. It was therefore important for the Commission to show a balanced ambition in what it was going to propose. During this review process initiated by the Commission in the summer of 2021, a consolidated Belgian position was validated last spring, defining our country's expectations, concerns and priorities. We have therefore been able to actively relay these ideas to the European Commission so that it can take them into account when drawing up its communication. The Commission's final communication, published on 22 June, is positive and broadly shares many similarities with the Belgian position. The Communication stresses in particular the objective of making our trade more sustainable, with a view to achieving economic growth that benefits all; while stressing that the European Union must strengthen its role as a reliable trading partner. These are three very important cross-cutting objectives. Secondly, the Commission proposes to achieve these objectives by strengthening cooperation and dialogue with our trading partners and by providing assistance, where necessary, to help them implement their obligations. This approach based on dialogue and cooperation must remain the basis of our trade policy. Thirdly, we also agree with the country-specific approach proposed by the Commission. Indeed, a pragmatic, realistic business approach is needed that takes into account the partner with whom we negotiate. This approach must complement a core of important provisions for the Union, which should therefore be reflected in all of our agreements. I am thinking in particular of references such as the Paris Agreement, the fundamental principles of the ILO or gender equality. Furthermore, Belgium shares the Commission's desire to prioritise and further liberalise trade in goods and services to meet environmental and climate challenges. The issue of impact assessments of each agreement is also fundamental, both before the start of negotiations to define priorities and identify potential negative impacts of the agreements, but also in the implementation phase to monitor the actual impacts of the agreements. Belgium welcomes the importance attached in the Communication to improving cooperation between EU institutions and Member States, particularly abroad. It is important to ensure good cooperation between our embassies, the Union delegations, our Chambers of Commerce and our regional attachés, in order to remove possible trade barriers and to act together to that end. The clarification of transparency in the handling of complaints received through the Single Entry Point is also a welcome development. The Commission also stresses in this communication the need to strengthen the involvement of civil society in the bodies involved in the monitoring of agreements, but also in the various stages of the negotiations. It was a request from Belgium. A key aspect, but not sufficiently present in the proposal, is improving the measurability of the agreements. It is, of course, an ad hoc road map, but we believe it is essential to have a regular assessment of the indicators covered by the agreements. For example, in the annual trade policy monitoring reports, this monitoring should be able to highlight the impact of the agreements. Finally, last but not least, Belgium advocated ambitious trade and sustainable development chapters, including binding provisions, subject to an appropriate dispute settlement mechanism, to help fulfil the commitments made by our trading partners, but also by ourselves. As such, we are analysing the proposals put forward by the Commission, in particular concerning the dispute settlement mechanism and the application – in some respects – of sanctions as a last resort, in the event of a serious breach of the Paris Agreement and the fundamental principles of the ILO. In conclusion, I believe that the publication of this Commission communication constitutes a decisive moment in the European Union's trade policy, setting out clear commitments made by the Commission, which respond in a concrete and satisfactory manner to the concerns expressed for years, in particular by our country, as well as by the European Parliament, in terms of trade policy. We must ensure that these intentions are materialized, bearing in mind the imponderables inherent in bilateral negotiations, as well as the need to reach a compromise. This communication must help us to make our trade policy more sustainable, to ensure that it helps to meet the challenges at hand, while preserving its positive effects on our economy, businesses and citizens. This communication must also place us collectively before our responsibilities and allow us to lay down the necessary conditions for the full implementation of trade agreements, which involve the ratification of those concluded by the Union. The coherence and credibility of the European Union, and therefore also of our country, for an open, ambitious, balanced, assertive and more sustainable trade policy is at stake. Madam President, I also have the answer to Mrs Verhaert's question on the EU-New Zealand trade agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u23	Mr President, I would like to ask you a question. Mrs Verhaert's 55029373C has been converted into a written question, since Mrs Verhaert is taking part in the meeting of the Mobility Committee. Your answer will therefore be included in the newsletter of written questions and answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u24	Mrs Verhaert also asked an unofficial question about Australia.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u25	Since it is an unofficial question, the answer cannot be included in the written questions and answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u26	That is why I will answer that question now. Belgium supports the negotiations with Australia for an ambitious but balanced free trade agreement. First of all, we call for a chapter on trade and sustainable development as ambitious and enforceable as possible, in line with the revised approach to sustainable development. In addition, Belgium wants a balanced agreement that takes account of our sensitivities in agriculture, given the cumulative impact of the various trade agreements on the sensitive agricultural sector. Belgium also has offensive interests in the field of sub-central public procurement, the threshold for the screening of investments, the extension of pharmaceutical patents, raw materials and maritime services. Belgium acknowledges that the agreement has not only economic but also political value, due to Australia's position in the geostrategic Indo-Pacific region, access to the necessary raw materials and the joint efforts of the rules-based trading system. Although the negotiations have progressed well with twelve rounds of talks, an agreement is not yet possible by the end of the year. This is mainly due to the delay in autumn 2021, following the unexpected Australian decision on the submarine file and the AUKUS agreements and the recent Australian elections. Progress will therefore need to be made in the coming year in many areas, including intellectual property, services, rules of origin, subsidies, energy and raw materials, as well as trade and sustainable development. A new EU agricultural supply is therefore not yet on the table. However, it is envisaged that an agreement will be reached in the course of 2023. Despite Brexit, the United Kingdom remains one of the European Union's main trading partners. This is even more true for Belgian companies than for some other European countries. The proper implementation of the withdrawal agreement and of the trade and cooperation agreement is therefore essential to cope with the economic consequences of the UK's departure from the internal market. However, in order to continue trading, it is crucial that the framework and the underlying rules on which both partners have negotiated and agreed are respected. The unilateral withdrawal of certain rules is not conducive to creating a stable framework for cooperation and certainly not for business. Respect for fair conditions of competition is another guarantee of good trade. That is why Belgium supports the European Commission, which is concerned on the one hand about the British Government's initiative which threatens to circumvent the Northern Ireland Protocol and provides for the necessary responses, but on the other hand considers how more flexibility can be integrated into the existing framework without completely revoking the negotiations on the Protocol. Maintaining fair conditions of competition between the European Union and the United Kingdom is essential to ensure smooth trade. The trade agreement contains clear rules in this area and the Commission is following this closely. In the context of a local content criterion imposed when granting subsidies for offshore wind energy, the European Union had initiated proceedings against the United Kingdom at the World Trade Organisation. The United Kingdom announced last week that it had decided to amend its rules in line with the requirements of the European Union, which demonstrates the merits of the Commission's complaint and once again underlines the usefulness of the World Trade Organisation's dispute resolution mechanisms. As far as Mrs Verhaert's question about the Belgian Presidency is concerned, I have no answer. It's still too early to be able to respond to our program. I will not fail to provide an answer when we are ready. We also have another question from Mrs Verhaert about China. As far as China is concerned, we will continue to defend our interests in the WTO. As regards, in particular, the Belgian 5G legislation, which China submits to the WTO committees as an unlawful discrimination against Chinese companies, it is the European Commission that defends our interests. It remains to be seen whether China will respond to its threats to effectively sue Belgium under WTO law or under the outdated bilateral investment agreements that Belgium and Luxembourg have concluded with China. As regards Mrs Van Hoof's question on the institutional aspect and ratification, the government agreement stipulates that the federal government will show itself to be a reliable trading partner in the ratification of trade agreements. Treaties that have already been signed will be offered for ratification and discussed in Parliament on the basis of an impact assessment assessing the general interests of our economy and, in particular, a chapter on sustainable development. The best is the enemy of good. If we want to influence the current debate, it is important that we adopt realistic, concrete and balanced positions and proposals. It is in our interest to assess each agreement on its own merits and to underpin each position with quantifiable data and constructive policy proposals. At the same time, we must pay particular attention to the ratification of pending trade and investment protection agreements. If we continue to refuse to ratify them, it weakens our voice in the European trade debate. Moreover, it can only encourage the Commission to conclude agreements which no longer need to be ratified by the competent national and regional parliaments. It therefore seemed essential that we should have the courage to enter into a constructive debate on this ratification. Doing nothing cannot be the solution, as this is detrimental to Belgium, our partner countries, the European Commission and the other Member States. Finally, such an attitude is particularly damaging to Belgian industrial and agricultural interests. I come to Mrs Van Hoof's questions on e-commerce. Together with its European partners, Belgium is very pleased that an agreement was reached at the 12th WTO Ministerial Conference in Geneva on the extension of the multilateral agreement on the moratorium on electronic transmission tariffs, which has been in force for 24 years. Our economy depends heavily on our exports, both on goods and on services. The extension of the moratorium will renew a multilateral decision in the WTO. That is a good thing, because it strengthens the rules-based multilateral trade type that we are defending. This decision is crucial for the competitiveness of our companies, which have already been severely affected by the pandemic and by the increase in energy and raw materials. A further increase in the prices of products purchased online was also not feasible for our citizens. In this context, we fully support the multilateral negotiations on digital commerce, which must respond to the main needs of our companies, often SMEs, when they offer their goods and services internationally. They should increase predictability, interoperability and legal certainty and create a safe online environment for our consumers. Agreements have already been reached on provisions on paperless trade, on-line consumer protection, electronic contracts and spam messages. By the end of 2022, the co-chairs of this bilateral initiative will try to make progress in the more difficult discussions, for example on data flows and the location of data, source code and cyber security. These negotiations are widely supported in Geneva and could be a stepping stone to multilateral agreements. It is also clear that the provisions of the digital chapters of the European Union's trade agreements, as well as those agreed in the bilateral negotiations, must remain in line with developments in the digital single market and must be based on safeguards, such as the right of states to draw up rules, including on labour. It is also important to maintain the exception for audiovisual services. Finally, the European Union should build on its high standards and values of data protection, privacy and consumer protection and contribute to international standards in these areas. This will benefit citizens and consumers worldwide. Madam President, I think I have provided answers to all the questions asked by colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u27	Madam President, I thought the two questions I had asked would still be answered, but I understand that I will receive the answer in writing. Mr. Secretary, you don't have to read them to me. I will read the answers and, on that basis, I will ask further questions. Minister, I would like to hear you say that trade policy and trade agreements are important, but I hope that things will finally change in practical terms and that the majority will reach an effective agreement. You mentioned the United Kingdom just now, but you did not mention the Northern Ireland protocol. I think there's a lot to be done about that protocol right now. We need to follow closely what happens with that, because the United Kingdom is threatening to unilaterally cancel an agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u28	Mr. Secretary, will you answer me again?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u29	I will answer both questions so that they can be incorporated into the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u30	Minister, Mrs Van Bossuyt seems to be satisfied if you give her the answers in writing and she will ask additional questions on that basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u31	Can they be added to the report?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u32	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u33	That's not possible!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u34	Can they be included in the report? [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u35	Madam President, since I think it is interesting that this is reflected in the report, I will read them out.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u36	All right. Ministers' answers can be found in the report, but not in the case of written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u37	I apologize to the translators, because I will try to speak quickly. Mrs Van Bossuyt, in reply to your question on the EU agreements with Mexico and Central America, I can tell you that the current blockade of the modernisation of the general agreement between the EU and Mexico is not caused by Belgium or one of its federated entities. In June 2021, the European Commission decided to split the final agreement into several parts and to submit to Mexico a proposal for a text containing three separate legal instruments: a free trade agreement, an investment protection agreement and a political agreement. However, Mexico has indicated that it is opposed to a division of a general agreement. Negotiations between the European Commission and Mexico are still underway in order to reach a pragmatic solution. Belgium's final position on the agreement, or rather on these three agreements, will be determined when the text in its final legal form is submitted to the Council of the European Union for approval. As far as the association agreement with the countries of Central America is concerned, I must admit that the situation in which Belgium is located is particularly uncomfortable. Since the Walloon Region and the French Community have not yet ratified this agreement, Belgium is indeed the last Member State that has not yet completed its ratification procedure. The same applies to the trade agreement with Colombia, Peru and Ecuador, where the French Community and the Brussels-Capital Region have not yet approved the agreement. This puts us in a very difficult position vis-à-vis the countries concerned and our European partners, who do not understand our position. These agreements are already partially in force and we are deprived of the mechanisms provided for in these agreements for a dialogue on political aspects, human rights and sustainable development in general. If an agreement already concluded is not ratified, there is also a risk that the EU will lose its credibility with these partners, which in turn could have an adverse effect on ongoing and future negotiations. Finally, these attitudes and blockades are at the disadvantage of Belgium. This is contrary to the Commission's analysis of the future trend towards the opening of trade negotiations which deal exclusively with purely commercial aspects and therefore fall within its exclusive competence and should no longer be ratified by Member States. Since the approval of these agreements requires only a qualified majority, the influence of our country during the negotiations would be greatly reduced. It is therefore important to adopt a constructive attitude and to show us as a reliable partner. We have also regularly supported the Commission in its efforts to better measure the implementation of trade agreements. This measureability should make it possible to assess the positive effects of the entry into force of trade agreements, but also to correct any undesirable effects. We hope that such an evaluation can contribute to better agreements in the future and can therefore have a positive impact on the speed with which agreements can be ratified by our respective parliaments. Mrs Van Bossuyt, I can confirm that, at the end of the preparatory process, Belgium was invited to join this letter. As part of the 1994 cooperation agreements, my services informed the federal and federated partners of this initiative. Several of them indicated that they did not agree with the content of this letter, so that our country could not join the 15 other signatories. While supporting the EU's ambitious trade policy, some Belgian stakeholders considered that this call for new trade agreements does not contain sufficient guarantees for sustainable development. In your question, you refer to the words of former Minister Goffin, with whom I fully agree: "I believe that trade agreements are essential for our economy, which is one of the most open economies in the world. They are also essential for the internationalisation of our companies and in particular our SMEs, as stated in the federal government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u38	Mr Minister, frankly, after hearing your answer, you cannot blame us as Flemish nationalists for being in favour of a passionate form of confederalism. Flanders is responsible for 80% of our exports. We are being held hostage because some states in our country do not want to sign the trade agreements which we have signed. I find that very inappropriate, to put it mildly. Minister, I would like to ask you to urge your state colleagues to sign it. You also say that certain entities did not agree to sign that letter from 15 countries, in which they advocated speeding up trade agreements at European level. Can you tell me which sub-entities that was about?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u39	As regards contacts with colleagues in the federated entities, there are some and they are taken at the highest level and on a regular basis. I hope we will one day win. The contacts were made and Sophie Wilmès had taken them at the time. There are also many of those at CIPE level. They exist, but they are fruitless. Compared to the entities that did not allow the letter to be signed, there is the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and the Brussels-Capital Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u40	Minister, that only confirms that, as Flemings, we are being held hostage in our desire to further support SMEs and entrepreneurs, our trade as an open economy. You say there are contacts with those entities. I hope that it will not just be a matter of contact, but that there will finally be an emergency in the matter so that we can go for what needs to be done. Moreover, I believe that our entrepreneurs, including the corona pandemic, have already been punished more than enough. There are now opportunities and opportunities being held back by certain sub-entities, and I think that is really inappropriate. It's almost a hostage situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic849x.u41	Anyone else asking for the floor? [[No.]]
