ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u1	Minister, on 7 February, you announced that parts of the old prisons of Dendermonde and St. Gillis would remain open for longer than intended in order to increase prison capacity in the short term. We had insisted on this for a long time. The first new prison will be opened this autumn. Since time is rather short to get things organized, I hope that the preparations for keeping the old prisons open for longer will be smooth. Today you have already taken a hint of the veil with the announcement that another Brussels prison will become a detention house. There are still questions. What has the Council of Ministers officially decided on the conditions for keeping the prisons of Saint Gillis and Dendermonde open longer? Were the plans discussed in the government prior to your communication of February 7th? Were there any consultations with the mayors involved? I had the impression at the time, partly because of reactions from colleagues and the questions that were asked here, that there had been no consultation or at least no far-reaching consultation. So I'm assuming it's happened now. I would have liked to have heard the outcome of that consultation. Has a route already been started to recruit staff, not only to eliminate the current shortage of staff, but also to increase staff in line with communication? Are the necessary budgets already included in the budget? That is still quite unclear. Last week, during the plenary session, we had to observe that the Secretary of State had to remain vague about this. Finally, is it clear in the meantime whether renovations are needed in the old prisons in order to keep them open for longer? If so, what and have the expenditure already been estimated and/or budgeted?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u2	On 18 March last, the Council of Ministers took the substantive decision of 250 places for St Gillis and 100 places for Oud-Dendermonde. The Government of the Buildings is charged with drawing up and signing the sales certificate for the St. Gillis prison before September 2023, with the transfer of the property on 1 January 2025. The prison of Dendermonde can stay open until the opening of the FPC in Aalst. As for your second question, the members of the government are of course aware that prisons are overcrowded and that measures need to be taken. I have been discussing this with other parties in the government for some time. My colleague, Mathieu Michel, is in the process of consulting with the mayors of the cities concerned. As far as your third question is concerned, plans are being made and steps are being made to recruit staff for the new prisons and for the two prisons that will remain open longer. We are in consultation with the various departments of the administration at Justice and at EPI. The recruitment campaign for the two new prisons was launched at the beginning of March 2022. He could count on a lot of attention in the local press. For the Brussels prisons we also work together with the city of Brussels. We hope to attract enough candidates with this. In addition, we are also taking initiatives to organise selection procedures more efficiently and thus accelerate them. As far as your fourth question is concerned, the budgets as we speak will be discussed in the budget conclave which will take place at the end of the week. As far as your last question is concerned, conservation works will be carried out. The areas where renovations will be needed will no longer be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u3	I note that 250 places in Saint Gillis will remain available until 2023. We are already at the end of March 2022. There will therefore have to be sufficient places elsewhere by the time this is no longer possible. As far as the consultation is concerned, you are moving it a little too easily to your colleague Michel. I am afraid there has not been too much consultation. This is directly in line with my concern about budgeting. It is still being discussed in conclave. I told you that the Secretary of State for the Budget was rather vague about it and I hope that you will indeed find the budgets for it so that the overpopulation can be remedied. For example, the dossier does not have to end with a sisser, with penalties being undermined by alternatives which ultimately prove to be hardly a punishment. I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u4	Minister, I know this has been a recurring issue for a few weeks. As a result of the war in Ukraine, many people are in a vulnerable situation and may suffer from exploitation mechanisms. In this context, it is healthy that there should be coordination between you, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Labour, particularly with regard to ONSS. Minister, can you tell me – in the major districts of Liège, Brussels and Antwerp – how many referent magistrates are in charge of economic exploitation and sexual exploitation, respectively? What arrangements exist within the public prosecutor's offices to deal with these phenomena, particularly in view of their future scale following the mass arrival of persons of Ukrainian origin or nationality in our territory? What cooperation has been established with the police, ONSS and possibly the Aliens Office to prevent such exploitation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u5	Minister, last week we asked questions on this subject, so I will not repeat myself. I asked a specific question about everything that had to do with reporting to the Ukrainian refugees and how that was checked for truthfulness. In that connection, you mentioned the federal prosecutors and the reference magistrates. Hence the question of economic and social exploitation. What is provided at the parquets in terms of staff? Will you bet extra on that? Do you have the necessary budget for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u6	Minister, I have been surfing a number of internet forums related to the stay of Ukrainian refugees in Belgium. Whoever does that can only be very alerted. In a few minutes I found a man who was looking for a Ukrainian woman within a specific age group and who promised to take care of the financial aspect of living together. I also found a woman who offered Ukrainian refugees to work in the garden of a friend for 5 euros an hour, who was pressured to respond. There was also a man who asks how he can receive a family and immediately offers a lady from this family a job in a nail salon or in the aesthetic sector. If I can find these very different cases by simple screening in a few minutes, there are undoubtedly many more. That is, of course, extremely disturbing. It goes without saying that much more would emerge if a specialised department were to deal with this. Have you already instructed, for example, the central services, the Human Trafficking cell or the internet trecherche of the federal judicial police to actively seek out online malicious approaches to Ukrainian refugees? What did this get you? How disturbing is the image? What's being done with it? In addition, there are also situations where Ukrainian refugees offer online services under the guise of volunteering, for example, in exchange for reception. Of course, these people are also particularly vulnerable. Will your services when they collide with such situations in the screening exercise, which also allow individuals to contact to verify that those persons are okay and to inform them of the possibility to register at the Heysel and the information from the awareness campaign? Will they at least ensure that this is done by other services by passing on the information? Is the social inspection already involved in the awareness campaign? Is there a clear point of contact there when, for example, a report is made about economic exploitation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, to answer Mr Aouasti's question and those of Mrs Bury, reference magistrates "trafficking in human beings" are indeed appointed in the public prosecutor's offices and auditorates in each district. Their respective organization varies according to the boroughs. It should be specified that the sections "trafficking in human beings" can be integrated into other sections within a prosecutor's office – for example, ECOFIN, organised crime, great banditry – or cover several districts. The figures are therefore provided only for information purposes and cannot be interpreted hastily. As far as the auditorates are concerned, there are four magistrates for Liège, three for Mons, four for Brussels, three for Ghent and three for Antwerp. As far as the parquets are concerned, there are five magistrates for the arrondissement of Liège, four for the arrondissement of Bergen, nine for the arrondissement of Brussels, five for the arrondissement of Ghent and five for the arrondissement of Antwerp. The investigations into trafficking in human beings are basically in the hands of the federal judicial police. In this context, we are currently considering the possibility of allocating resources to additional investigators for the trafficking of human beings and trafficking in human beings. In reply to Mr Aouasti's second and third questions, the situation in Ukraine was of particular concern. It was therefore decided to mobilize the relevant services in order not only to ensure prevention, but also a specific detection of the criminal risks associated with the presence in our territory of vulnerable people emerging from the conflict. In view of the specific nature of the matter, a watch sheet is made available to the magistrates who provide the guards during the weekend and/or nights. This tool enables them to optimally open a dossier on trafficking in human beings and to take all appropriate measures from the outset of the investigation. Criminal policy tools are also available to reference magistrates, namely COL.01/2015 and COL.05/2017. This circular focuses on collaboration between the various stakeholders. An essential tool of criminal policy to combat this phenomenon, it addresses issues in a multidisciplinary, comprehensive and practical way. Meetings within each district are also organised between magistrates and police officers and/or social inspectorate, in order to plan, monitor and define certain guidelines, particularly in view of the current situation. Of course, the issue is on the agenda. The coordination team of the Network of Expertise on Trafficking in Human Beings, as well as the Office of the Interdepartmental Coordination Unit for Combating Trafficking and Trafficking in Human Beings, which brings together the various partners, are also working to raise awareness among the various actors. To this end, various brochures and/or notes of attention have been disseminated, in particular to the attention of these reference magistrates. In addition, all units of the integrated police force and various partners, including the Office of Foreigners, organizations assisting victims of trafficking, the National Social Security Office and the Monitoring of Social Laws, were requested to pay particular attention to the phenomenon and to report to those units any indication of a suspicious situation. The Combating Human Trafficking and the Smuggling of Migrants Unit of DG SOC also monitors, under the auspices of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, all relevant information relating to possible incidents of trafficking in human beings, smuggling of migrants, economic and sexual exploitation or illegal adoptions involving Ukrainian refugees. Each report of any suspicious situation is taken seriously and is immediately subject to the necessary police and/or judicial follow-up under the direction of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and local prosecutors' offices. By means of a task force set up by myself a few weeks ago, from the beginning of the crisis, maximum efforts are also being made in the area of prevention. A communication campaign gives refugees as many points and contact persons as possible to whom they can report suspicious situations, and to whom they can turn to for reliable assistance. Unfortunately, it is feared that we will only be at the dawn of an unprecedented migration crisis. This requires an appropriate response. The measures in place will be evaluated, but I am confident that they will allow us to detect, monitor and respond to suspicious situations as soon as possible. I now answer Mr Segers' question. The question about online patrol is in line with my previous answer. The federal prosecutor has asked the Central Human Trafficking and Trafficking Service of the Federal Judicial Police, the DJSOC, to monitor the relevant information on possible facts of economic or sexual exploitation or any illegal adoption. The aim is to obtain a centralised overview of national and international operational information on this issue. This will then be transferred to the competent judicial authorities and the police units concerned. This mission shall be carried out in cooperation with, inter alia, the DJSOC/i2-IRU department. That's a service that's ordered to look for illegal elements on the Internet. This service also focuses its activities on the phenomenon of trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. When elements are discovered, they are automatically transferred to the relevant service and to the National Crisis Centre which provides national coordination. The Central Service of DJSOC and the other partners are aware of the potential threat posed by the current situation. Some worrying elements have already been found and passed on to the competent authorities for further follow-up. I can't elaborate on that in detail, but I know of at least one criminal investigation that was opened on the basis of online searches. The information will certainly be passed on to the social inspection services. As you know, the social inspection is also involved in the Sensitisation Task Force. There is, moreover, a direct line between the three centres and the social inspection. You can ask more questions about this to Minister Dermagne. After all, I know that he takes this dossier very much to heart, as we discussed it at last Sunday's nuclear cabinet meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u8	Madam Chair, I thank the Minister for his comprehensive and detailed responses. As for the number of magistrates, I read that there is still uncertainty as it is not known whether they are attached solely to the problem of trafficking or more generally to trafficking, the Ecofins or other things. These are elements that may need to be refined in the future. I hope that collaboration with other services will be good because what I have unfortunately heard this morning at the level of the interior is less reassuring than what I can now hear at the level of justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u9	Mr Minister, normally I do not ask detailed figures in an oral question, but in view of the urgency of the matter this time. I have the same comment as Mr Aouasti. Are they being used specifically for those cases or for multiple cases? I'll be sure to follow up further on whether you can provide additional support to the federal judicial police.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your vigilance. I am very pleased with the much-needed instructions you have given to actively look for disturbing situations on the internet as well. Fortunately, the war in Ukraine is causing a great wave of solidarity in our country. Most people are good, but some of them aren't, and they can cause a lot of damage. I am also pleased that the social inspection is now involved in the awareness campaign and thus also in the back office, the central hotline which may later become a general central hotline. If situations of possible economic exploitation are detected on the Internet, the social inspection can be referred to immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u11	Mr Minister, as you know, I am a member of the Commission devoted to Belgium's colonial past. In the report submitted by the experts of the said commission, he referred to the difficulty of accessing the so-called "African" archives for a number of reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u12	Madam President, Mr Delizée, the heart of the whole discussion on the services of the colonial security and the destination of their activity is not to know who is entitled. The most important thing is that the documents are physically located on the premises of the State Security Service and that the State Security Service and the Kingdom Archives Service agree that the documents should be transferred to the premises of the Kingdom Archives. This is essentially the way in which intelligence services must protect the information they process and the potential consequences for such protection. All archives relating to the colonial security services, as far as they are known, have been centralized at the Sûreté since 2015. However, the various funds followed a different path. In the course of 1962, following the decision of a Ministerial Committee, part of the archives of the security services of the former Belgian colony and the areas under mandate were assigned to the Sûreté. Another part was transferred by the then Ministry of African Affairs, just before its abolition, to the service of the General Archives of the Kingdom in 1960 where, after wandering in the depots in Brussels and Beveren-Waas, it was finally returned to Foreign Affairs. After consultation between the various parties, the Chairman of the then Foreign Affairs Steering Committee decided, in 2015, to transfer this party also to the State Security. Thus, the transfer of documents to the Sûreté took place with the consent of the competent political and administrative authorities in both 1962 and 2015. The Sûreté then undertook to make documents available to the Kingdom Archives as quickly and completely as possible, in accordance with the agreements in force within the intelligence community. Therefore, the whole discussion, from a broader perspective, will soon be moot. The memorandum of understanding, which will soon be concluded between the Sûreté and the General Archives of the Kingdom, provides for a complete transfer of all the documents in question. This really changes the situation in this area. The Sûreté hopes that the transfer will be completed in early June this year. Meanwhile, more than half of the fund has already been declassified and transferred to the Kingdom Archives. For the minority of documents for which interests still need to be protected, the Sûreté will develop, in consultation with the Archives, appropriate solutions in which a balance is sought between the interest of protecting the funds and their public accessibility. We are thinking of declassification by the competent partner service, but also of the protection of the identity of human sources in a public copy of a document or of consultation under the conditions laid down by the law on classification. As soon as the infrastructure is provided, the Kingdom Archives will not only be able to keep and provide access to classified documents of the colonial security services, but a solution will also be developed for the security archives itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u13	Minister, thank you. As you know, the special commission on the colonial past is very interested in issues relating to archives because they help to make the facts, events, etc. transparent. This Parliament has never asked so many questions about archives. But it must be noted that the time is right to do so. I take note of your replies, which will be taken into account in the work of the Special Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u14	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 55026529C is postponed because she cannot be present.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u15	Mrs. Van Peel is apologized.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u16	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u17	I also refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u18	Mrs. Rohonyi is not yet here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, we have had an exchange of views over the last few weeks on the problems, including those raised by Mr Segers. I can tell you that your legitimate concerns about vulnerable refugees from Ukraine, both women and minors, often not accompanied, certainly do not fall on a cold stone with me, quite the contrary. As far as the hotline is concerned, last week I stressed that I was in favour of it. The benefits are huge. We must not delay its creation, and I specifically asked for funds to be made available for this in the ongoing discussions on the budget conclave. At the same time, the initiative should also be in line with other existing initiatives. For example, both the psychosocial follow-up cell in Health and the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men want to be involved in the initiative. As far as the latter is concerned, this is mainly to be explicitly accessible to vulnerable women. That is what we are trying to take into account. Questions were asked about facts and possible abuses. Mrs Bury, I have no idea that vans would be used to pick up unaccompanied minors. Like you, I read the stories about Belgian citizens driving to the Polish border and taking refugees from Ukraine and receiving them at home. We are looking at this, and if there is trafficking in human beings, there will be legal action. As regards numbers, until 27 March 2022, 307 unaccompanied minors from Ukraine were reported and registered at the Voogdij Office. The DVZ figure is higher, because it may take a while before they are registered by DVZ with the Voogdij department. In the meantime, there may be even more unaccompanied minors, as there is some delay in the figures due to the high number of registrations. The Voogdij Service has so far appointed a guardian for 34 unaccompanied minors. The vast majority of the descriptions came from the registration centre. Meanwhile, there are 15 to 25 new descriptions per day, but that varies from day to day. In DVZ's general registration figures, however, we have seen a sharp decrease in the number of registrations since March 26th. The total delay in the appointment of a guardian is currently 735. Of them, about two hundred unaccompanied minors are still staying at an observation and orientation centre in Fedasil. The Voogdij department only appoints a guardian when they move to a shelter of phase 2. Given the large numbers, the Voogdij service cannot provide detailed figures on the family composition. Through DVZ we learn that about 90% is accompanied by a family member or an acquaintance of the parents. The Voogdij service is not competent for the reception of Ukrainian refugees. During a consultation with the cabinet of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, we have heard that the vast majority of unaccompanied minors are being received by relatives or friends in Belgium. Other questions about the shelter are best addressed to the Secretary of State. Through the FAQs that are regularly sent from DVZ, local authorities are informed about the procedure they must follow, if a minor offers to them Everyone, including minors, should register at the registration office in Brussels. If an unaccompanied minor still presents himself to the municipality without a certificate of temporary protection, he is asked to register in Brussels as soon as possible. Local authorities are also informed through the GemCom common communication platform. The Association of Cities and Municipalities (VVSG) and the Union des Villes et Communes de Wallonie also inform their members about the procedure to be followed. Communication to local authorities on Ukraine is carried out via DVZ and the National Crisis Centre for federal powers. The host families who report to the municipalities after the call of hahtagPlekVrij, according to the information from Fedasil, are not used for unaccompanied minors with a need for care only. They are placed directly in a foster family, which was screened by the competent youth assistance services. Until 29 March, 8 unaccompanied minors were involved. Further questions on reception can be put to the relevant ministers. In order to eliminate the backlog, the Voogdij department asked the guardians to take more custody. A large number of guardians responded positively, which is estimated to allow a short-term guardian to be appointed for a hundred unaccompanied minors. The service has also asked the associations with which it has concluded a protocol agreement to recruit more employee guardians. He also looks at opportunities for cooperation with other organisations. As I said last week, I want to strengthen the Voogdij service, not only by training and monitoring personal guardians, but also by additional recruitment of employee guardians through the association. I made that explicit during the ongoing budget check. I hope to have positive news in that regard. In addition, we take initiatives to better guide guardians, for example with a brand new handbook, the pressure of which is ready and will be distributed to guardians as soon as possible. We are also working on an e-platform for education and training sessions online. On the question of identification investigations, the Voogdij service is responsible for the identification of unaccompanied minors and the appointment of a guardian. If an unaccompanied minor arrives in Belgium with a mature brother, the Voogdij service will not check the family relationship. By definition, this is an unaccompanied minor. The Voogdij department will in any case appoint a guardian. The Voogdij department will start an identification investigation to determine who has parental authority. When a minor signs up with someone who claims to have custody, the Voogdij Department will thoroughly analyse it. So far, there have been five cases in which there have been doubts about parental bond or custody. No specific files have yet been notified to the Voogdij department, with a suspicion of trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for showing the necessary vigilance. The Ukraine crisis is making acute problems even more acute. Further action and follow-up will be needed, because we cannot accept the disappearance of one child, of any nationality, from the radar. I hear that the delay between now and 735 files, of which 307 concern Ukrainian unaccompanied minors, has increased considerably within a week. Apparently, the intention to appoint a guardian immediately, even if accompanied by a multi-year-old brother, makes a big difference, even though that measure has only been effectively implemented in 34 cases. I agree with you that we should not look at nationality, but should give priority to people in the most vulnerable situations. With regard to Ukrainian unaccompanied minors, the situation is very special. Normally unaccompanied minors are taken into custody in an observation centre, so that there is some external control. But Ukrainian young people are often caught in private circles, without anyone keeping an eye on them. For a good understanding, including in the observation centres, a guardian must be appointed immediately, something that is currently not feasible. I will follow up on the matter further.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I was surprised to hear you say that these unaccompanied minors do not end up with families of the hashtagFree campaign, but with already screened families, which is a satisfactory answer for me. As far as the identification investigation is concerned, you say that there have already been five cases of doubt and no suspicion of trafficking in human beings. I note that you are following up on the matter, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u22	Madam President, Minister, you will remember the Haouach case, the name of this lady who was appointed as a representative of the government by your colleague, Secretary of State Schlitz. A number of suspicions ensued, which may never have been established, of connection with the galaxy of the Muslim Brotherhood. As Vice-Chairman of the Committee's accompanying committee, I have asked the Committee to issue a report on the level of danger to the Muslim Brotherhood in our country. Last week, we received all the members of the R Committee who provided us with their report. We can draw from this report a number of positive points, but also a number of, if not negative, points which should lead us to continue the work in this area. As far as the positive points are concerned, it follows from the contacts made by the R Committee with the State Security, that it is working even more on the issue of the Muslim Brotherhood. As far as the negative points are concerned, a number of recommendations are made by the R Committee which "is of the opinion that it is for the Ministers of Justice and Defence to strengthen, with their colleague from the Interior, the cooperation between the intelligence services and their partners (Federal Police, OCAM), and to determine with the services the appropriate framework for cooperation, to clarify the level of the threat of the Muslim Brotherhood, to determine a strategy to combat the movement, to draw up a list of related movements, to ensure the capacity of the staff to monitor the problem". On the basis of these recommendations, which you have also received, I would like to hear from you about the action programme you wish to determine on this subject. The Muslim Brotherhood exists. As you know, we do not have the means to dissolve this association in Belgium. Proposals are also on the table to equip us with this tool. I look forward to your response to see how you, as Minister of Justice, will respond to the R Committee's requests and act more strongly on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u23	Mr Ducrame, I have received and read the report in question. The State Security already has an action plan and strategy to work proactively on this movement. In this context, awareness-raising efforts have already been carried out on several occasions and the preparation of a brochure for administrations and policies on the theme of the Muslim Brotherhood is in preparation, as has been done with regard to Salafism. It will be published at the end of the year. The positioning of countries varies greatly with regard to the movement of the Muslim Brotherhood. As indicated in the report of the R Committee, in some countries political parties claiming to be in the frerist movement are in the government or in the parliamentary opposition, for example in Turkey, Morocco, Algeria or Libya. In other countries, this movement is criminalized: in Egypt, Russia, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain. It is officially regarded as a terrorist organization. With the adoption of its anti-terrorist law on 8 July 2021, Austria was the first European country to ban the Muslim Brotherhood as an organization linked to religiously motivated crime. In Belgium, although mobility is not prohibited, attention is nevertheless being paid, as in other European countries such as the Netherlands, France and Germany. The intelligence and security services of these countries are always in the context of the Strategy on Terrorism and Extremism (Strat TER), as approved by the Consultation Committee in September last year. This Strat TER includes not only local task forces and integral security cells at the local level, but also working groups on terrorist or extremist phenomena. A consultation with Belgian partners, the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis (OCAM), the police and the General Intelligence and Security Service (SGRS), is planned to establish a common definition and approach and a level of threat associated with this mobility. As indicated in the report of the R Committee, the difficulty in circumscribing this mobility makes its study and in particular the analysis of its presence and power of influence in Belgium complex. It is also extremely difficult to determine an individual's membership in this group, as it does not have specific structures and does not distribute membership cards. The Sûreté is nevertheless working on it, but you will understand that it is not possible to communicate on ongoing investigations. With regard to the dissolution of such associations, I refer to the answers previously given in the Committee on Justice to similar questions. Many legal initiatives have already been taken in our country to outlaw groups, but the fact is that, so far, they still face the constitutional rights of association and assembly. This does not change the fact that I am open to a legal initiative that allows organizations that pose a danger to the State to be prohibited and that they are outlawed in full respect of the Constitution and the rule of law. This is only possible if we can clearly and narrowly define which organizations are considered dangerous to the State and for what reasons, and if we allow the judiciary to judge it. Moreover, I draw your attention to the fact that the dissolution of an association often results in the subsequent creation of a new association under a new name and sometimes in a less transparent or more difficult way to detect. If associations have extremist ideas, they are already followed by our intelligence services and if offences are committed, each member risks criminal prosecution on an individual basis. They're solid levers in our hands.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u24	Minister, thank you for your full answer. With regard to the part of action by the end of 2022 in relation to the Muslim Brotherhood, your answer confirms that you are going to put your action in the framework of the recommendations of the R Committee. It is important. We will probably have a report on this at Parliament level by the end of the year. I also hear your opening. It is remarkable that we can have in the head of a Minister of Justice an opening to the principle of disbanding dangerous organizations. Other European countries have this tool. This is the case with France, which recently dissolved the CCIF. This has already been discussed in Parliament since the CCIF has been reconstituted in Belgium under the name of the CCIB and we cannot dissolve it because we do not have the legal tool to do so. Indeed, a number of proposals are pending in the House. We need to reinvigorate the debate on this issue. I understand the need for the judiciary to act as part of this process. Indeed, I agree with you. It cannot, in my view, be a decision emanating from the executive. The rights and freedoms and the Constitution must be fully respected. We cannot, however, save this tool and deprive ourselves of it. I would like to highlight the openness of the Minister of Justice and therefore of the government to this approach that the MR Group will continue to move forward at the parliamentary level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u25	Madam President, if I have not been able to ask my question, I will reply. Minister, thank you for reminding us of your action plan and, in particular, that of the State Security. It is all the more reassuring that the strategy of the Muslim Brotherhood, and therefore the threat it poses to our democracy, has long been known. Already in 2020, a note from the analysis section against extremism that focused on the Muslim Brotherhood in Belgium referred to a "wider strategy of the Muslim Brotherhood, by which they try to influence public debate and policy-making". Your plan of action is therefore all the more important given that the recommendations made today in the State Security Report contain some previous recommendations, which we were already supposed to have transposed. I refer to the recommendations of the Attentats Commission, which was already talking about the need to strengthen cooperation between the intelligence services and their partners – the federal police and the OCAM. The idea was to implement an action plan on the issue of the Muslim Brotherhood in 2022, hence the urgency of having this plan in place today. I am therefore pleased that this is the case. Let us also recall the report on the appointment of Mrs Haouach as Commissioner of Government, who has since had to resign. It clearly stated that certain public functions require prior verification of integrity, loyalty and discretion. For this reason, the Standing Committee invited the government to take legislative initiatives with the relevant federal ministers for the first quadrimester of 2022. Today is the end of March 2022. The urgency of implementing these measures is therefore obvious. Like my colleague, I thank you for your open mind about the need to ban organisations when they use certain fundamental freedoms to attack the fundamental freedoms of others. Freedom of association or expression cannot be used to unblock what is the foundation of our rule of law. It is also prohibited by the European Convention on Human Rights, which prohibits abuse of rights. In my view, this is a work to which all the democrats in this House will have to work quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u26	Minister, at the beginning of this year, attorney general Delmull raised the alarm, not for the first time. Due to the lack of manpower in the Brussels federal judicial police, more choices should be made on which fraud cases are still being investigated and which are not. The specialised investigation services counted 103 more investigators in 2014. In September 2021 there were only 87. So to speak, so to speak. Since October last year, a committee has been carrying out a kind of triage. In doing so, financial and economic dossiers are scored according to priority, from 1 to 3. Score 1 means priority, 2 includes routine cases and the files with score 3 are no longer viewed. Tax and social fraud, fraudulent bankruptcies, payment card fraud, corruption cases, investigations into the hidden assets of convicted criminals, all these files fall under category 3. In the meantime, that committee has been saddening 290 cases. In February and March, half of the cases were scored 3. They are therefore left behind and the European research orders are not followed up in this way. Then we simply send a message to our allies that we cannot respond within a reasonable time because of a lack of investigators. Attorney General Delmull fears that we will end up in a scenario in which the files with score 2 will not even be examined. What actions have you taken since the Attorney General's emergency call? How many investigators are working at the Brussels specialist services today? Is such triage committees used elsewhere in the country? Does this only happen for economic and financial matters or in other areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Justice, we are all aware of the delicate or even deplorable state of the judicial organisation in this country at present: a lack of staff, an increasingly heavy workload and, therefore, a digital drop-out, an infrastructure of another age, at the limit of unsanitaryness. Admittedly, austerity is not your policy and you have repeatedly recalled it. But the facts are stubborn and, for the time being, the judiciary and its participants, those who animate it on a day-to-day basis, tighten their belts, willingly unwillingly. As such Brussels is, in a way, the tree that hides the forest. This is how the D system is used in our capital. I have learned that a weighting committee within the public prosecutor's office in the capital has been set up. The task of the Commission is to classify the files according to their priority or, more precisely, according to the limited means, the time that the judicial police can devote to them. The classification would range from 1 to 3 and the classification of a file in third place would mean its burial outright. Indeed, from the confession of the Prosecutor of the King of Brussels, although it is not a ranking without follow-up, a classification in category 3 actually results in a return to the bottom of the pile or a transfer to the local police. The latter is also being sought as a reinforcement of the judicial police, as I had already expressed my concern to your colleague from the interior. As a result, the judicial police also lacks resources. The prosecutor's office justifies the existence of this classification by explaining, I quote, to use the capacity of the judicial police in the most optimal way. Effectiveness in terms of means, certainly, but, given the ends, I really ask myself the question. Minister, pragmatism cannot be used as an excuse to hide a lack of resources. On the other hand, we know and do not doubt that this problem is at the top of your concerns. In view of the real situation today, however, we have to ask ourselves about the use of this D system – I quote the words used by the users themselves. My questions are: Is there a legal basis or a public decision by the authorities of the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office on the establishment of this weighting committee? Who are the people who make up this commission? What were these people selected for? How long does this commission last? Do we already know when it will be dissolved and on the basis of what criteria? What are the criteria for classifying files in Category 1, 2 or 3? Are these criteria public and can they be made public? Do you not fear that this will, if necessary, lead to a sense of impunity, evident in the perpetrators of smaller financial and economic crimes? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u28	Thank you for the many questions on this important issue. I'll answer in five parts. Firstly, the question of the Attorney General is indeed not new. As he pointed out in his Mercurial, he has for years denounced the lack of specialist investigators in this domain. There are two main reasons for this, given the current state of affairs. First of all, it's hard to find detectives with that profile. Vacancies remain open as a result. Secondly, the Sky ECC file places a huge mortgage on the capacity of the entire FGP. More than 700 out of 4000 investigators are working full-time on files linked to Sky ECC, of course with results. That's a good thing to say. Secondly, the current government has addressed this issue. I have mentioned this here several times in recent months, especially when I have been asked many questions about this mercurial. First of all, there are the additional investments made by this government, both in the area of justice and the police. These investments concern equipment and personnel, both on an ad hoc basis, in response to the needs of the Sky-ECC file, and in a structural manner. As far as justice is concerned, investments are planned to increase the number of Ecofin magistrates and magistrates responsible for the criminal enforcement investigation. Yesterday I gave the figures to Mr Aouasti during the discussion on the transposition of a 2019 directive into the Committee on Justice. Similarly, as far as the Federal Judicial Police is concerned, there is no disinvestment at present. You know that many positions have been declared vacant but we do not find enough candidates. Since the end of 2020, more than 800 posts have been declared vacant. These efforts have strengthened the Federal Judicial Police with nearly 200 full-time commitments, but again the results are insufficient in the Ecofin and Ecofisc areas. Fourthly, we are in the process of creating a legal framework with the Minister of Finance, who will appoint additional tax officers to cooperate with the police and the judiciary in the joint investigation teams called MOTEM in order to combat financial fraud in the context of organised crime. I refer to the statements of Attorney General Delmulle in De Tijd and Procurator of the King De Wolf in Le Soir in which they state that Justice also made choices before. In other words, it is not new that not everything is being prosecuted. Should, for example, any civil-party complaint to the investigating court be essentially freed from civil-law disputes and police capacity? The question is not new, but now the choice is made according to a clear model. This has the advantage of clarity and transparency, including with regard to police services. Making choices is based on principles of detective management, a relatively new concept within the FGP, and is done after assessment by a weighting committee. By the way, that weighting committee is not a Belgian invention. We have taken this idea from the Netherlands, where it has existed for years. Priorities are also set in the Netherlands. Fighting crime is making choices. I shall return to my first point, and I assume that no one in the committee will say that we should stop with the Ski ECC dossier. However, I am well aware that this is not the end of the story. Attorney General Delmull talks about a deteriorating situation and there is certainly a lower limit that we should not go under. Which brings me to my fourth point. We must continue to invest in the PJF. Together with the Minister of the Interior, we have already made concrete proposals and asked the Commissioner-General for concrete commitments several months ago on how to make the PJF more attractive, on training courses adapted for specialist profiles. Many of these commitments have been met. The fleet will be radically renewed from this year on. It was high time. It will be invested more in technical and technological equipment adapted to the highly specialized service dealing with data and information interception. Sky ECC has shown how important this is. We have the guarantee that all those who leave the PJF will be replaced. These are some examples. But I am still waiting for a concrete plan to recruit 195 specialized investigators. They will be employees hired by lateral recruitment, to which we will have to offer a training program and an attractive status. Finally, I would like to give some punctual answers to a number of detailed questions, in particular about the investigation management and the weighting. Each file will be classified among one of the five national priority categories used within the General Executive Board of the FGP judicial police. These national parameters will be complemented by a number of local parameters such as the impact of the facts on Brussels, the link with the phenomenon of drugs in Brussels or the presence of certain sub-parameters. Once the national and local parameters have been determined, they will be converted into a score that sets a priority level of 1 to 3. The lowest level will have the consequence that the investigation will not be conducted by the specialised FGP Brussels. A legal basis for investigative management at the level of the resort and the arrondissement is Article 146a of the Civil Code and Article 26 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In Brussels, the weighting committee is currently used only in the above-mentioned context of financial, fiscal, economic and social offences. In other districts, the Federal Judicial Police (PJF) and the Public Prosecutors'Offices also set priorities. The method used and details cannot be provided within the time frame, as the questions were tabled yesterday just before 11:00 a.m. The requested strengthening of the Brussels local police is part of the general strengthening of the Brussels PJF, following the Sky dossier, as well as in Antwerp, and the numerous criminal investigations resulting therefrom. This is not directly related to the management of the research discussed here. The weighting committee is composed of the Chiefs of Staff, Senior Officers, the Federal Judicial Police of Brussels, the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office, the Brussels Labour Auditorate, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office. When the cases of the European Public Prosecutor's Office under investigation by members of the Brussels PJF's DR4 and DR5 will be discussed at the meeting of the weighting committee, a delegated European Public Prosecutor will also participate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u29	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. I understand that the Sky ECC case involves almost a quarter of the Federal Judicial Police. Therefore, this implies a prioritization of priorities, which, as you rightly said, is not new. But I still think that this prioritisation should be avoided especially when talking about organised crime cases. This was recently recalled by the Attorney General, Mr. Delmulle. As he fears, even classified 2 investigations, i.e. those cases for which there is a perceived likelihood of success, may no longer be possible, or at least not within a reasonable period of time. It would therefore be terrible because if these surveys were not to succeed, it would represent a real loss of profits for the State, which is particularly serious in this period of crisis when energy and food prices rise, where we must find actions to support the purchasing power of our citizens! But it is also terrible because it feeds this crisis of trust in our justice, which is seen by some as class justice. The other consequence is that this could undermine the work of local police areas. We saw him again last week: the Brussels Federal Judicial Police asked the corps chiefs for a reinforcement of investigators in order to be able to follow the cases of great banditry. We can see that the local police areas are again in difficulty. I understand that measures are in place for recruitment, technical equipment, etc., but I would have liked to have more details, if only for the 195 specialized detectives you mentioned. How will this be done? With what date of entry into office? How many of them will be mobilized for Ecofin cases etc.- Is that what you're saying? So I am still hungry despite some of your detailed answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u30	Minister, I would have preferred a different kind of answer, as probably everyone would have liked. I know that the Sky ECC file requires a lot of work and that a lot of people are working on it, but it is because of Sky ECC that there are no places in prisons and that files need to be tried. Certain commitments have been made. You have always said that you would invest and provide more staff and capacity. We notice that the situation is not really improving but is even deteriorating. That is certainly not a favorable evolution, even though I want to understand that it is not easy to find certain profiles. Meanwhile, it is often the local police forces who try to fill the gaps, with all the consequences for them. You say that justice has always made choices and that there is now a clear model. Tax fraud, social fraud, bankruptcy fraud, payment card fraud, the investigation of the hidden assets of convicted criminals are all covered by Category 3 files that do nothing about it. Follow the money we read in your policy paper, you would hunt down the hidden assets of criminals. That would be a win, because you may be able to do something with that money, but they are not even looking for it anymore. There's an urgent need to step up. Not only do you not keep your promises, you create some sort of impunity. This feeling of impunity, in turn, creates a tremendously damaging effect on the relapse rates. After all, why should these criminal acts no longer be committed if people feel impunity? That's the problem. For example, confidence in the justice system is falling again and again, more and more.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is therefore not new that the prosecutor's office works in the most efficient way possible and that it sets priorities, given the decrease in resources. In addition, few vocations are expressed to work in the public prosecutor's offices. This is a very worrying aspect because it has already existed for some time and it must be noted that we are not able to change the course. There is clearly a difficulty in attracting profiles into the public prosecutor's offices. Whether it is for financial reasons or for the organisation of work in general, I really believe that it will be necessary to discover this mystery and to determine why he lacks arms – if I can say so – in the prosecutors' offices in this country to prosecute the offences. I come to the question of infringements and the idea put forward by the committee, which comes from the Netherlands. It is, in my opinion, issued, within the public prosecutor's offices, by people who have a lot of experience and who are able to set priorities by weighting them. But systematically abandoning, in a category called category 3, a series of offences that can have important ramifications, which can, beyond the economic consequences if they are not pursued, provide additional means to the State and remind the norm, is, in my view, a problem. I would like you to give us further written explanations. Of course, the question was tabled yesterday, but before 11 a.m., which is no problem since all committees can be fed with questions tabled the previous day before 11 a.m. In any case, if you have more detailed and detailed explanations, we are asking for them, and we will certainly return according to the information you have given us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u32	Mr Minister, the alarm bell at the Public Prosecutor's Office has a lot of work to do, because the federal prosecutor has also written to you a letter calling the alarm bell. He did that a year ago, but apparently there is not enough improvement. It concerns the enormous delay in the court of assistants in Brussels, which puts the trial in cases of serious violations of international humanitarian law on a very long track. For example, there are the files Rwanda 6 and Rwanda 7, which were already referred by the AI to the Court of Assists by the end of 2018. The start of the assistance process for Rwanda 6 has already been postponed several times and is now foreseen for the second half of the legal year 2022-2023. For Rwanda 7 no date has even been set yet. In addition, there are at least six other cases of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes that will be completed in the coming years and may be referred to the Court of Assists. The federal prosecutor warns of a catastrophe if measures are not taken quickly. If there is no structural solution, our country risks becoming a sanctuary for perpetrators of genocide and war crimes. Some say that Brussels is already a hellhole, but I think that we should avoid it. Minister, what will you do to resolve the alarm call of the federal prosecutor in the short term? Without trial within a reasonable time, the rule of law will be compromised. How will you achieve a structural reduction in the legal backlog? The axle procedure provides a high workload. We will soon be confronted with it in the case of the attacks. I would therefore like to ask whether you are considering abolishing the Court of Assists, so that the scarce resources can be used more efficiently.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u33	Mrs De Wit, I am of course aware of the difficulties at the Brussels appeal court, and one of them is indeed the treatment of the so-called mega files, to which Rwanda processes belong. It is good that you regularly ask me questions about the state of the court of appeal. We are doing everything we can, but we must also take account of the legal and even constitutional limitations on the possibilities for a minister. The organisation of plenary sessions, the definition of the agenda, the determination of the time when the case is to be dealt with at which meeting, are within the competence of the Chiefs of Staff, in this case the first chairman. In view of the separation of powers, I cannot intervene in this respect. In reply to your second question, we await, as you know, the audit of the Supreme Court of Justice. Measures have already been taken in anticipation. For example, a temporary framework was created for the Brussels court to deal with the process of the attacks and a budget was also allocated to recruit additional magistrates and legal staff. Two clerks, nine administrative experts and seven assistants have already been recruited. The procedures for counsel are still ongoing. You know they take a little longer. As soon as we receive the audit from the Supreme Court of Justice, we will consider how we can implement the recommendations. On the last point, you know that we do not currently have a two-thirds majority in this House to abolish the assistance procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u34	Minister, it is good that you acknowledge that there is a problem. I do think it is a little easy to say that the organisation of the meetings is for the Chief Constable and you do not have much to do with that. We know what the reasons are, there is the shortage of staff on the one hand and the backlog on the other. In your position, however, you are in the cockpit to do something about it. So I think that's a rather easy answer. As far as the abolition of assists is concerned, you should know that I have always been charmed by assists out of intrinsic interest. That's a wonderful procedure. At some point, however, it is time to be realistic, including in this House and also within the Vivaldimpere majority. We must realise that certain things are really not of this time anymore. Given the intensity, the workload and the high costs involved, which leave other things to lie, this is the time to say that it was charming but that it has been good now. Even I am saying that at the moment, Minister. We cannot justify assists anymore, especially because we know what is coming to us, namely the case of the attacks. I think it is an irresponsible attitude of this majority that it does not want to go along with it and that it wants to take such a risk for that process, which will be aimed at Belgium. I don't understand. The procedure can still be so charmed and so much can still be loved for oral debates. I'm doing the same thing. It shouldn't be thrown away, but occasionally the realist has to come up. I think it's a missed chance that this doesn't happen now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic751x.u35	Debates of the European Parliament 55026529C by Mrs Jadin will be converted into a written question and not postponed as mentioned earlier.
