ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u2	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: 2330: Vicky Reynaert, Malik Ben Accour. - 1939: Theo Francken, Darya Safai, Peter Buysrogge.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u3	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2330/7) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (2330/7) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u4	Madam President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u5	Madam President, football is a popular festival like no other, and it makes the internal contradictions forget. It collects a country for a few weeks behind the screen in the living room, at café or in the village square. The romance hasn't disappeared yet, but it's starting to fade for many. Exorbitant transfer amounts, expensive stages and even more expensive tickets, as well as foreign sponsors with important motives cast an increasingly heavy strain on the blazing of sport. This is also the case with the high mass of football, the World Championship that will be played in Qatar in December. The World Championship was organized by corruption. The championship has a megalomaniac size and a hideous ecological footprint. The stages and infrastructure were built on the backs of a slave army. It has taken a huge toll of human life. When we see the brand new football temples rising where our boys have to play on cooled lawns in winter in the scorching heat, the word perverse comes into mind. That feeling only gets stronger when we think of the human price paid by the dozens of infrastructure projects that must make the oil sheik's dream possible. It is one of the largest vanita projects in recent human history. The grim average of 12 migrant workers per week who will never return to their homeland and see their families again is a shocking statistic. It cannot be forgotten, despite all the improvements made under pressure from public opinion, such as the lifting of the kafala system. Sportswashing is part of Qatar's diplomatic strategy, with which it wants to win recognition and earn respect. Therefore, in 2021 alone, it was able to place 30 international sports events on its calendar and manage an extensive portfolio of purchased or sponsored western footballers. With the World Cup Football, the country now has another asset in its hands, which is sure that despite all the aversion and protests against the revelations, millions of fans worldwide will watch as their team enters the turf. We must by no means seek to politicise football and destroy the blinding effect of sport by forcing citizens, athletes and businesses to set higher moral standards than politics itself. The responsibility for the organisation and the abuse associated with it does not lie with the citizen. Participation in the World Cup must remain at all times a moral choice made by players and athletes themselves, free of charge. In that our vision differs from that of the other draft that is being put to the vote today. Another difference is that we should not take action in the future, but should act already, by hitting the Qatari government where it hurts: not in its portfolio, but in the prestige it so much desires. Therefore, the government, the prince and members of the royal family must remain absent at the opening and closing ceremony and at the competitions of the Red Devils. We can be brief on Mrs Reynaert's resolution. Many ideas are not unneged. Certainly in the amended form, many of the sharp edges have disappeared, which clearly state the intention, without exceedingly affecting citizens and businesses. Nevertheless, we remain concerned about the stronger government interference on the one hand and, on the other hand, the lack of respect for the division of powers in this country and the creeping refederalisation, despite the good intentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u6	Will we try to respect a five-minute speaking time, as last week? If everyone agrees, I suggest that you observe five minutes of speaking time for the motions for resolutions, as we did last week. I think this is a good compromise at this time of the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u7	Madam President, I do not know exactly what the intention is. Is there a time limit? What's the reason for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u8	Last week we had reached an agreement in the Conference of Presidents on speaking time. I have just asked whether this could be the case now, and I thought that everyone agreed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u9	We do not agree with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u10	Madam President, my speech should take about five minutes. Colleagues, in six months' time, the World Cup will start in Qatar under the watchful eye of human rights defenders. Major sporting events are sometimes held in countries where these rights are not always respected and where labour law is often flouted or non-existent. In these large-scale projects, working conditions are sometimes close to slavery. In its latest report, the International Labour Organization reported 50 deaths at construction sites in Qatar. Amnesty International reports 6,500 deaths. Thanks to this text, we have been able to hear the International Labour Organization, trade unions and Amnesty International who have pointed out to us that, beyond calling for boycott, we should, as we suggested in our text, prevent rather than heal, in other words, use the allocation of major sporting events as a lever to improve concretely the situation on the ground. Of course, we would like to thank the experts who have been heard in committee very warmly. This morning, our national coach, Roberto Martinez, also spoke in the press about this. According to him, we have indeed a great opportunity to deliver a message through football. I quote: "Distorting the look of a problem by calling for boycott is not an act of courage; the courage is to be convinced that we can be at the root of a change in society." I would never have imagined quoting Roberto Martinez in this Parliament, but in this case he has perfectly summarized the philosophy of our text. Indeed, the fundamental question is how a major sporting event can serve as a lever for advancing the cause of respect for human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u11	Mr Ben Accour, I have one comment to make. I have also read what Mr Martinez said. I have to say, I'm having a bit of a hard time with the Red Devils' attitude in the file. I understand that the Red Devils have been on the right knee with the left fist up for some time now, following death, for all intents and purposes, regrettable by George Floyd. They continue to do so, they support it 100%, they show that they are fighting discrimination, racism and inequality. In doing so, they are proclaiming a political agenda for a piece. I don't have a problem with that, that's their choice. In some time, the Red Devils will go to Qatar, a country where women simply have no rights. In Qatar, homosexuality is, we discussed here a moment ago blood donations from lgbtqi community, nonexistent, it is forbidden and prosecuted with the death penalty. Thousands of workers were killed in the construction of the football stadiums. Thousands of construction workers from Bangladesh, Indonesia and Vietnam died during the construction under the scorching heat, up to 60 degrees, in full sun. Apparently, that country will do. U zegt: I agree perfectly with Mr. Martinez. If one still fights with the knee on the ground and the left fist up for George Floyd, why not fight for the dead Bengales? Why not fight for all those victims of racism, real discrimination? I wonder why that is apparently not a problem. Personally, I find it rather cheap to raise the left fist everywhere and when it comes to wearing just a T-shirt that says change. What does that mean, change? That aside, the resolution we tabled is not even about those footballers. For me, those footballers are free to go. It's a sporting event. Qatar was chosen as a organising country and we now know how that happened, namely purely through corruption; that was proven. We distance ourselves from that. The World Championship will take place. Soccer's a party, isn't it? However, I do not think there can be political representation. What I understood from the debates I could not, unfortunately, be there because of circumstances, but the colleagues in our group have followed it. That is a good thing. I did find it strange, Mr Martinez, that you were saying about Mr Martinez's signal: 'Je suis parfaitement d'accord'. Which signal is correct? I personally didn't think that signal was that powerful. That is why once again the question is: what are you doing with the 'parfaitement d'accord'? Or did I misunderstand?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u12	Madam President, when I hear Mr Franken, I find it a little hard to take the Red Devils hostage in this debate to be a good thing. In fact, when they make this gesture that you described, Mr. Franken, the Red Devils make a gesture of universalism, of humanism against racism in general. Here we are debating a resolution on the criteria for a global sporting event and it is not the Red Devils - unless I am wrong, in which case you will contradict me - who decided that the World Cup would take place in Qatar. Not at all! I think this is a lawsuit they don't deserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u13	Madam President, I would like to reply to Mr Franken by saying first of all that it is a pity that he was unable to attend the hearings that took place within the framework of this text, because these hearings have shown us perfectly in reality what has been the development of Qatar since the World Cup was awarded until today. This is what we need to be interested in because the question we are asking is indeed about the potential impact of the organisation of a major sporting event, or non-sports event, on the development of a country in terms of human rights and labour law. Situations are contrasting depending on whether we speak of China, Russia, Brazil, Qatar or other countries. But, in any case, what is clear and explicit from the hearings that we have organised is that, from a situation that was mediocre, not to say catastrophic, in 2010 in Qatar, there was from 2016-2017 - it is the International Labour Organization (ILO) that says so, as well as the trade unions - a shift in reforms that have been carried out at a very sustained pace and which now make Qatar a leading country in the region. Again, I'm just repeating what the ILO said. So if you want to compare Qatar's progression curve with that of Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Israel and other major countries in the region, it appears from the hearings that, thanks to the World Cup award, Qatar has made a qualitative leap in terms of human rights, labour law, etc. Does that mean there's nothing left to do? Certainly not! There is still much progress to be made, but the overall trend is towards improvement. That is precisely what we aim for through our text.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u14	I also find it extremely regrettable, but I really could not be here. I have also apologized to the President well in advance. I really try to be present at such initiatives, because I am interested in them. We also saw during the Russian invasion of Ukraine that the Winter Olympic Games had ended before they invaded. You noticed that, didn't you? Since November, the Russians have been building a military structure with hundreds of thousands of troops on the Russian border. A lot of people thought it was just practice. I've been told to stop talking about the American shit. Putin actually means well, he's just doing a little exercise. Meanwhile, he was bringing tanks and large artillery pieces from Siberia to the border that are now doing their service every day to the benefit of Russia. Russia agreed to do that with China. Xi Jinping had asked Russia not to start the war before the Olympic Winter Games in Beijing were completed. That's what happened. That's not a coincidence. Sports washing exists. I am not a member of a party that wants to be the great moral conscience of the world, we do not have that ambition. I think we'd better be modest and start with ourselves. That is a good principle, with which one already comes an end in life. I'm not here to make the Red Devils process. I also read Martinez's interview this morning. That triggers me, as I have tabled a resolution on this matter. I'm also inclined to say: "Je suis parfaitement d.J. I honestly think Qatar is not on the right track at all when it comes to women's rights and the interpretation of Islam. Not at all. I cannot judge enough about labour rights. You say that according to the International Labour Organization it is moving in the right direction. I'd like to assume that. Apparently, that also came up in the hearing. However, it is about the organisation of the state in Qatar. They continue to finance jihadism, radical Islam. With women's rights and Igbtqi rights in Qatar, it is still as dramatic as it was a year, two years or five years ago. Because they have an unlikely amount of money, they try to buy a nice face, not measure it. I can't call it any other way. Corruption has brought them into the World Cup. That's proven. Now they mainly try to ensure that all players and all teams come, especially the Red Devils, one of the best teams in the world. When someone says something about it, he or she immediately receives the reproach of being against the Red Devils. That is absurd and intellectually completely unfair. For the record, I'm not against the Red Devils. You did not say that either, but I noticed when I tabled the resolution that it was going to be a very exciting debate, in particular the statement that we would be against the Red Devils. That's a complete intellectual idiot. It is about how we deal with a World Cup organized in a country that applies very controversial practices. That's a tough case. We must not want to be a moral conscience, but we must have a strong debate on this. I'm glad we're doing that today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u15	Madam President, Mr Francken, I would like to respond. I happen to have met the female Minister of Qatar here in Parliament yesterday. She exists. That's only recent, so there's progress. I just wanted to clarify that. A distinction should be made between countries such as China, Rwanda and Qatar, for example. When talking to China or Rwanda about human rights, they do not recognise that there is a problem. That's a statement. Others should not interfere in their affairs. The violation of human rights would not exist among them. The others are welcome to come and see. That is a big difference with Qatar, where it is clearly acknowledged that there was a problem with the Kafala system, which the country has given up, and with women's rights. The country has recognised that it must move forward and that the women's custody system does not look like anything. It's impossible for women to ask permission to work. They want to abolish it, but there are still employers who apply it. How long did it take us to change? The beginning is to acknowledge the problem. With regard to countries that recognise their problem, the ILO has also made it clear to the trade union, where Luc Cortebeeck has witnessed, that progress is being made. Should we reject it at such a time, because we believe that there is not enough effort to be made? Such a sporting event can also ensure that human rights and women's rights can be highlighted and that it is indicated that certain things cannot be done. Of course, I think prevention is better than cure. We should not have allocated that World Cup to Qatar. There was corruption. With this resolution, we say very clearly that sport organisations must include human rights in the award. That hasn't happened to Qatar now. However, we cannot say that we are not going to Qatar. It was a good signal from the Belgian sponsors to say that they are not going there. The question is who is to be delegated. Of course, I wouldn't go myself. That is not the point, however. The point is that Qatar has made progress and that progress must be recognised. If we're gonna sanction negative, we're not gonna get anywhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u16	Madam President, I would like to go back to the beginning, which is why we tabled this resolution. The Guardian reported on the death of 6,500 migrant workers. Immediately there were political votes to boycott the World Cup. We then contacted the organisations that are present on the ground: the ILO, the trade unions, Amnesty International, but also BESIX, the Belgian company that is building stadiums. We've asked them to give us more information. They all said that our indignation is a little late. They knew what would happen in 2010, didn't they? They knew that award was corrupt. They have protested against it. They have tried to draw attention to this, which is not enough. They stated that they are working on this in the field to improve it. They say that now, a year before the World Cup, they're going to boycott the World Cup, they're going to undermine their work. They asked to be heard in Parliament. We did that, we listened to them. They have come to explain very clearly the work they have already done. They asked to support them so that they could continue that work, so that the ILO could still be there after the World Cup. That is the essence of the message. That is why we have tabled this resolution. The second part deals with the issue of allocation. That's gotta be done a lot sooner. After all, there are still examples. The World Cycling Championships in 2025 will be awarded to Rwanda. FIFA plans to award the World Football Championship to Israel in 2030. Then the question is: is that a form of sports washing? Is there going to be a resolution for a boycott? I think we should have that discussion in advance. That is why we are submitting a text asking for the standards to be written down in documents, which can then be used in the event of a grant. That is the reason for our resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u17	I must say that the comparison with Rwanda and Israel has been made easy. I propose that we compare the number of Israeli women going to football or cycling with the number of Qatari women at the stadium in December. I propose that we compare the number of Saudi women or the number of Iranian women in the stadium with the number of Rwandan women. I'm not a woman, you're a woman, but well, we're fighting for the same thing, I mean. The number of Israeli women who are going to watch the cycling event, of course, remains to be seen. Apparently, I didn't get it all right. Apparently, I'm getting too cynical and I don't really believe in the incredible changes for the better there are in the field. I also talked to Besix. It's true, there were no deaths there. That's obvious. But Besix didn't build all the football stadiums. I think it built two or three. A number of things have happened there. I think there should be a political boycott. I would be very sorry if a minister of the Belgian Government were to be there. Or a minister of the Flemish government, or another government. In fact, I find that problematic. I think one can perfectly support our team without being physically present. That's my personal opinion on that. Again, just the way that World Cup has been allocated, I do not find obvious. I believe that some of us are saying the same thing. However, I believe that we are different as to whether Qatar is doing well and whether it is going in the right direction. I'm a little more sceptical about that than some other people. Which doesn't mean I don't get those people, too. I'm going to those receptions, too, Mrs. Van Hoof. There will be someone there, a woman or a minister, from the government. I was in Guinea at some point, as Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. Guinea is the country with the most genital mutilation in the world. In no other country is there so many girls genitally mutilated as in Guinea. I was there at the National Council, with the minister against genital mutilation and the Minister of Justice. They promised, as they do every three months when there is a delegation from the World Bank, the United Nations, another international organisation or a bilateral contact like me, to do something about genital mutilation. That was seven years ago. The figures show that it's gotten worse. All the talk people hear there, all the engagements and promises... My only question to their Minister of Justice was: how come 50% to 70% of young girls are being mutilated and no one has been convicted of it in the past year? After all, they have passed a very strict law, which the World Bank had to do, or they have not received any more money. They've approved that in their parliament, but since then, no offender has been convicted. I asked why no one was convicted even though everyone said they were against it. The answer was they were working on it. Because I see that in Belgium girls and women are still recognised as refugees because of genital mutilation practices in Guinea, I have looked up the figures. They've gotten worse! I may not have become cynical, but skeptical.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u18	I want to tell you something very important. I am actually one of those women who are excluded in Qatar or Iran or anywhere else, are forbidden from entering a stadium. I will tell you about the progress that you think is going on: that is totally wrong, it is not on the right track. I have fought for six years in Belgium for Iranian women's right to enter a stadium. Worldwide, I've traveled to acquire that right. That's not going so well. Nothing's improved. I have great respect for Mrs Van Hoof and for you, ladies and gentlemen, who are fighting for women's rights and human rights. Let me tell you something. We think people on the other side of the world are happy with nothing. However, that is not the case. They want to be like us and fight hard for that, but it's not going any better. We must stop by looking at our pink glasses and thinking that it will be better if we award certain countries a World Cup or something like that. It is important to know that there has not been much improvement in Iran after 45 years. However, the situation in Iran is even better than the situation in Qatar, Saudi Arabia or other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u19	I would just like to point out that no one has said that there is no problem with women's rights. The organisations' question was whether they could go on the ground to support the work on human rights. The Royal Belgian Football Association also discussed women's rights and the Igbtqi+ community in the intervention. That was a question. Secondly, I am surprised at the way in which the debate is taking place. Human rights here are becoming women's rights. However, there are also rights of minority groups and labour rights. For example, Mr Francken says that there is no problem with women's rights in Israel. There may be a problem with rights for other groups of people such as the Palestinians. The concept of human rights is very broad, so the debate cannot simply be enjoined in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u20	Madam President, I would like to respond to what has been said by the benches opposite, before taking up the thread of my presentation. Mrs Van Hoof said something important. On the one hand, we are dealing with States that receive the organisation of major sporting or non-sporting events and which, with regard to human rights, are in denial. On the other hand, as far as Qatar is concerned, whatever you think of it, whatever your ideological eyes require you to think, there is an awareness. Qataris say today: "Yes, we had problems. We see it, we admit it. We were in trouble. In relation to this, we need to make progress." Whatever you think of it, they have embarked on a path of progress that is imperfect, which is still insufficient, which is clearly unturned but the trajectory is there. The fundamental question that arises in the way the debate is being organised is: are major international events necessarily reserved for liberal or supposed liberal democracies? When I say such, I think of what happened on the margins of the Champions League final and the police violence that British supporters had to endure. Or is it considered that what matters is the ability, through sporting events, to engage in structural, sustainable reforms that can lead to concrete progress? With this text, we make the bet on the second option. What we want is that sporting events wherever they are organised are indeed used to make a real difference. On the question of boycott, in the case of the 2022 World Cup - and again, it is not we who say it, it is the trade union organisations - a boycott would mean saying: "Whatever you do, whatever reforms you undertake, it will not change anything for us. We will continue to consider you out of a human rights club, out of a democracy club." This is a negative message, because it would discourage all States that wish to engage in reforms to do so. In the end, it would be a completely counterproductive message. On the issue of women, I am not going to repeat what my colleague said. She's absolutely right. I'm still going to point out that you wouldn't be shocked if a country like Italy could organise a great sporting competition. However, in the northern Curva de la Lazio de Rome, women are prohibited. In a large European capital, in the Curva Nord de la Lazio, among the irriducability, which are rather neo-Nazi fans, women are not allowed. Know it! As for Israel, that has also been said, with regard to human rights violations, it is a country that no longer has any lessons to teach anyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u21	Again, you're throwing a lot of crap at me. Firstly, I am not so blinded by my ideology that I am not ready in reality and have tabled this resolution. It doesn't bother me. I'm trying to be a free thinker. In the role I play within the party, that's something I'm entitled to. You're saying they weren't allowed in Italy either. Well, then I find that scandalous, too. Did I make that right? Not at all. I didn't know, it's the first thing I hear about it. If, however, that is the case, then I find it scandalous. Sue me for that. However, if you say that by organising the World Cup there we are going to ensure that the situation in Qatar improves, that is an interpretation of you, but I do not believe in that. Do you really think that fewer Uighurs are being deported now because we have organized the Olympics in China? Do you really think that human rights in China are better now, that women's rights, Igbtqia, minorities, and do I know much better now because we sent our athletes there? Finally, I think the comparison with Israel is simply completely aberrant. Anyway, that's my opinion. I do have one more question, namely whether your group supports a political boycott of the World Cup in Qatar. Do you think our ministers, our prime minister and our king should be present in a stadium where no women are allowed in? What do you think of that? You are always the great defender of human rights, the great defender of minority rights, the great defender of the European Convention on Human Rights and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. That is at the heart of your ideology. Of mine, by the way, let's be clear. Do you think Prime Minister De Croo, Deputy Prime Minister Dermagne or any other minister should go there in December? Do you think Mr. Di Rupo should be in the stadium or not? What do you actually think of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u22	Mr. Franken, you asked me two questions. In any case, you rightly pointed out that the organisation of the Games in China has not changed anything in terms of human rights. You're right. I am not telling you (...) Yes, in Russia, you are right! The organisation of the Games in Beijing has not changed the situation of the Uighurs. You're right. No one here asserts that the organisation of a major sporting competition automatically and necessarily implies progress in the fields of human rights, social law, labour law, etc. No. On the other hand, it can trigger a virtuous dynamic in this field. So it's not automatic - as China and Russia testify - but it can happen, cf. Qatar, obviously. As for the question of boycott, you will understand that the philosophy of this text is to say: "We will be more effective in undertaking solid reforms on matters that concern us if we open a dialogue through the alibi of an international sports competition than by deciding on a boycott that will please us, since we can complacent ourselves in a position of purity, but without it changing anything on the ground." It's the results that matter. It is therefore a form of pragmatism, which brings concrete solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u23	I take note of your position. You believe that the Belgian Government can be perfectly present and Mr De Croo will probably be present at the opening match of the Red Devils. It is your right to find that, but I am very glad that the Flemish Government will not be present, that it will not participate. If you were in the opposition and Prime Minister Michel were going to such a World Cup, you would have serious reservations and questions about it in plenary. I take note of the realistic realpolitik vision of the PS in the field of human rights, which is interesting. So it is no problem for the PS if, for example, Mr Dermagne is present at the Red Devils' game in a stadium where women are not welcome?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u24	Mr Franken, you know how capitalism is structured in states such as Saudi Arabia, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates or Bahrain. It is structured, inter alia, by sovereign wealth funds. They have so much money that they can capitalize public funds to make direct investments in a range of industrial sectors, including the energy sector. On the basis of your criteria, are you going to consider tomorrow that all economic flows through the port of Antwerp or through the Brussels-National airport must be stopped because these flows depend on interests owned directly by those states with which you have a number of problems? You have to be consistent and know how far you push your reasoning. Madam President, for the rest, it is fair that Mr Franken can reply to me. I will not reply to his reply and I would like Mr. Ben Achour can finish his speech, otherwise we will still spend hours there.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u25	Madam President, thank you very much, Mr Laaouej. I am also pleased that the leader of the Group of the Party of European Socialists is interfering, because it is an interesting debate. For the question of how to deal with it, I do not have a perfect solution. What I have tried to do is to table a resolution after a lot of internal debate in the party. Of course you're talking about economic interests. That is what we are thinking of, of course. They are big, especially when it comes to countries with so much money, so much influence and so much capital. I have two observations. Firstly, my resolution is not about an economic boycott. My resolution is specifically about a political boycott. That's completely different. I am personally of the opinion that the Flemish Government will abide by the view that our political representatives, the people who represent our democracy and represent the people through the government, should not be present in Qatar. That's my opinion. However, saying that we should no longer trade with that country is of a completely different level. I personally believe that we should keep these two matters separate. I just want to point out that there are quite a few countries on that line, especially countries led by socialists. Many European countries, especially Scandinavian countries, led by socialists, have agreed that they will not send political representatives to the World Cup. Six thousand people died in the construction of the stadiums. Cela dumb-ass. That's enough. I'm establishing that. Secondly, you speak of capitalism. I'm a capitalist. I'm not a crazy capitalist, but I happen to be reading a very interesting book about moral capitalism. You bring it up, so I'm triggered now. The booklet is about the fact that in America, the cradle of capitalism or the cradle of capitalism, more and more people no longer believe in the American dream and distance. They are asking for a social correction of American capitalism. On this point, too, I believe that we should give some thought to how we want capitalism. In Europe there is d'office a corrected capitalism, thanks, among other things, to the social and syndical movement for many years. It is an interesting debate in itself. I don't believe in America's unbridled capitalism. Nor do I believe in unbridled capitalism in the Middle East. That's very problematic. It has been proven that some 6,000 migrant workers died in the construction of the football stadiums. This happened purely because of pure racist motives, because the people who work there, including Bengals, Afghans and Pakistanis, are not worth anything to the average Qataris. As a member of the government, I wouldn't even like to be present at a football game in Qatar. I don't want to spend a second in a stadium that I know thousands of people have died trying to build it. I can't personally do that. I believe that the federal government should state, as the Flemish Government has already done, that no political representatives are being sent. I am not saying that the BESIX Group is not allowed to do business in the Middle East. I do not think we should send political representation. I would like to add one more element. If the government, Prime Minister De Croo or any member of the government is present in Qatar in December, I will be the first to put an oral question on this. I hope no member of the government goes. We are not against the Red Devils, but if a member of the government goes to Qatar in December, I will put a question on that. Because I really have a problem with that. That is why I have tabled a resolution. I find it problematic to have a member of the government present in Qatar. Sweden is not going, Denmark is not going, all these countries are not going. Then why do we have to go there?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u26	Madam President, after Mr Franken's profession of faith, can we allow Mr. Ben Achour to finish his speech?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u27	I would like to close the debate here and continue in the cafeteria of a football stadium. I'd like to speak from experience. I've seen five Olympics, 16 World Championships and 24 European Championships. I believe that at least three quarters of all these championships have never taken place in a democratic country. I'm sure three-quarters of all championships have been bribed. Take a look at the composition of the judobond in the world today. Putin has just been dropped off because the international community had to, because he was the honorary chairman of the Judo League. Marius Vizer, a mobster casino boss, from Romania has been president of the other judo union for twenty years. I've seen championships at Ceausescu and I've never heard anyone, but every time there's Olympics or a world championship football, we're there. Colleague, I would very much like to hear you say that that is true. We said in 2010: we're in. We also spent a lot of money to join. We are going to China first and then say afterwards: we are doing it for human rights. That's a real wiggle. You certainly shouldn't be worried. Al-Thani is not awake in Qatar from a resolution on human rights, here in this Parliament. In February, I was in Dubai for the World Exhibition. Belgium has spent 13.6 million euros to place a stage there. The king has been there. Al Maktoum is no more democratic than Al-Thani in Qatar. Theo, I agree with everything you say, but be very consistent in everything. I can even follow the PS who dares to say: then we don't do business anymore. All these countries, up to China, are being trampled by our king and queen, by all the bobos from our political world, to be able to do business, but when it comes to sport, it's something else, when all those athletes aren't into it. I was in Moscow in 1980. Robert Van de Walle became the champion. The Olympic Games were boycotted by Belgium. Fortunately, Jacques Rogge made Belgium go to the Olympics and Robert Van de Walle became Olympic champion. Not a cat who remembers. In 1984 I was in Los Angeles. Those games were also boycotted by the rest of the world, based on Afghanistan. We went there and forgot everything in that area. I agree with all your reasons, but be less hypocritical and do not always use the sport as a starting point. I did not hear anyone in Parliament about human rights when Mrs Thiam became world champion in Qatar two years ago. It was in the same stadium, where BESIX worked and where we lay the grass mats, where Belgians supply products everywhere, where the screens are delivered by Belgian championships. Now all of a sudden it's all about human rights. You're right, but stop that hypocrisy. I've done 34 years of top-notch sports and I've been all over the world. I didn't see anything else. In Mexico, 800 people were killed the night before the Olympics. In China, the place is cleaned up. In Brazil, they cleaned the place up. We can now make it a political game about women's rights and the like, but then be a little honest with yourself and be consistent. If we don't go there for sports, we don't go there for business.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u28	We should have done a Theo live today. My resolution does not say that we should not send athletes, that we should not do business. She's purely about political representation. I don't know if Mrs Thiam had any politicians at the stadium. A World Cup football and the Olympic Games are of a different order of magnitude, especially in Western Europe. I am not saying whether that is right. I'm sure you think judo is more important. However, you cannot deny that many of these countries are trying to buy credit on the international stage by organising such events. They think they're gonna get sportswashed somehow. My appeal is only about political representation. I'll let the Red Devils play football in Qatar. I just find it odd that they're sending out a signal for Black Lives Matter, but in this case, they're opting for change. If they are interfering in the political debate by making political statements, then they must be consistent. They get the lid hard on the nose now, but they have to make their own bill eventually. I won't say anything else about that. I don't think the government should go to Qatar. I read that Green and Ecolo would like to put this on the agenda of the nuclear cabinet to discuss whether federal government members will be present in Qatar in the autumn. That still needs to be looked at. I do not always agree with you, Wouter, but I think you are right.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u29	I shall return to the statements made by Mrs Reynaert and Mr Ben Accour. We actually involved Israel in the discussion. Theo has already said that he will not make the comparison, because Israel is a democracy. Mr Ben Accour, when you spoke about a possible boycott, you said that there should be a dialogue with Qatar. Mr Laaouej, you asked what we would do with the port of Antwerp and Brussels Airport. Should we boycott people from countries whose policies we do not approve of? You didn't want me to. On the other hand, you always say that Israel should be boycotted. Israel is a country where even Arab parties are in the government. When it comes to Israel, you always argue for boycotts without exception, but when it comes to Qatar, you argue for a pragmatic approach through dialogue. Explain that to me. Then there's something else. We have tabled a resolution in this House to put Hezbollah's political wing outside the law. That's a real problem. That is an organisation that is on the European list of terrorist organisations. We are asking you to boycott it, but it is not possible for you to boycott it. That hypocrisy is really too much for me!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u30	I will not answer Mr Freilich and open a debate on the Israeli-Palestinian question. Indeed, I think we would leave for the night. I simply note that over the last 15 days there have been population displacements, war crimes, the murder of a journalist with a bullet in his head, marching to the flag led to the cries of "Death to the Arabs", houses destroyed, funeral convoy attacked. In short, Israel has zero lessons to teach in terms of human rights, and you know that well. Political Boycott yes, economic boycott, no. You know what this is all about, Mr. Franken? Take the money from the right hand and pinch the nose of the left hand. It's total hypocrisy! I do not forget what the union representatives told us in committee: "Yes, there were deaths on the construction sites. But please don't let those dead die for nothing! Do not decide on a boycott that would undermine the constructive dialogue we have established with the Qatari authorities." I'll be right back, Madam President, at my presentation. You have understood that the fundamental question is how a major sporting event can serve as a lever for advancing the cause of respect for human rights. In this respect, for both Qatar and Russia, Brazil and China, the record was mixed, and that was the subject of our debate. Sometimes the event has changed nothing for the population, sometimes it has improved the conditions of the workers in the countries in question. That is why my colleague Vicky Reynaert and I tabled the text we are proposing for the vote today. This is a motion for a resolution aimed at imposing criteria for the allocation of international sporting events in host countries. These criteria would relate to social law, labour law and human rights. They would encourage States to report on measures taken to that end. It seemed important to my group to highlight the efforts made in some countries, including Qatar, which demonstrate the value and effectiveness of such measures. Moreover, it is important to use the time that separates us from the 2022 World Cup to encourage Qatar to continue its human rights reforms beyond the World Cup, including inspection and compensation for workers whose rights have been violated.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, many things have already been said, but what is certain is that this resolution has put an issue on the agenda that should be close to our heart. Everyone agrees that human rights in general and more specifically labour rights should not be empty concepts at all. These concepts are still under considerable pressure at the moment in the organisation of international sporting events, such as the Olympic Games or the World Cup in Qatar, which is the subject of discussion here. We must be fully aware of the relationship between sport and geopolitics. They are inextricably linked and those who claim that sport has nothing to do with politics do so only for political or economic reasons. I have taken note here of terms such as pragmatism, which are in itself a form of hypocrisy and an unhealthy portion of naivety. Colleagues, dictatorships such as Qatar, China and Russia have been using sport as sports washing for decades, cleaning up the internationally stained image by organising large sporting events in which many countries participate. That gives a kind of legitimacy to a regime. Our group believes that the World Cup should never have been allocated to Qatar, as a number of colleagues have said here. It is the result of corruption and bribery, but above all, the sheiks in the countries in question are failing to comply with labour rights. This was already known when the decision was taken in 2010. It has not been so long since Amnesty International, through press officer Bosgraaf, called the alarm because it wants FIFA to do much more to tackle this problem. The kafala system, which has recently been abandoned, has been abolished only on paper. That was also confirmed in the hearings. In practice, there are still a lot of abuses. That is why it is high time we named this evil and committed actions to it. The resolution of the Vivaldi parties, which is now before us, remains far too much in the field. As has already been said, a political boycott and a diplomatic boycott are being avoided. A number of arguments have been put forward in committee. However, these arguments can be quickly and easily refuted. For example, there is the argument that a boycott would be offensive to Qatar and that it would therefore be even less respectful of labour rights. That's just a misdemeanor and very naive. We should therefore be kind to Islam dictatorships in the hope that they will then respect our human rights values. Think about whether being nice to China has ever worked. Has Beijing improved its internal human rights policy because we are tackling them with velvet gloves for economic or strategic reasons? The same reasoning should apply in this case as far as we are concerned. Indeed, the resolution as it now stands is limited to creating a regulatory framework with criteria for the allocation of major international sporting events, but does not therefore express an opinion on a diplomatic boycott. For the Flemish Interest Group, a strong signal must be sent from our governments, from our policy that Qatar is still violating human rights when building for the World Cup. We must not only do this because of these construction and infrastructure projects, including the general policy in Qatar, which is based on Sharia. If you do not have a problem with that, my group certainly does. That is why today we are again tabling the amendment that we have also tabled in committee, in which we call for a diplomatic and political boycott, by not issuing authorities or members of the royal family. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we hope that our amendment will be adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u32	Madam President, I will try to respect a five-minute speaking time. Mr. Ben Achour tried to do so, but I am not going to grieve you, Mr.Ben Achour; it would have been really impossible. Ladies and gentlemen, this resolution recalls a number of fundamental principles. That is why it must be voted by this House and its content defended by our diplomacy in the various competent assemblies without naivety of course - it has been understood in this debate - but with determination because, if we are not naive, we can be determined. As we all know, the major global events bring together millions of spectators, millions of viewers, sponsors who want to support these gatherings and who are very attentive to their image. As evidence, some sponsors have disengaged for this campaign. All, in reality, want to take away a sense of gathering, unity and conviviality. But both upstream and downstream, these events must take into account a number of standards that appear, develop and have developed over time. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, who was talking about sustainable constructions respecting an ecological specification of the infrastructures of the Olympics in the 1980s, in Los Angeles or Seoul, at the 1986 Mexican World, which, however - it is a pity that Mr Franken is no longer here - had made us so vibrate with the Red Devils? Who was concerned about the ecological footprint of a universal exhibition in Seville in 1992? So, without trying anyone, it's a fact that at the time, it wasn't yet a priority as it became today. We are no longer citizens of the 1980s. Today we are citizens of the 2020s with at the forefront of global issues, issues of the entire century. This is one of the major advances of the Paris Climate Accords. It is this long-term vision that must now dictate our policies. The Olympic Games in Paris 2024 are also geared towards this ecological and sustainable development objective, which will become a major element to be taken into account in the allocation of this type of event. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the ecological dimension, but there is also a social dimension which is fundamental. We talked a lot about it a few moments ago. The construction of Qatar's football stadiums has rightly raised many questions and suspicions. Investigations have been carried out, pointing to serious shortcomings - it is an euphemism - vis-à-vis the staff that brought them out of the ground. It would probably have been necessary to have the same requirement vis-à-vis China when building the 2008 Olympics infrastructure, but the transparency of our Chinese friends did not allow it. Nevertheless, Qatar was faced with its responsibilities. The practices of Turkish and Chinese firms have also been highlighted. Madam President, it is by participating in this type of global demonstration and not by boycotting them, by collecting complaints and investigating on the spot that one can dialogue and then obtain reparations if social norms have been violated. To turn away is of no use, to pinch your nose either, to close your eyes does not make any progress. We must have the courage to impose conditions that will advance environmental, social and, of course, human rights standards. Different sports and cultural federations must assume their responsibilities and Belgium must, in each of them, with countries sharing our ideals of the South and the North of the planet, make an ethical discourse heard. With what results? Let's be lucid! Maybe minimal at first, but you have to believe in a snowball effect. Politics also takes this kind of path. That is why we will vote in favour of this text. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u33	Madam President, a lot has already been said, so I shall confine myself to five minutes. What has happened in Qatar is denounced by this resolution: how guest workers were treated there! I would not feel comfortable as a supporter in stages built by guest workers who were abused, until death. It is important for the future that this resolution sends a signal that this is no longer acceptable. Today, it is important to give the FIFA and the International Olympic Committee a political signal that human rights policy should also be taken into account when allocating. It's not just words, it's deeds. This should become a binding criterion when awarding sporting events. Our group has added that the fight against sports washing must be combated. We see clearly in those countries that they use sporting events to polish their image. This also applies to Rwanda, which organizes the World Cup cycling races in 2025. Human rights are universal and indivisible. I heard Mr Francken say that women can support there. However, all the opponents are in prison. In this way, Rwanda is being given the signal that there is no problem and that everyone is being welcomed, while civil society organisations disappear and opponents and free press are not present. With the resolution on Paul Rusesabagina, we know what it means, there must be an unfair trial. A global signal, not only to Qatar, but also to Rwanda, as far as I am concerned. Doesn't that have an impact? I can tell. Everyone is talking about the resolutions that we approve here, but I can see that if we adopt a particular resolution, which has a certain impact. Contacts with our government will be much less easy. Other countries also adopt such resolutions. It is feared that this will become a combined activity of the West, for whom this is not acceptable. The resolutions are therefore sensible and have a cumulative effect, including in other countries. Of course, we should not just condemn them. We must also do something with our indignation. It is, of course, the least we can do to establish a dialogue. That's what happened to Qatar. This has had a number of positive effects. Of course, that's not enough. We must continue to put pressure on labour rights, on women's rights. The ILO says very clearly: that has had an impact. But prevention is always better than cure. Indeed, the World Cup should not have been awarded to Qatar. We must continue to encourage Qatar to introduce reforms, but we must not be naive. We have to make sure that sport remains a celebration for everyone. That is why our group fully supports this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. We have seen with great interest the struggle that has been waged, including through awareness-raising actions, by organisations and by the mobilisation of many workers and workers of trade unions and sports unions, by trade union and human rights activists in Qatar. Since the fraudulent, corruption-related award of the World Cup to Qatar in 2010, the actions of the International Labour Organisation, the organisation of vulnerable migrant workers and numerous NGOs have brought the scandalous kafala practices and the deaths of 6,500 workers out and sued. This has put strong pressure on those in power in Qatar and ultimately has forced a great deal of social progress. It shows that struggle can pay, even in circumstances and in countries where that is not obvious. Luc Cortebeeck, the representative of the International Labour Organisation, stated in the hearing around this resolution about the years of the struggle of trade unions and human rights activists, and I paraphrase him that this resolution and this hearing would not have come without their actions. Colleagues, the truth is, there's been a qualitative difference since 2010. A number of colleagues have just said that we are actually seeing a lot of social progress. Today there is a minimum wage in Qatar, without distinction, both for Qataris and for migrant workers and for very vulnerable domestic staff. For example, there is now an employee representation in companies and the kafala system has been dismantled in such a way that many workers now have much more freedom of movement. This also gives them a better negotiating position vis-à-vis employers and protectors. It is also a good thing that this struggle has mobilized a number of colleagues in this House to make an effort through this resolution to consolidate its results, to extend them and to apply the experience gained to other countries which will organise sporting events in the future. It is therefore not necessary to announce boycotts after social achievements have been enforced, but above all for the allocation of sporting events. It is necessary to allocate certain events on the basis of clear labour and human rights criteria. We support the demands of this resolution because the struggle of the working population and civil society is exemplary. It can be used as a lever to enable the further emancipation of the working population worldwide. We shall therefore, of course, support this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have already discussed the question of boycott. Our group is pleased that there will be much more public and political attention to human rights in Qatar, but I insist that the World Cup was already awarded to that country in 2010 and that everyone knew at that time what was going to happen. The situation in that country in terms of labour rights was already known at the time, including that the football infrastructure would be built in appalling conditions. The public and political indignation does not rise until The Guardian reports on it. Only then will the discussion finally begin, but then the evil has actually already happened. During the hearings, we listened very carefully to the organisations present in the field, the ILO, Amnesty International and the trade unions, which have been working for many years on the situation of migrant workers. They point out that a boycott at the moment, twelve years after the allocation of the World Cup and a few months before its launch, really makes very little sense. They say that a boycott at the moment does not in any way make a fundamental difference to human rights or to workers' rights on the ground. It can even have an opposite effect, because by boycotting now, one closes one's eyes to what is going on, but one also undermines the work that these organisations have done and are still doing. They explained this very clearly during the hearings. The strongest argument against a boycott is that attention should remain focused on the subject. This is not done by staying away, it is too easy, but above all, it makes no difference to the migrant workers themselves. It can be a much stronger signal if a Belgian delegation, whoever is part of it, makes a statement on the ground and talks to workers, trade unions and human rights organisations. In addition, it is of course important to keep this subject under review even after the World Cup. In particular, the World Cup in Qatar has taught us that such a debate must be held when it is decided where and under what conditions a next major international sporting event will be organised. Sports events are still being awarded to countries where fundamental rights and freedoms are under pressure. Some examples have already been given. It is clear to us that labour rights, human rights and sport are inextricably linked. I am somewhat surprised by the debate here. I hear people here arguing that things must be completely separate for them. However, the sports world does not operate in a vacuum. It is not separate from the society in which it operates. It must also follow national and international law, including labour rights. Respect for human rights is a shared responsibility of the organising countries, the international sports organisations, the companies involved and, in the event of enlargement, also the participating countries. That is why this text is before us, which calls on the federal government, as well as the state governments, to sit down with the sports federations, the sports umbrella and international sports organisations, to develop a human rights policy, to include human rights standards in the regulations and to develop monitoring mechanisms for that purpose. We are pleased to see that the Royal Belgian Football Association takes up the glove with an ethical charter, a careful document and efforts to get more transparency about how the allocations are made. Belgian diplomacy and politics can certainly play their part in this. For our group, the proposal is not the end. Sport organisations, like companies, are bound by the principles of enterprise and human rights. Strong international legislation is necessary in this respect, also in order to create a level playing field for our own companies abroad, which are also asking parties to do so, as the hearing also showed. It is therefore to be hoped that the Court will support our proposal for legislation on a duty of care. I would like to thank all Members for their support for our text.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have mixed feelings about this text. First of all, it must be recognised that this motion for a resolution, which we will support, brings with it real solutions to act upstream in order to avoid being faced with such complicated choices downstream. That is why we agree with the intention of the authors of this proposal: firstly, to include human rights standards in the regulations of international sports federations; secondly, to specify, in binding documents, that their authorities must respect and protect human rights, how they should proceed and what the consequences will be in case of violations of these rights; thirdly, to develop a mechanism to monitor compliance with these rules in order to be able to intervene in time and cancel the event, if necessary. As the debate that has just taken place has shown, these criteria are necessary to ensure greater transparency in the selection procedures for States hosting these events. Indeed, since the World Cup's award vote in Qatar, the controversy has broken out over this twenty-second edition of the World Cup, and we know that this will be the case until December. Beyond the obscure circumstances in which it bathed, the attribution of the organization of the World Cup in Qatar has always raised questions from the point of view of our fundamental values of democracy, the rule of law or human rights. Of course, as my colleague, Michel De Maegd, said, if we exclude all countries in which these values are not respected, very few states could now claim to host a World Cup. But it is one thing to accept that a state which, for various reasons, does not have the same culture of these values as our own hosts the event, this is another than the organisation of a sports tournament based directly on serious human rights violations and that the stadiums themselves could be built through the exploitation, abuse and even the death of thousands of workers. I don't see how one can tolerate such a thing! That is why we also welcome all the requests in the motion for a resolution for more guarantees to ensure the rights of workers involved in hosting international sporting events such as the World Cup. But what is hurting is that, despite the investigations and injunctions of the international community, and despite the fact that Qatar has been repeatedly encouraged to carry out reforms in respect of human rights and workers' rights, it seems – and here I disagree with the sponsors of the motion for a resolution – that what everyone feared will still happen, namely that workers' rights will be violated until the eve of the World Cup, that thousands of workers will have perished so that Qatar can host this World Cup. It also seems that human rights will never have been so badly affected as their violation is indirectly supported by all the States participating in this World Cup, which will send their delegation and supporters to these stadiums and infrastructure built, in part, on corpses. I regret – I did not want to invite myself to the debate earlier so that Mr. Ben Achour can finish his speech – but I don't see how we can go to Qatar to attend a game as an official representative, as if these thousands of dead didn't exist. We have six months left to send the message to the international community that our country can never turn a blind eye to Qatar's human rights and labour rights actions. Of course, the message must be proportionate. There is a range of measures that would allow us to show our discontent without too much mix between politics and sports practice. This would be the case, for example, by asking our players to wear a form of message on their jersey, on a armband, in support of all the workers who have been exploited, the families of those who have perished and all those who see their fundamental rights violated in Qatar. We hope that the government will be able to hear these requests. And we are sorry, but we also believe that we must go further and use the technique of boycott, at least a diplomatic and political boycott. No Belgian representation should officially visit this event at the end of the year. We hear that the decision has not yet been taken, and we call on this government to seriously consider this possibility, as we have asked in the amendment tabled in committee. We believe that this path is a viable alternative that will at least allow us to preserve our credibility in terms of, inter alia, human rights at the international level. That is why we will support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u37	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u38	• 22 – Annick Ponthier cs (2330/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u39	The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendment retained and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u40	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Eric Thiébaut, Daniel Senesael, Hervé Rigot, Bert Moyaers, Melissa Depraetere, Anja Vanrobaeys, Sophie Thémont.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u41	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2417/4) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2417/4) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteurs, Mr Franky Demon, Mr Jan Briers and Mr Ortwin Depoostere, refer to written reports.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today there are 17,300 firefighters in our country. There are almost 10,900 volunteers and 7,000 professional firefighters. They're firefighters working 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. They provide assistance to the population throughout the country from a post in one of the 34 emergency areas or from the Fire and Emergency Medical Aid Service of the Brussels Capital Region (SIAMU). It is a profession, a vocation exercised in very often difficult and dangerous conditions. The duties of a volunteer firefighter are the same as those of a professional firefighter. The only difference is that volunteers do not work full-time for the fire department. These tasks are obviously essential. It therefore seemed essential to me that this House should at last look in depth at the fire department, whether professional or voluntary, and at its developments, which certainly concern the three regions of our country with particularities and nuances. However, as the debates in committee have pointed out, there is a real urgency. Areas face a range of challenges, not least in terms of training but also in attracting new recruits. Yes, vocations are in the dark. Overall, the number of volunteers in the country's relief areas has decreased by 8.2 per cent. In absolute numbers, this corresponds to almost 1,000 fewer firefighters in our country. While it is a voluntary profession, it requires a very important personal involvement, based above all on passion, solidarity and self-giving in the service of society. This voluntary activity therefore involves serious questions relating to the balance between private and professional life, as well as the need to raise awareness among the employers concerned. However, the role of volunteers is essential in our relief areas and to ensure that the number of firefighters able to respond to disasters and disasters is always sufficient throughout the country. In view of this, we have tabled this text which proposes a proactive approach and concrete initiatives in consultation with the sector, the trade unions and all the stakeholders concerned. It proposes to improve and modernize their recruitment and status so that they are better adapted and take into account both their main profession and their privacy, while ensuring the quality of service they provide to the public. In concrete terms, our proposal calls for, among other things, shorter lead times, greater involvement of relief areas in recruitment and training, and more specialized and therefore less burdensome training. Today, you need to know that a volunteer firefighter must undergo training every Saturday for three years before you can be active in the field. So there are a lot of volunteer firefighters who give up after a few months when they could aim for a firefighter's career. In addition, we propose to conduct a national information campaign on the profession of volunteer firefighter. Our will is to be part of the important work that has already been launched by the Minister and also by the Communities, and to strengthen this dynamic by involving our assembly even more in order to best meet the demands of the field. The Minister has established four working groups that bring together networks, unions and volunteers to make concrete contributions. These working groups started their work in March and will deliver concrete results this year. This text submitted to our plenary assembly therefore makes it possible to contribute to this work and must guarantee our subsequent involvement. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude by recalling that the State must guarantee the protection of citizens at all times. To this end, firefighters are an essential part of this public service mission. I am pleased that this text has been adopted unanimously in committee. I would like to thank all of my colleagues once again for their support and constructive proposals to support the Minister in his research and the adoption of concrete solutions. I will not be longer because there is no need to listen to each other speak in a forum for hours for a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u43	Mr President, security is a top priority for CD&V. The fire department is a crucial and indispensable link in our safety chain. We must therefore continue to work on strengthening all these organisations. Many areas rely heavily on volunteers, but we note that it is becoming increasingly difficult for them to find them. Fireworks have changed, too. The scale increase requires a more professional approach. The installation of barracks was centralized and more complex assignments require a greater specialisation of firefighters on the ground. This, of course, also affects the voluntary firefighters. The resolution before us seeks a number of solutions to improve the recruitment of volunteers and their status. Among other things, the government was asked to amend the social status in order to promote the recruitment of volunteers. Furthermore, the government was encouraged to examine whether fire volunteers could specifically focus on certain tasks, which means that they should not follow the entire fire training. We also ask for a national information campaign to warm people up to the voluntary firefighters and to provide the regular employers with the necessary information. As I said in committee, we cannot ignore the fact that volunteering is evolving. People have less time and often only engage in short and specific projects. Volunteers themselves choose the moments at which they are available and we will have to take that into account in the future. That is why we support the thinking of this resolution, which seeks to ensure that the concept of firefighter volunteers evolves along with the current social trends. I would therefore like to thank the authors. At the same time, Minister of the Interior Verlinden is not sitting still. This was very clear from the exchange of views we had with her in connection with this resolution. For example, before the Easter holiday, the Royal Decree on quick wins was already adopted, including a number of statutory changes that are absolutely beneficial to the volunteers. The Minister has also set up a number of working groups, working together with all relevant actors in the field on solutions. In this way, proposals for adjustments, improvements and simplifications of recruitment and training are already being prepared. In addition, there is also the Volunteer 2.0 project that will be drawn further by the FPS Home Affairs. The Minister made it clear that it was her intention to reach agreements in the autumn, which could quickly be converted into royal decisions. The present resolution is therefore a nice addition to the work already done by the Minister. Our group will therefore approve this text in its entirety.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to support this motion for a resolution aimed at improving the situation of volunteer firefighters, whose needs are dire and their working conditions very difficult. They must be available and responsive when called for intervention, while they are engaged in another occupation - often full-time. The volunteer firefighter's activity must be reconciled not only with family life, but also with the main occupation of the firefighter, with all the hourly conflicts, as well as the weekend, night and evening interventions involved. Volunteer firefighters must be effective in the field and therefore receive exactly the same training as professional firefighters - which also compromises this balance. Many aspects therefore need to be improved. Nevertheless, this motion for a resolution opens for us the substantive debate on the balance to be struck between the status of a professional and voluntary firefighter in our country. Belgium has some 5,000 professional firefighters per 12,000 volunteer firefighters. As a result, a large number of areas have more volunteers than professionals. Why this imbalance? The reason is quite simple and was called back in committee. It was reported that professional firefighters cost EUR 34 million, compared with EUR 5 million for volunteers. The reason why the sector is not further professionalised is therefore essentially budgetary - which no one disputes, since this was recalled during the debates. I quote the minister, who told us: "We must aim at maintaining volunteers in areas that already count a lot in order to avoid an increase in costs for local authorities." This greater professionalization is demanded by the field, trade unions and hierarchy. True, complete teams of volunteers-supported professionals are needed, not the other way around. With regard to the budget, how to pay for more professionals? Local government finances are in the red. It is known that in Wallonia, the government made the decision to involve the provinces in this funding. We also know that for years, the federal government has not paid enough for its relief areas. He was also sentenced in 2021 to pay more for the NAGE rescue zone. While a 50/50 distribution between the federal and the communes should be sought, a 20/80 distribution is rather close. Citizens and firefighters are the big losers in this story. People don't care if the federal, provincial, regional or municipal governments are going to pay for firefighters, they want the means to have a proper service to ensure their safety. I think the means exist. When we see the billions that we want to give to the defence budget, I think a few million could be subtracted from it to ensure the safety of our fellow citizens. For us, this is a missed opportunity to solve this problem and this imbalance between professionals and volunteers. Even if we support this text, I wanted to give the opinion on the ground, which the trade unions and the firefighters asked us to tell you in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, none of us can underestimate the value and importance of our many fire volunteers. The colleagues who work locally know that very well. The presence of volunteers in their relief zones is very important. The use of these volunteers is crucial, necessary and invaluable. There is absolutely no doubt about that. However, it should also be stressed that our areas of assistance have a different composition as regards the relationship between professional firefighters and firefighters. Whether a fire station is partly or entirely made up of professional staff, volunteers are used everywhere. Those are people who are ready in their spare time to protect residents. In committee, we have seen that the number of volunteers has fallen by 8.2 %. This has an impact and deserves our attention. Due to the low influx of volunteers, a number of zones are under very heavy pressure. We've been looking at that by zone, too. There are several reasons for that. Where earlier generations of the same family, mostly from father to son or daughter, became firefighter volunteers, that is not really the case anymore today. The long duration of training as a firefighter and the fact that candidates often have to take leave for it is also demotivating. Many drop out during training. In addition, the number of training places is inadequate, and this is a finding we have made. Where volunteers used to be almost always permanently available outside their working hours, today's availability is sometimes lower than is expected on site. There is also a huge war for talent going on today between the various order and emergency services. All this also has an impact on the contribution of cities and municipalities to the relief zones, because each zone wants a maximum level of protection of its territory. That also means that there is a huge variation in funding. The 50/50 ratio between the federal contribution and the municipal contribution really needs to be addressed. This brings me back to the resolution, which certainly has a positive approach and is guided by a number of important elements in order to achieve a faster but also wider influx of volunteers. After all, we note that training really needs to be reformed. The Minister is focusing on sensitisation. That is a very good thing, and we have seen it as positive in the exchange of views. However, there is, of course, still more to be done on this communication. The flow of the cadets must also be raised. In Wallonia it is higher than in Flanders. I will come back to that later in an oral question. We are also eagerly looking forward to the results of the Volunteer 2.0 project. It must therefore be further accelerated, but this resolution really is a first encouragement from Parliament so that the Minister can come up with initiatives after the recess. The volunteers are really waiting for this. In any case, the exchange of views has enriched us, because we want to move forward. I would also like to thank my fellow Members very much for this initiative. As in the committee, the Open Vld Group will support this resolution wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u46	Mr President, ensure better recruitment of fire volunteers and improve their status. That is what this resolution is about in a sense. It has already been said, we cannot ignore the fact that we are suffering from a shortage of firefighters. They appeal on a voluntary basis, but this requires a very far-reaching personal commitment based above all on passion, solidarity and self-sacrifice for the benefit of society. The number of volunteers in Flanders has fallen enormously since 2015. There's a drop of over 550 firefighters. The reasons have already been mentioned by several colleagues, but the main reason is the difficulty of finding a balance between private life and working life, but also the lack of available training places, a cumbersome and sometimes very incoherent working procedure, a lack of information and so on. However, fire volunteers play a very crucial role in our relief zones. I believe that Mr Thiébaut, as the first author, has already raised the most important points in this resolution in order to improve recruitment and improve the status. I would like to recapitulate our main points. The administrative status should be adjusted in order to facilitate the recruitment of fire volunteers. Much greater account must also be taken of the needs of the assisted areas themselves. It is also very important to examine which interventions can better organise the recruitment tests. We must also examine the possibilities for firefighters to engage in a specific position, for which the candidates should not follow the entire training in order to be able to participate. We should also be able to find out why an internship is being extended or why a candidate of his own accord quits to become a firefighter volunteer. Another point in the resolution that we find very positive, because we also see it in the FPS Home Affairs and the FPS Defense Department, is that students from the fifth and sixth secondary schools can be given a new subject specifically focused on safety professions. The profession of firefighter volunteers also really needs a national information campaign. There are a lot of local campaigns, but I think a big national campaign is very important. I also said it at the committee meeting. I believe that diversity plays a very important role in this. For example, it is not easy to recruit a woman as a firefighter. They're far too few. However, diversity can bring great added value. It should certainly not be the intention to introduce quotas or to undermine quality requirements. I think it is very important to promote diversity. As far as that is concerned, we can add a little bit more.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u47	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u48	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Kathleen Depoorter, Frieda Gijbels, Yoleen Van Camp. The Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (1750/5) The Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities proposes that this motion for a resolution be rejected. (1750/5) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u49	The rapporteurs, Mrs Vanpeborgh and Mrs Hmente, did not intervene. Mrs Depoorter, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Article 88 is about a second sitting for a bill that has been pending for a year and a half. Many consultations have taken place and many opinions have been requested. There were positive opinions, which concluded that a resolution on orphan medicines and diseases was really needed for the more than 500,000 patients in our country who are suffering from more than 7,000 orphan diseases. According to the speakers in committee, this motion for a resolution has provoked a small debate. A small debate as a final objective, of course we do not agree with that. The final objective of a resolution proposal must be to ensure that the government takes effective action on the findings and requests formulated by a committee and then takes effective form. I have heard all possible excuses for not having to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. Colleagues, I have already said in committee that I find this particularly painful for all those patients. Of course, we all have our political colours, we all have our ideology and our party, but if we can't go beyond those limits in an apolitical debate like this, if we can't really think about what these patients really need and how we can work with them, then this is a missed opportunity. I heard a number of colleagues say that is not concrete enough. However, very concrete actions have been included. Other colleagues said that we are already working on it. Yeah, we're working on 4 out of 6,000 orphan diseases. Ladies and gentlemen, now that I have read all your speeches again, I must say that you have made a mistake. You voted against. Today, probably quite coincidentally, I read in the Doctor's Newspaper, a magazine that I follow very closely, that a press release from our minister was sent into the world on 2 June 2022 at 14.20 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, it is effective in second place, but you all have the Minister's permission to simply vote in favour of this resolution. Voilà. What does the Minister say? I shall first read out request 10 of my motion for a resolution. Request 10 reads: "to carry out an urgent investigation into another, better, faster access policy to orphan medicinal products for our patients, taking into account a Pay for Performance programme, and to work out how to obtain a rapid and conditional authorisation for reimbursement of innovative therapies for orphan disease." That's request number 10. The press release states that Vandenbroucke will introduce a fast access procedure for all authorised medicinal products that apply for reimbursement. For orphan medicinal products claiming therapeutic added value, the application may already be submitted following a favourable opinion of the European Medicines Agency. They do not therefore have to wait for the time-consuming CTG procedure of 180 days. Colleagues, so it's settled. You are in favour, we are in favour. I invite you all to put aside party politics for the sake of our patients for a moment and press the right vote button. These are patients who are currently in difficulty due to too slow diagnosis, lack of knowledge or lack of care. Some patients need to drive hours to find a doctor with sufficient knowledge to help them. Expensive medication doesn't pay them back. Parents should advance therapies that are not refunded, e.g. kinesitherapy. A register will now be required to record which orphan diseases occur in our country, where these patients live and which are their needs. I'm sure all those patients will be grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u51	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u52	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Valerie Van Peel. The Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs proposes to reject this bill. (187/6) The Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs proposes to reject this bill. (187/6) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u53	Madam President, most of the time I think that the presentation of a report is merely a necessary formality, but this proposal by Mrs Van Peel is not merely a formality. That has nothing to do with the applicant, but everything to do with the content of this proposal. This bill sought to amend the law on compensation for asbestos victims. Everyone in this hemisphere is aware of the danger of asbestos and the awareness is not new and goes beyond party boundaries. This proves that this proposal and similar proposals have already been tabled in the past. Almost all parties expressed their support for these proposals, at least orally. In its introduction, the applicant pointed out how long it took in Belgium, the country par excellence, to ban the use of asbestos. This was in 1998. She also pointed out how the first proposals for the establishment of the Asbestos Fund came about from 2002, to be finally established in December 2006. The Asbestos Fund provides compensation for all asbestos victims for asbestos-related health problems, both workers in the asbestos industry and environmental or environmental victims. Several statements during the committee also referred to the scandalous financing of this Asbestos Fund, with each employer paying 0.01% of the wage mass to this fund. The same rule applies to Eternit, Etex, if, for example, the barber of Staden or the baker in Aarlen, who has never heard of asbestos, let alone seen it up close. Unlike, for example, France or the Netherlands, where the polluter pays principle also applies to this dossier. In addition to the scandalous financing of this fund, there is a second peculiarity in our legislation, namely the built-in immunity for asbestos companies. Anyone who invokes the Asbestos Fund shall waive any legal action against the asbestos companies at that time. One of the objectives of the legislative proposal was therefore to lift that civil immunity. The victims or their survivors should always be able to claim full compensation, even if they have already received compensation through the Asbestos Fund. Mrs Van Peel also recalled in committee the courageous struggle of the Jonckheere family, neighbors of the Eternit factory in Kapelle-op-den-bos. After receiving the necessary opinions, the Committee continued with the various statements. I myself pointed out the various places, apart from the famous Kapelle-op-den-boss, where asbestos was used, produced, processed or landfilled in the past. Nor can the crushing responsibility of the government be denied. For too long, it has not only tolerated but even promoted the use of asbestos. The 2006 compromise, linking the creation of an asbestos fund with immunity for asbestos companies, was a poor compromise. The Flemish Interest confirmed in its statement that the party would support the present proposal. Support also came from the corner of the PTB. Mrs Moscufo thought it was not a perfect proposal, but valuable enough to support it. The funding of the fund was also a thorn in her eyes. This was more difficult for the majority parties. They mainly tried to drown the fish in a bath of additional advice, hearings, evaluations and fine words. Mrs Cornet shared the concerns and pointed out that for far too long the environment and health were at risk for economic benefits. However, her party wanted to deepen the matter and voted against it. Mrs Lanjri of the CD&V tapped out of another box and pointed out in particular the possible legal difficulties that could be faced by the victims. She asked for a new study from Fedris. Mrs De Jonge of the Open Vld called it a painful matter and called for emotions not to prevail. She feared that the victims with the adjustment will have more to lose than to win. Mrs Vanrobaeys van Vooruit and Mrs Bonaventure of the PS, as well as Mrs Reuter of the MR, also feared that the legislative proposal would return to the situation before 2007, which, moreover, was strongly contradicted by the supporters. Finally, Mrs Fonck made a very comprehensive statement to defend her amendment on the adaptation of the list of recoverable diseases resulting from exposure to asbestos. The amendment did not come to the vote at the time, but was adopted in a different way. It also expressed its support for the proposal. So this proposal did not survive the vote in committee. We will soon find out what the plenary thinks about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the content has just been outlined by my colleague, but the content is not the problem, because it is very clear. This bill, which I have been trying to get sold for the third time to some of my colleagues, is very clearly about abolishing a scandalous protection measure for the asbestos industry. This protection measure has emerged after a lot of lobbying at the Verhofstadt government. The Emsens family, not unknown to a number of MPs, played a major role in this. I have just heard a number of colleagues say the 'polluter pays' principle at least six times in this House. Well, the biggest polluter ever, with the most deaths, throughout Europe, India, the rest of the world, but especially in our country, that's Eternit and the asbestos industry. They haven't paid a cent in our country. I'm not going into any more detail on the contents of the file. We want to rectify a political disorder. Asbestos victims have been given a bribe in exchange for a waiver of their legal and moral rights. That is the issue here. I'm sure everyone here is well aware of that. The non-arguments on this proposal which I have had to hear for the umpteenth time in the debate are all so simple to refute. That's downright embarrassing. I am not even asking for the vote on this proposal, I am not that naive after last time. If even the presence of Eric Jonckheere, who has lost both his parents and two brothers and who himself is ill, like his brother still alive, cannot convince you to approve the resolution, then I have no illusions about its content. Today there are some Members in the Chamber who want to do something about their job. What is in store is the relevance of this Parliament. If we are not in a position to simply vote as we feel on a dossier that is not covered by the coalition agreement, then we should abolish it here. So what's going on here today is what kind of MP you all want to be today. I know very well what my choice will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u55	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u56	The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the introduction of the bill on budgetary provisions in the field of health, No. 2721/1. The Government asked for the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft bill on budgetary health provisions, No. 2721/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u57	Madam Chair, I confirm that the government is calling for urgency on Minister Vandenbroucke's Bill No. 2721 on health budget provisions. Given the high inflation rate and the delayed response of the health indexing system, the project aims to provide a one-time additional payment of €207 million to health care providers and the health sector whose fees are linked to the health index. The additional payment is limited to the period from June 1, 2022 to December 31, 2022 for sectors with an ongoing agreement or to receive an advance on their index in 2023, which requires, Madam Chair, the passage of the bill as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u58	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u59	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (art. 75, n° 5, Rgt) If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. (art. 75, nr. 5, Rgt) No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u60	Vote on Amendment No 43 by Annick Ponthier cs to insert a request 13(n).(1524/5) Vote on Amendment No 43 by Annick Ponthier cs inserting a request 13(n).(1524/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u61	Yes [[17]] Yes No. 117 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u62	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u63	Yes 106 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 27 Abstensions Total 133 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u64	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u65	Yes 87 Yes No. [[37]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 134 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u66	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u67	Yes 125 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 135 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u68	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u69	Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u70	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u71	Yes 97 Yes Non 17 No. Abstensions 21 Abstentions Total 135 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 997/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 997/1 was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u72	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u73	Yes 87 Yes Non 27 No. Abstensions 21 Abstentions Total 135 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 2511/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 2511/1 was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u74	Vote on Amendment No 5 by Sophie Rohonyi to Article 2.(2423/6) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Sophie Rohonyi on article 2.(2423/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u75	Yes [[12]] Yes No. 123 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Frieda Gijbels cs to insert an Article 2/1(n).(2423/6) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Frieda Gijbels cs to insert an article 2/1(n).(2423/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u76	Yes [[22]] Yes No. 87 No Abstentions 27 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Frieda Gijbels cs to insert an Article 2/2(n).(2423/6) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Frieda Gijbels cs to insert an Article 2/2(n).(2423/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u77	Yes 49 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u78	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u79	Yes 96 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 39 Abstensions Total 135 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u80	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u81	Yes 125 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 135 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u82	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u83	Yes 97 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 39 Abstensions Total 136 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u84	Vote on Amendment No 22 by Annick Ponthier cs inserting a request 13(n).(2330/8) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Annick Ponthier, Ellen Samyn to insert a request 13(n).(2330/8) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u85	Yes [[39]] Yes No. 96 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u86	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u87	Yes 95 Yes No. [[21]] No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[(Non]] )
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u88	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u89	Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u90	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u91	Yes 81 Yes Non 55 No. Abstensions 0 Abstentions Total 136 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 1750/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 1750/1 was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u92	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u93	Yes 72 Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 131 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Therefore, Bill 187/1 is rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 187/1 was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-02-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip184x.u94	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. At the request of the Minister of Economy and Labour, I propose to defer the discussion of the following bills to the plenary sitting on June 16, 2022: At the request of the Minister for Economy and Work, I propose that the discussion of the following draft laws be postponed to the plenary session of 16 June 2022: - the draft law on various urgent provisions relating to the fight against money laundering, Nos. 2669/1 to 6 (agenda item 8); - the draft law on the fight against money laundering, Nos 2669/1 to 6 (item 8 of the agenda); - the draft law transposing Directive (EU) 2019/790 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on copyright and related rights in the digital single market and amending Directives 96/9/EC and 2001/29/EC, Nos 2608/1 to 5 (agenda item 9). - the draft law transposing Directive (EU) 2019/790 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on copyright and related rights in the digital single market and amending Directives 96/9/EC and 2001/29/EC, Nos 2608/1 to 5 (item 9 of the agenda). No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, June 9, 2022, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 9 June 2022 at 2.15 p.m.
