ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u1	Mr President, Minister, we have addressed the issue of monoclonal antibodies on several occasions. Of course, vaccination remains the most effective weapon to defeat this pandemic. However, we also know that the fourth dose in immunocompromised patients does not always guarantee true protection. As such, monoclonal antibodies may offer them another possibility. Recent WHO reports indicate that some monoclonal antibodies are not very effective against the omicron variant. Of course, we must take this into account. However, they have some efficacy in avoiding certain serious forms, if administered in immunocompromised patients shortly after infection. On the other hand, other medicines are emerging. Thus it would appear that the Xevudy (Sotrovimad-GSK) produces results. It is, moreover, the medicine that is prescribed in our country. Mr Minister, what about the use of monoclonal antibodies and other treatments in Belgium, including Pfizer's anticovid pill, which has just been recognised by the European Medicines Agency? I hear 10,000 doses have been ordered. This is much less than in some countries. Therefore, what action plan for antiviral and monoclonal medicinal products do you intend to develop?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u2	Mr Creyelman is sorry. Maybe he'll join us later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u3	Mr. Chair, Minister, the oral treatments that have been presented for several weeks now are additional assets to reduce pressure on hospitals and on our health care system, the objective being obviously to prevent hospitalizations. I've been able to ask you about this before. As you announced, our country has negotiated with Merck for the purchase of 10,000 doses of a five-day treatment for covid-19. A task force called "Covid Therapeutics" has recently been set up. It is responsible for coordinating the purchase of these drugs and has recommended the purchase of 10,000 doses of another treatment for coronavirus, Paxlovid, which would reduce the risk of hospitalization and death in non-vaccinated patients with coronavirus by almost 90%. Minister, how does the Covid Therapeutics Task Force work alongside the Vaccination Task Force and the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (AFMPS)? Do experts participate in these two groups linked between vaccination and other medicines? What exactly are the government's demands for these oral treatments against covid-19 and their accessibility? Considering the announced acquisition of 10,000 doses of each of these treatments, do you consider this number to be sufficient, and on what scientific basis and medical needs has this number been determined? Are you planning additional purchases in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u4	Mr President, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u5	Minister, I heard from the press that about 10,000 doses of Paxlovid from Pfizer and molnupiravir have been purchased from MSD. The price in Belgium is not known, but that in the United States, namely about 126 euros for treatment with molnupiravir and 470 euros for treatment with Paxloid. What budget has Belgium earmarked for this? How much did you pay for those pills in total? Exactly how many treatments did you order? Are you sure it's about 10,000 doses? Were there any extra orders made after that? How much is paid for treatment with Paxlvid and how much for treatment with molnupiravir? How did the negotiations go with the producers? Is it secret contracts with the application of Article 111 or Article 81, as reported in the report? When and where is this medication going to be used today?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u6	I refer to the written version of my question. On Thursday 27 January, the European Medicines Agency EMA gave the green light to the deployment of Paxlovid, Pfizer's coronapil. In mid-December, the EEA had already approved the use of the medicine in emergency situations. Now Paxlovid gets a conditional admission for the broad market. The European Commission still needs to officialise the opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u7	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u8	The new covid medicines are intended to inhibit disease progression at timely start-up. In the first clinical trials in specific at risk patients, this resulted in fewer hospitalisations and possibly fewer deaths. In the clinical setting and mainly in vaccinated patients, this has yet to be demonstrated. The monoclonal antibodies are administered intravenously or subcutaneously. The antivirals that are given orally have the theoretical advantage that they can also be started in outpatient practice. The major challenge in practice is to start these medicines within three to five days of the first covid symptoms in the right patients at risk. The medicines also have a number of side effects and there are still a number of unanswered questions regarding patient safety and contraindications. The timely use in the right patient should therefore be further investigated in order to promote the efficient use of those potential innovations. I would also like to mention the possible re-use of medicines already on the market, such as fluvoxamine. The first study results of these products are now available. Their safety profile is of course already better known, so they may also be used. This type of drug treatment cannot in any way replace vaccination, the benefits of which are now well known. Vaccination is and remains the most important weapon in the fight against covid-19. In order to be able to quickly obtain the new oral antivirals and other medications against covid-19, after an initial evaluation of the evidence by experts, I set up the Covid Therapeutics Task Force. This task force is led by Professor Dirk Ramaekers, who also leads, as you know, the Vaccination Task Force. The Covid Therapeutics Task Force is integrated into the Federal Centre of Expertise for Health Care (KCE) and works closely with the Drug Evaluation Unit of the INAMI Drug Reimbursement Commission, the Public Health FPS, Sciensano and AFMPS. The Task Force also includes expert clinicians from both hospitals and the first line of care in both parts of the country. It coordinates the following issues: decisions to purchase covid-19 drugs, including the determination of the volumes to be purchased, the positioning of these drugs in the therapeutic arsenal and the target population, the development of guidelines for primary care and for the hospital for which specific working groups have been set up, health technology assessment studies, i.e. an analysis of their safety, clinical effectiveness and the relationship between their cost and therapeutic value and their budgetary impact, issues relating to controlled distribution and the collection of data on results in order to adjust the positioning and correct indication. Since its creation on 1 December, this task force has made recommendations on the purchase of four medicines that can be used to treat COOVID-19. I've decided to follow those advices. This means that we bought 10,000 treatments for molnupiravir, the brand name of which is Lagevrio; for sotrovimb, branded Xevudy, 20,000 doses; for nirmatrelvir/ritonavir, branded Paxlvid, 10,000 treatments and for remdesivir, branded Veklury, 5,300 doses. Veklury and Xevudy are purchased through the European joint purchase procedure. Paxlovid and Lagevrio are purchased through a bilateral contract, as there is no procedure yet for a joint purchase of these products at European level. The price of the products is confidential. Xevudy and Veklury are already available and used in hospitals, in accordance with the treatment guidelines established by the Hospital Guidance Group. A first delivery of 2,880 treatments Lagevrio has arrived. The rest of the treatments are expected soon. The contract with Paxlovid is currently being finalised. The first deliveries are expected in the first quarter of this year. The task force shall base itself on scientific information available and known at the time the advice is given. Opinions may therefore be subject to changes if new information becomes available. For advice on the volume to be purchased for Lagevrio, the Task Force has taken into account safety, efficacy, population characteristics from the clinical trials, the number of people to be treated to avoid hospitalization, the so-called Number Needed to Treat (NNT) and the logistics processes and distribution channels to get the medicine to the patient. The volume of Lagevrio purchased by Belgium is in line with what other European countries, such as Germany (80,000 treatments), Italy (50,000 treatments) and Switzerland (8,640 treatments) have purchased. That is between 0.8 and 1 treatment per 1,000 inhabitants. Austria has placed a fairly large order of 80,000 treatments, which amounts to 9 treatments per 1,000 inhabitants. France had originally placed an order of 50,000 treatments, but cancelled them after it was found that the research results of the entire study indicated a less favourable effect of Lagevrio compared to the results of the interim analysis. The volume purchased for Denmark is unknown to us, as is the responsibility of the other countries with regard to the purchased volume of Lagrevio. It is to be stressed that the EEA's final review is still ongoing. The Task Force works in close consultation with the FAGG, the FPS Public Health, Sciensano and coordinating physicians and other interested parties to make molnupiravir available in the framework of covid outbreaks in residential care centres. The planned starting date is mid-February 2022. This is not a clinical trial, but a controlled provision of the medicinal product which will collect additional data on use, hospitalisation and mortality in order to further expand existing knowledge about the product. The data will be viewed monthly within the task force, unless another frequency proves more appropriate when processing the data. In addition, the Task Force examines the financial and operational feasibility of a study with a limited number of GPs and in a limited number of GPs in order to make an informed decision on the appropriate use of Lagrevio and Paxlvid for the treatment of COVID-19. Inclusion of Lagrevio in a COVID-19 clinical trial in the first line is being prepared. More than 100 patients will be treated with Lagrevio in a study context. The speed of recruitment will depend heavily on the epidemic situation. A project is also being developed for the proper use of Paxlovid for the treatment of COVID-19. The COVID Therapeutics Task Force also examines other pistes to make Paxloid available to the Belgian population in a controlled way, such as through projects that follow covid patients in their home situation through telemonitoring. The large-scale provision of high-risk patients depends, inter alia, on the experience acquired with the medicinal products initially purchased. The clinical trials for Lagrevio and Paxloid were conducted before the emergence of omikron. A recent study shows that in vitro activity against the omicron variant continues to exist for both products. Both Lagrevio and Paxlovid were purchased through a bilateral contract between the Belgian State and the company, the content of which is confidential. There is currently no marketing authorisation for Lagrevio by the European Medicines Agency. A refund by INAMI is therefore not on the agenda. On 27 January 2022, the EEA granted conditional market authorisation for Paxloid. No application for reimbursement has yet been made by the company to the RIZIV. There is also no recommendation from the Supreme Health Council. The reasons for the orders I have mentioned can be found in the opinion of the Task Force. You will also find the list of members and their conflicts of interest. All this has been published on the KCE website. If you type in the search engine the words "KCE Taskforce COVID Therapeutics," you will find it easily. For monoclonal antibodies, in vitro studies have shown that sotrovimab (Xevudy) appears to maintain a reduced efficacy against the omicron variant. This medicine is currently available. Hospitals and general practitioners have been informed. They received the information including the conditions and recommendations for use, the method of ordering, as well as an application form. This medicinal product should be used as recommended by Sciensano. A panel of pre-designated medical experts must have issued a positive opinion on the administration of treatment to a covid-19 patient. The combination of tixagevimab/cilgavimab (Evusheld) also appears to maintain reduced efficacy against the omicron variant, according to in vitro studies. Moreover, all other monoclonal antibodies have become almost ineffective against the omicron variant. Evusheld is not yet available in Belgium because the European Medicines Agency has not yet issued a marketing authorisation notice. For Regkirona, also a monoclonal antibody, the task force decided to postpone the advice until further information on the efficacy against omikron is available. Belgium is in favour of putting maximum effort on European joint procurement for such products. Discussions on this are ongoing within the European Commission. Given the great uncertainties about the effectiveness of the new molecules used here, the Task Force has not yet made any recommendation to provide for optional treatments in bilateral contracts. The European joint purchasing procedure allows additional orders to be placed, as Belgium already did for Xevudy and Veklury. For each of the medicinal products used against COVID-19, the use is monitored within the Task Force in order to deal with shortages in a timely manner. I hope to reassure you that my services are closely monitoring the availability and evolution of these drugs. Here, Mr President, are my answers to this first topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u9	Thank you, Minister. I will give Members the floor for their replies. I have also forgotten to ask whether members of groups who have not yet taken part in the debate wish to speak. It's a possibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u10	Minister, thank you for your detailed answers. You have made it clear, and I fully share this view: vaccination is the best tool and the best weapon to fight the pandemic. However, for immunocompromised individuals, even the fourth dose does not appear to be effective. For these patients in particular, sotrovimab remains highly effective, even for the omicron variant, and should be used very quickly in the course of infection. So I really advocate that these long-acting monoclonal antibodies, such as sotrovimab, and antivirals such as paxlovid, can be used as quickly as possible. There is a decrease in the number of people in intensive care and, for the people themselves, a much better prognosis in terms of the cure of the infection.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u11	Mr Minister, vaccines are indeed an important weapon in the fight against the corona virus, but of course they are not the only weapon. I am convinced that we cannot put all our eggs in the basket of vaccines. Virus inhibitors can and will play an important role in the fight against the virus, especially as long as we do not have immunising vaccines. I therefore welcome the fact that you are not going to sit down in this area and that you are following things up, especially for certain patient groups, so that we can use those virus inhibitors as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u12	Minister, I do not fully share your opinion on the number of virus inhibitors ordered. You compared with a number of surrounding countries, but there are also countries that have ordered much more, such as the United Kingdom. It has happened repeatedly in this crisis that the United Kingdom was a little bit more forward-looking than we were. It's a good thing there's an opening to order more of those virus inhibitors. I find the following striking. I have requested the contracts from the FAGG and I have received the answer that the FAGG is not in possession of those contracts, that those contracts are with the Public Health Office. So I ask the question again: is it possible, as a Member of Parliament, to look at these contracts anyway? You say that they are secret, but in fact it is unseen that the Commission has stopped accessing and re-using administrative documents since the summer and that we cannot in any way touch very important information. I am particularly sorry that Lagevrio cannot yet be deployed, when it has been in our country for a very long time. There's been an outbreak in my community in a residential care center and it couldn't be administered. That's pretty poignant, isn't it? Why is it taking so long, when there is evidence and those people could certainly have been helped, when we were now empty-handed? With regard to the distribution to general practitioners and general practitioners, I assume that you will allow the distribution to take place through the ambulatory pharmacy, because it is still happening through the hospital pharmacy. We have a habit of using such preparations in the first line. The HIV virus inhibitors are also distributed via the pharmacy. That's something to think about, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u13	The connection to Mrs. Depoorter has dropped.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u14	Minister, I am still amazed at how light you are about it. There's a lot of pay, but you've signed a secret contract. In your reply we have no reference whatsoever to the content of these negotiations or the way in which they were conducted. The price we have to pay for these drugs has to concern us. It is not normal that we should not be informed about this. Everyone knows the cost of a PCR test, we know how much a PCR test costs the taxpayer. However, for the medicine, all this is done in the greatest secrecy. Molnupiravir, for example, is a medicine developed in the fight against flu and ebola, but recycled as part of the covid control. That medicine is worth its fee, but I do not understand why it is obviously of no concern to you whether we are paying a correct price. International studies show that the cost of production for this treatment is EUR 15, but in the United States the demand price is currently EUR 624 per treatment. I find it very strange that nothing is said about it. Even in the opinions of the task force itself, we see no consideration of the price against the benefits. That never ceases to amaze me. I don't think that's normal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u15	Minister, as far as I am concerned, you have answered each of my questions. The choices are made objectively. Thank you and know that you are following this very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your full answers. You are more than right to stress that virus inhibitors are not an alternative to the vaccine. Vaccination remains important, and we must continue to emphasise this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u17	I don't have any extra questions right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u18	That way we can close the topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u19	Mr President, Minister, the approval of the Novavax vaccine by the EEA means that five vaccines have now been approved for the European market. Our country, if I understand correctly, has ordered 500,000 doses of this vaccine. It is not yet clear when the first vaccines can be administered. Europe has ordered 200 million doses of the vaccine. I understand that a message has come from the Netherlands today that Novavax would not be able to comply with the vaccination deliveries requested. That is an important element, I believe. Minister, I would like to know from you when we can expect these deliveries and, above all, how they will be deployed. Are they being considered as booster vaccines? Why is that, or why not? Are there any results on effectiveness, especially against the Omikron variant?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u20	Mr President, on 20 December last year, the European Medicines Agency approved the Nuvaxovid vaccine of the American company Novavax as the fifth vaccine for COVID-19 vaccination in Europe. Nuvaxovid is a so-called subunit protein vaccine. It contains small particles that mimic the coronavirus spike protein, against which the body produces antibodies. The primary vaccination course consists of two doses at least three weeks apart. From the second half of February, 510,000 doses of Nuvaxovid will be delivered in our country, spread over the months of February and March. With this delivery, up to 170,000 people can be vaccinated with this vaccine. We take into account that these people will also need a booster in the future and await further scientific data for this. The EEA has not yet provided market access for the vaccine to be used as a booster. Based on the advice of the Task Force Vaccination, the IMC has decided to use Nuvaxovid for primary vaccination in first, people at high risk of serious allergic reactions to the components of the vaccines currently used in the Belgian vaccination campaign, and second, people who have already had a serious adverse reaction following vaccination with one of these vaccines. Persons already known for allergology in the reference centres or who previously received a certificate will be able to be vaccinated by that route. Since these two conditions relate to a limited number of people of an estimated 3,000, the Länder are free to offer the Nuvaxovid vaccine to other groups according to the principle of first come, first served. This may include unvaccinated care staff and individuals who have developed a phobia against the other vaccines, the efficacy and safety of which has nevertheless been extensively scientifically proven. The registration platforms BRUVAX and QVAX can be used to refer citizens who soon want to be vaccinated with the Nuvaxovid vaccine in a number of vaccination centres. The results of two main clinical trials showed that Nuvaxovid was effective in preventing COVID-19 in humans from 19 years of age. In total, more than 45,000 people were involved in the studies. In the first study, about two thirds of the subjects received the vaccine. The others received a placebo injection. In the other study, participants were equally divided between Nuvaxovid or placebo. So people didn't know if they'd been given Nuvaxovid or a placebo. The first study conducted in Mexico and the USA showed a 90.4% decrease in the number of symptomatic COVID-19 cases in people receiving Nuvaxovid from seven days after the second dose. There were more concrete 14 cases on 17,312 people. In people who received placebo, these were 63 people out of 8,140. This means that the vaccine had an efficacy of 90.4% in these studies. The second study, conducted in the UK, also showed a similar reduction in the number of symptomatic COVID-19 cases in people receiving Nuvaxovid, in particular 10 cases of 7,020 people, compared to those receiving placebo, particularly 96 out of 7,019 people. The efficacy in this study was 89.7 %. Overall, the two clinical studies show a vaccine effectiveness for Nuvaxovid of approximately 90%. The original strain of Sars-CoV-2 and some worrying variants such as alpha and beta were the most common viral strains circulating when the studies were under way. There are currently limited data on the efficacy of Nuvaxovid against other worrying variants, including omikron. Adverse reactions of Nuvaxovid observed in the studies were usually mild or moderate and resolved within a few days after vaccination. The most common were injection site tenderness or pain, fatigue, muscle pain, headache, general feeling unwell, joint pain and nausea or vomiting. Safety and efficacy of the vaccine will be monitored, although used in the EU, through the EU pharmacovigilance system and additional studies by the company and the European authorities
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u21	Minister, I find it absolutely reassuring that you are giving the Länder the opportunity to offer vaccine doubters, people who have an background or are afraid, the chance to choose a protein vaccine together with their doctor instead of the mRNAs. We have to do everything we can to get as many people vaccinated as possible. Certainly to the care providers that is a very nice signal to boost the vaccination rate. Of course, it makes sense that you give priority to people whose conscience is that they have an allergy or medical history, but it is a good signal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u22	Mr Minister, I wanted to say the same thing as Mrs Depoorter. It is indeed a good thing that you allow these vaccines to be used to convince doubters. After all, there are some people who are afraid of mRNA technology. In that sense, this is certainly a good decision from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u23	Mr Minister, my question is dated, because I am still talking about the fourth wave. Meanwhile, the fifth corona wave seems to be on its way, at least as far as the number of infections is concerned. Fortunately, we have also seen in this wave that there has been a relatively small impact on hospitals and intensive care compared to the number of infections and that mortality is rather limited. I think we're back to normal mortality now. However, hospitals have been through a number of things. My questions are about what we have learned from the past waves, Minister. Has there been a debriefing with the hospital sector after each wave? If so, when and in what way was this understood? Are there any documents of these debriefings and where can they be found? If not, why was this not organised? What proposals have been put forward by the sector and what consequences have been given to them? What were the most urgent points? Have these been dealt with? Was a plan drawn up for the hospital sector to make it more crisis-proof? If so, what does this plan look like? What measures have been taken to guarantee the hands of the bed in times of crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u24	The Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee (HTSC), which is chaired by our FOD and is composed of representatives from all public authorities, Defence, the hospital domes, the associations of chief doctors and nursing management, supplemented by experts, such as the chairman of the Belgian Association of Intensive Medicine, has kept an eye on hospitals through the various waves of this pandemic. It has also adjusted immediately where necessary. For the sake of clarity, the covid peaks within hospitals are alternated with periods of accelerated overtaking of care. The crisis within hospitals must therefore not only be seen as the covid peaks. The crisis within hospitals has continued to rage at full speed, even between the peaks, and this has been going on for two years now. So there hasn't been much time and space for reflection within the sector. However, this has not prevented the sector from continuously setting up improvement projects on its own initiative, but also under the direction of the HTSC. In addition to the continuous self-evaluation and adjustment within the HTSC itself, a research report on the functioning and measures of the HTSC was requested at the Federal Knowledge Centre for Health Care after the first corona wave. This report was delivered in December 2020, towards the end of the second corona wave. The five first recommendations of this report are as follows: Firstly, hospital emergency plans need to be strengthened and a pandemic element added. A protocol agreement was concluded within the IMC Public Health to allow the Public Health Office to take on a coordinating role in the process of adjusting the hospital emergency plan. In order to obtain the necessary expertise, a public invitation to tender was issued by the FPS Public Health. This procedure was completed at the beginning of December and work will start in the spring of this year. Secondly, the HTSC should be transformed into a permanent body with legal decision-making powers. We have complied with Article 13 of the Law of 4 November 2020 on various social measures under the COOVID-19 pandemic. The legal anchoring will take place on 31 December, but the necessary steps have been taken for structural anchoring after that date. The third recommendation is to strengthen and support care staff. Important investments have been made, such as in the Health Care Staff Fund. Social agreements have been concluded and the Länder have also taken initiatives. That is an important first step. Fourthly, the hospital sector must be reformed. We need to identify the type and volume of hospital capacity, intermediate and outpatient capacity, in terms of staff (quantitative and qualitative) and in terms of beds and resources needed to be prepared for future crisis situations. It is also about the role and capacity that other actors can fulfil, for example Defence, also with a view to alternatives to classical hospital care, such as home care, residential care for the elderly or rehabilitation care. The future need for hospital beds depends on the availability of these alternatives. As part of the reform of the hospital sector, I would like to consider this with the Federal Hospital Services Council. How do we look at the current capacity, so the bed structure? That's an important shipyard. The fifth recommendation is to roll out a data system for IC departments at national level. This would allow real-time or very short-term monitoring of the availability and use of intensive care, including patient characteristics and outcomes. Measuring is knowing. The data collection has evolved through the crisis, the collection of the surge data is also regulated. The variables have been evaluated in terms of content. The booster vaccination was recently added. But the voluntary clinical data questionnaire, which was very extensive, was also subject to a re-evaluation and adaptation. Real-time monitoring remains an important yard. So we're not where we're supposed to be yet. So far the survey of the yards that have already been started and which have been launched but still need to be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u25	Minister, I can certainly imagine the lack of time between the different waves. In the last two years, it's never been calm in the hospitals. I understand the hospitals didn't give that priority. At the same time, I believe that the government should take these first steps and take initiatives. And I miss that. The analysis by the KCE of the HTSC operation was a very good initiative. Important findings have been put forward there. It's also a good thing you want to work on that. But I hear from the hospitals that there has been no consistent and structural exchange of information after every peak load by covid. The hospitals didn't know about each other what the situation was like in each hospital, or where there were improvement points. The hospitals have taken initiatives to better deal with it internally. There is also a role for the government. The hospital sector has, quite rightly, received a lot of resources. After all, we had to control that crisis. At the same time, I think it is part of a hospital-by-hospital review of what happened to it and how we can be better able to cope with a subsequent crisis. It is also a sign of the involvement of a government when it is consistently and structurally questioned and, in particular, when the data are exchanged among themselves. We are in a crisis without previous crises and must take the opportunity to learn all the lessons we can and take them to a next crisis, which hopefully is still far from us, but which we can almost predict will come.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u26	Mr. Chair, Minister, we are currently facing a difficult phenomenon for our hospitals, which already need nurses. Since the opening of the covid vaccination centres, many nurses will be working in these centres – which are needed – mainly because of the remuneration offered that would be much higher than the hourly schedules received by their counterparts in hospital facilities. These benefits also benefit from a favourable tax system, since they are referred to as State aid. These remunerations seem to have been agreed with INAMI for all regions, in particular to avoid competition between them. That's obviously a good thing. However, the problem now in the field is that many interim nurses choose to go to these centres rather than to go to the hospital sector and are therefore less available on the front line; moreover, paid nurses complete their hours with benefits at these same vaccination centres, whereas they could also do so within the hospital network. Minister, are any measures envisaged to avoid this "future" of staff – their role being important also in vaccination centres – that makes the situation in hospitals untenable? Are alternative solutions envisaged to allow immunization centres to operate without the need to employ nurses who are essential for hospital care? What new concrete initiatives are you planning to address the shortage and avoid the closure of beds when hospitalizations are important in this fourth wave – even if the situation is changing positively – and it is essential to avoid delays in care?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u27	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, it has been weeks since the health care sector rang the alarm. Although the omicron variant is less virulent than previous variants, general practitioners and staff in nursing homes remain overwhelmed, while front-line care is a key step in assessing the severity of cases and recommending hospitalization if necessary. In addition, the availability of health care staff is much lower than usual due to seasonal diseases, but also to covid contamination and thus quarantine. Similarly, the most difficult care services would now be deserted in favour of so-called more attractive alternatives – in particular working in Luxembourg or in vaccination centres. Nevertheless, measures have already been mentioned to relieve the care sector from this situation, such as the involvement of unemployed people with skills in the care sector, the voluntary return of pensioners, the use of medical or nursing students by allowing them to exceed the usual quota of 475 hours per year, and the call to the Defence for so-called non-medical tasks. In addition, it is also possible, recently, to obtain via Masanté.be a code to make an appointment for a free PCR test that would be performed after a positive autotest. However, the question remains whether all this is now sufficient to respond to the call for assistance from the health care sector. Are other options being explored to relieve caregivers? Finally, Minister, are there any consultations with representatives of the professions that may be affected, including outside our hospitals?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u28	Minister, through the healthcare barometer you would check weekly for the hustle and bustle in the healthcare sector. Is that care barometer working yet? If so, what is taken into account? How does that express itself? You have also announced a number of measures. The buddy effect would take shape again. To what extent has that already been prepared or framed? How will you also provide additional support for home nurses in this still difficult period? It was announced that administrative tasks would be outsourced. Is that a fact yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u29	Minister, I see a great deal of frustration among my fellow house doctors, because they feel more like a medical secretariat or telephone exchange than a real general practitioner: they have to create codes, write certificates, record phones. As a result, they see their chronic patients far too little and cannot accept their other essential tasks. If the large locks are opened, if we do not invest in prevention or support for primary care, then the situation can no longer be maintained for the general practitioners. The impact of the pandemic on primary care will be enormous, even in the long term. For this reason, it is important to consider investment in support of primary care, which needs to be structurally embedded in the long term, so that the general practitioner can pay more attention to prevention. One of the projects you started in January 2021 and that ended in December 2021, the community health workers, is already a good first step. How do you evaluate the project? What are the results? Do you have the funding and therefore the project stopped or do you intend to extend it? Do you intend to take further concrete measures to relieve primary care from administration and support the core tasks? What measures do you intend to take and within what timeframe? What do you think of Dr. Jan Van Emelen, the coordinator of Malle's vaccination centre, who suggested that the knowledge and data gained from the corona crisis should not be lost and that experience should be used for a permanent prevention centre? There is now a momentum to consolidate cooperation. There is trust between all actors. The prevention centre could work on infectious diseases, such as COVID-19 and flu, as well as around chronic diseases, traumatology and mental well-being. The prevention centre would have a physical location whose capacity will be adjusted according to the needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u30	Colleagues, I pay particular attention to the workload in the health care sector, its persistence and the monitoring of the working conditions of our health professionals. Concertations are actually under way and several areas of work are being thoroughly analysed. You're quoting some of them. No leads will provide a miracle solution, and a combination of solutions will be required. The problem of retention of nurses in the health care sector is indeed a crucial issue. I have, in collaboration with the federated entities, set up a task force to define the conditions for the implementation of a new model of functions in nursing art. This model, proposed by the nursing sector, would aim, among other things, to increase the attractiveness of the nursing training stream, but also to enable nursing practitioners to develop career opportunities within the care sector. Clear measures, including the important aspect of the administrative discharge, will be proposed and should improve the retention of nurses in the health care sector. I will be listening to the conclusions of this task force, expected by the end of January. In addition, significant investments are being made in the health care sector. On the one hand, the White Blouse Fund helps to improve the employment and supervision of nursing practitioners and the attractiveness of these professions, through the funding of training and support for mentoring projects, the creation of jobs for care and support staff, which relieves healthcare workers, in order to enable them to increase their effective time for patient care, and measures to improve the working conditions of staff. On the other hand, the social agreement provides for measures to improve the quality of working conditions by concluding collective agreements in the private sector and memorandums of understanding in the public sector. It is also an additional envelope for skilled nurses, which supports workers who continue to train and specialize in our health care system. In addition to specialized nurses, there must be opportunities for all caregivers. The work that follows the social agreement has not been completed. We need to see how our care sector can be further supported. That is why this specialisation supplement must also be part of a broader set of short-, medium- and long-term measures, of course within the existing budgetary framework. It is up to us to define and draw it up jointly with the social partners and the actors on the ground. Finally, as you will be aware, at the end of last year the emergency law, the law amending the law of 4 November 2020 on various social measures under the covid pandemic, was adopted in this Parliament. This emergency law is now in force and allows other qualified staff, i.e. non-doctors and non-nurses, to be employed in the test centres and vaccination centres if they are framed in a structured care equipe. Students in medicine, nursing and students in labs, midwifes, dentists, pharmacists, pharmaceutical assistants, logopedists, ambulances with two years of experience, dental hygienists, medical laboratory technicians and healthcare professionals can be employed in this way and ensure that the essential presence of nurses within hospitals and other healthcare institutions is preserved. I come to Mrs Merckx's questions about the community health workers, indeed an initiative that I think is very important. A mid-term evaluation was carried out in mid-October and was presented to the guidance committee on 16 November. In accordance with the agreement with the RIZIV, an activity report will be transmitted to the RIZIV, no later than two months after the expiry of the agreement, which is at the end of February 2022. This final report will include the results of the qualitative research project carried out by the University of Antwerp. The data was collected until mid-September and the researchers are busy processing it and writing the report. The project has been renewed for 12 months. On the one hand, it is clear that, in this crisis, it is still necessary to take outreach initiatives towards vulnerable neighbourhoods, and on the other hand, we want to evaluate it further. The project was not fully implemented until June 2021, which meant that the time was too short to carry out a thorough evaluation. Results will be collected again by the summer. You asked about other initiatives and referred to Dr. Van Emelen. Several initiatives have indeed been taken to ensure that the patient who seeks information or needs a certificate, but does not require medical care, finds an answer without having to go to his or her doctor. This includes the tools that allow citizens to assess their own mild symptoms, identify their high-risk contacts or themselves as high-risk contacts, and obtain a CCPC that allows them to be tested, without having to ask their doctor for a prescription or a quarantine certificate. Above all, primary medicine should be able to concentrate on those who are really ill and need care, whether or not because of COOVID-19, without having to deal with a whole series of mainly administrative requests. Consultation with the first line has also focused over the past period on possible ways of restarting the triage centres set up at the start of the health crisis. Those centres were established at the time because of the massive influx of patients who reported directly to the emergency services of hospitals while their health condition did not require hospitalisation, but also because of the lack of personal protective equipment at that time. Today, this system of triage can provide a reinforcement of the watch stations of general medical practice in order to accommodate more patients at night or at weekends. As you know, the initiatives taken in the context of crisis management were the result of ongoing consultation with the Länder. They have taken responsibility for the organisation of vaccination centres and, of course, are also responsible for prevention. So I certainly cannot decide unilaterally on the future of vaccination centres. Everyone is prepared to learn lessons from the crisis, including the mechanisms that have been put in place and which could offer opportunities beyond the crisis period. One example is the structural introduction of outbreak support teams in both hospitals and the first line. However, similar questions are also asked about the sustainability of certain electronic applications, such as the registration and exchange of health information. The understanding that the local regional level should play a key role in the organisation of integrated care, which is part of prevention, but equally neighborhood-oriented primary health care and welfare, has recently increased significantly and has been strongly confirmed with the approach of the COOVID-19 pandemic. As I announced in my policy paper, I am working on an integrated care plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u31	Minister, you are giving a somewhat lean answer. The task force Nursing will deliver a report at the end of January, but we have known this for so long now. Covid blew out two candles. In those two years there was really the need to think structuralally about what we see. You say that you will look at the attractiveness of the training and that you will work on administrative lighting. The latter could have been implemented by now. As far as the attractiveness of the profession is concerned, we know very well that the biggest problem arises in the first three to six months in which someone boards the care. So we should be focusing on onboarding, with frameworking and guidance for people who come to work in the care sector. We know that for a long time, but that has now become very clear and can be addressed. Another problem concerns specialization. We are all convinced that the specialization of nurses is very important and that we should look at the introduction of a paid internship, as the side-influx was provided in Flanders. There is a great deal of money in the fund for the future of medical care. This is worth EUR 45 million a year. It could be an idea to use the resources resulting from this to frame nurses. In your reply, you are again quoting the emergency law, which you forgot to renew. I have asked you enough about it in the short term in the vaccination centres, but I have not heard anything about the health buddies and the IZ buddies in your reply. However, they are essential to ensure short-term resilience in care and to address the issue in a structural way in the long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answers. Some will probably see the glass half empty. I see it which is filling up positively even if we would like it to go faster. However, I see a series of consistent measures to make the nursing profession attractive in terms of organization, consideration, scales and training. So I see progress after years of health shortages – for which you are not responsible. It is now a question of structuring change. In the meantime, positive signals will have to be sent to the nursing sector to give it the motivation to stay in the position. I'm counting on you for that. My group will always be with you when it comes to taking measures that contribute to having more staff at the bedside of our patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u33	Minister, I have not learned much about the measures that I have listed for you earlier and that you have been listing us for months. This applies above all to measures to relieve healthcare staff of administrative procedures, which take far too much time to the detriment of patients. This worries me because these measures exist but are slow to be felt on the ground. When Mr Rigot says that the opposition tends to see the glass half empty, it is mainly because the situation is felt as such by the healthcare staff, who keep alerting us about their working conditions, which remain extremely difficult. I hear that you are attentive to workload and penitibility, but, curiously, at the same time you refuse to recognize the penitibility of these occupations for access to pension. The same applies to the double reserve system which I have already mentioned on several occasions. It is known that there are a large number of qualified nurses who no longer practise precisely because of difficult working conditions. It would be interesting to go to them, from their insurer to continue training, rather than to ask for people who are not legally qualified. With regard to the expected collective agreement, it is positive and I hope that it will recognize the diversity of the health care workforce. There is a lot of talk about hospital staff, but I also want to make it clear that there are caregivers, general practitioners, or home nurses. I find that you quote them far too little in all of your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u34	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Firstly, about the community health workers, you once stated that the project would continue. I also asked written questions about it. You didn't go into much detail about the contents of the report. However, we shall certainly read it and follow it up. As regards support for the first line, I shall first of all talk about the future of vaccination centres. I can see that this is really a debate that everyone is having. At the same time, however, no real decision is taken. I'd really like to call not to throw the kid away with the bathwater. By the end of September 2021, all vaccination centres have already been closed. Some had to be re-opened. Continue with the centres, with the positive cooperation that has been there and the prevention that has been there, and with a way of working together without being in a performance model. We really need to go further in order to effectively play the preventive role that the first-line zones should be able to take up. This should be further developed, possibly in smaller centres. Don't throw away the call centers that are doing the contract tracing now. Get on with it, to turn them on and to include budgets in the preventive functions that can be included in the fight against infection, but also, of course, in many other preventive cases in which our country is really weak. The last thing I wanted to say is that there's a lot of hesitation. It is always said that this needs to be looked at with the regions. Indeed, we have the big problem of being federally funded in Belgium for treating a patient and preventing illness is a regional issue. That's just unnatural. After all, the first line has both a preventive and a curative role. The covid crisis has shown this very clearly. It is therefore important to work on, firstly, cooperation but also, of course, secondly, a re-federalisation of the whole function of the general practitioner. I am also talking, for example, about the programme. The general practitioners ask for a strengthening of general practitioners' practices with, for example, nurses, medical secretaries or people who are medically trained to assist them in the follow-up of patients. This is sometimes about prevention and sometimes more curative aspects. That can't be pulled apart. Roel Van Giel, for example, has come to the committee to discuss a project on calling patients at risk of osteoporosis, in order to examine with them how they can better deal with this preventively. That is entirely in line with preventive and curative measures. That is, of course, another task for the general practitioners, in which we must assist them. There is also a real need for decisions to strengthen the first line. These days, the general practitioners are really the victims of the fact that there are nine health ministers in this country, which means that there is no coherent policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u35	These questions may already be dated. You sat together on last Friday's Council of Ministers on this matter. What's the outcome? In the text originally distributed, April 1 was the starting date. Now you focus on July 1st. In your publications in the press, you say that it is not yet certain. In the meantime, many care providers who have comments or do not want or are unable to be vaccinated live in uncertainty. How do you deal with that? You just said that worried people or people who cannot receive mRNA vaccine for medical reasons will be able to use that protein vaccine from mid-February. Will they have the whole vaccine effectively on 1 July? They will have to be tested more often. Is that at the expense of the care provider himself? We've had a number of hearings on mandatory vaccination. The representatives of the Federal Institute of Human Rights have answered my question very clearly about the proportionality of dismissal. That was not interpreted by them as proportional. How are the conversations going about that? What is the government's consensus? How will you proceed with these sanctions? Is dismissal still in the government's plans? Do you think that the mandatory vaccination of care is still under discussion today, given the fact that omikron and the fact that vaccines cannot really be sterilized? There can be no proof that there is no longer any transmission to the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u36	Minister, the mandatory vaccination of staff was initially decided at the Interdepartmental Conference on 14 July and concreted by the Codeco on 20 August. It was therefore after months of drafting that your draft bill was forwarded to the Council of State, which delivered its opinion in early January. Today is 8 February – more than a month after this opinion – and no adapted text has yet been delivered to Parliament. However, we are supposed to complete our work on generalised compulsory vaccination by 23 February. Generalised compulsory vaccination had also been requested by a part of the health care staff who refused to be the only target of compulsory vaccination and the related sanctions. A few days ago, we learned that your government decided to postpone the entry into force of this compulsory vaccination confined to health care personnel, so that the initial deadlines of January 1 and April 1 would be postponed to April 1 and July 1. By way of explanation, we have heard everything and its opposite! Some members of your government wanted to question the need to implement the measure on 1 April for timing reasons, believing that the changing health situation would no longer justify this measure today. Others had more political reasons, namely that if Parliament were to conclude that compulsory vaccination was ultimately not retained because of the lack of consensus among the experts we have heard, it would be difficult for your government to "sell" the vaccination obligation of the only healthcare staff. Minister, when can we expect to receive your bill on mandatory vaccination of health care workers for consideration in Parliament? Have you given up this project or is it a matter of postponing its implementation? Is it just a postponement? How would an entry into force be more justified by the health situation in July than in April as originally planned? How long would the project be put in the fridge? Do you consider that the initial guidelines would be postponed until April 1 for the entry into force and July 1 for the effective implementation of the sanctions? If so, why and how were these new dates selected? Did the timing of the hearings on compulsory vaccination for all, but above all their content, influence these postponement decisions? If so, to what extent? Finally, what is the future of this bill if Parliament does not legislate for compulsory vaccination for all? Some members of your government have announced that in this case, it would ultimately be difficult to legislate on the specific obligation for caregivers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the principle of compulsory vaccination must be enshrined in our legislation. At the same time, we must give ourselves the opportunity to think carefully about when this principle is being implemented. It is about the context in which it is really considered necessary that this principle of universally compulsory vaccination for those who work in care, with a care profession, should be enforced, with concrete consequences for those who do not have vaccination. The reason why I made this proposal is not so much because we are a few weeks behind in the actual timing. That is true, we are a few weeks behind, because of the opinion of the Council of State and then the extensive discussion about it. However, it is more fundamental. At the moment, when we are apparently past the peak of omikron, now that we have had to deal with a variant that was very contagious but not so sickening, so that people may have started asking more questions than before about the need to generally require vaccination, imposing that obligation would not be good in the very short term. Now's not the time to do that. However, it is important to anchor this obligation in the legislation. The easiest way to do that is to register this principle in the law and prepare it for implementation. A date must then be put on that. I have proposed to the government to go before 1 April as the beginning of the transitional period in which people can still be tested if they have not been vaccinated and before 1 July as the beginning of effective obligation. We are setting a date so that it is very concrete and the instrument is really ready. At the same time, we are giving ourselves the opportunity to shift that time window and really activate it at an appropriate time. My approach to this is not so different from what I personally think about a vaccination certificate, in the context of the discussion on the Covid Ticket. I would prefer the CT to be reduced to a mere vaccination certificate. It is an instrument that can be very useful at times, but not at other times. The CT can be very useful in a new wave, when there are a lot of infections and there is a risk that the hospital sector will have difficulty again, so that care has to be postponed. It makes absolutely sense to say that we want to organise life for a number of activities on the basis of a vaccination certificate. However, if there is little viral circulation and there is no threat to the care, it does not make sense. For me, a Covid Ticket, which I would like to see evolved into a mere vaccination certificate, is an instrument that must be in the toolbox, that must be ready and that must be able to be used quickly. In fact, this also applies to the Passenger Locator Form, the whole system with which you can follow passenger traffic. You shouldn't do that all the time, only when you need to. It's like an umbrella, which one only opens when it rains hard. When the sun shines, it stays in the umbrella stand. Requirements for the care staff to be vaccinated should depend on the development of the epidemic and on possible virus variants, the development of new vaccines and the associated insights. I would not want the instrument to become unusable or difficult to re-launch. That is why I have proposed to my colleagues that this should be enshrined in the legislation so that it can be used at the appropriate time. According to Mrs. Depoorter, that creates uncertainty. It does create uncertainty as to whether we will implement it. We are taking some time to think about this, but I would like that legislation to come about now. Even then, it will take time to think about it. After all, it requires a thorough understanding of developments that we do not know enough now, even when it comes to the development of vaccines. That is certainly an element of uncertainty, but so there are a lot of them. Those uncertainties didn't go away. There may be further outbreaks and variants. That is why we need to prepare the toolbox. We can differ on what's in there. You may think that there should be no Covid Ticket in that. I can believe that this should include a vaccination certificate, even if it is not often used. I can believe that there should be a mandatory vaccination of the care staff. You may object to that. My point is that if there is a majority in Parliament for this, it is best to embed it in the legislation and put it in the toolbox. That's what it's really about.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u38	Minister, the good thing about parliamentary hearings is for Members to participate and listen. The sad thing is that the government doesn't care much about that. We had three days last week and one day the previous week hearings which were of a very rich level. There many different bodies have clearly indicated that the creation of a framework for compulsory vaccination is absolutely not advisable. Why not? Because the epidemiological situation can change, because the effects of the vaccines can change and because it is undemocratic to create a framework for introducing vaccination obligations through an RB. We are entering a democratic process in this covid pandemic for the first time, in particular hearings with Parliament, and then a framework would be created to ensure that Parliament is excluded again. That is a first essential observation of your speech. Then I come to the mandatory vaccination for the care staff. You started on July 14th. There is no agreement in the government, because there are different approaches. Your colleague, the Minister for Work, was not prepared to include it in the legislation on safety at work, as has happened with hepatitis. Then you go to half a vaccination obligation, where one person working in the care would be subject to vaccination and the other person working in the care would not. There is very little clarity in that. We're so many months later now. Certain care providers really don't know what they're up to. Minister, I do not think it is a good path. It is not a good path, because there is a great deal of diversity within the government, because there is a lot of uncertainty to the care providers and because the experts have clearly indicated that a framework is not democratic. Let us go for clear legislation and legislation that can be interpreted effectively by citizens and by healthcare providers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u39	Minister, thank you for your answers. Let's be clear, my Defi party has always argued for mandatory vaccination of health care workers. We support you in this endeavour. Today's problem is that of timing – I am very concerned – around the implementation of a measure that was announced before the fourth and fifth waves. Today, you tell us that the time is no longer right to implement it. It seems to me that you agree with the arguments put forward by the various speakers during the hearings on compulsory vaccination, except that the same experts also stressed how uncertain the future was, which is why they had put forward the idea of establishing a general legislative framework to list the criteria that would enable us to activate the vaccination obligation at some point. But this view has been given regarding the general obligation and not the obligation confined to health-care workers! So I wonder why you intend to retain this idea only for the healthcare staff, whereas for the rest of the population, you persist with this idea of vaccination pass which aims to completely exclude people who have suffered from covid, who have cured them and who therefore have some immunity. We know how many these people are with the wave omicron.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u40	I'm asking you to close.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u41	You're talking about the right time. I wonder why you think April 1 is a more timely time than today. This requires clear criteria. Should we wait for the sixth wave to consider this a timely time? Mr Minister, I find it rather curious that you consider that the health situation today is good enough than to postpone the entry into force of this compulsory vaccination, but serious enough that to justify today measures that violate fundamental freedoms, such as the strengthening of the CST, its forthcoming transformation into a vaccine pass or the continued closure of certain sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u42	Mr Minister, the delay shows that you are afraid of the redundancies in the healthcare sector and its consequences. It is not clear how you will cope with this in the short term. You did not answer those questions. You have not told us what you will do if you remove the measures of mandatory vaccination from your toolbox. A potential loss of 9.4 % of the workforce in a sector that is already lacking in the most literal sense of the word, raises questions. Whatever you're starting to challenge is the usefulness of the CST. Remarkable is that the CST is now called CT, the Covid Ticket, in which the safe element has disappeared. If I wanted to be angry, I could also think that the potential outflow of unvaccinated care workers in Wallonia and Brussels is much greater and that this is one of the underlying reasons for postponing mandatory vaccination in the healthcare sector. Let's just be realistic. The momentum for compulsory vaccination is also over in the healthcare sector. The reason for the delay may be that you cannot cope with the consequences of compulsory vaccination in the healthcare sector. I don't think we should find out much more.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u43	My question concerns the SalvaHIS study by Sciensano, which was published in November 2021. This is a study of saliva samples collected between March and August 2021. The number of antibodies present in the saliva was investigated through a sample. That led to some notable findings. Vaccines with chronic conditions develop less antibodies. People who received a flu vaccine have a higher level of antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 following a covid vaccine. Non-vaccines with blood type O have fewer antibodies. Unvaccinated women have fewer antibodies than unvaccinated men. Healthcare providers are generally more vaccinated, but this connection is much stronger in Flanders than in Wallonia. Young women are less likely to be vaccinated. I asked you about this earlier, because there is a great deal of concern among women of childbearing age. The main reasons for not being vaccinated would be fear of side effects, mistrust of the rapid development of vaccines and mistrust of their effectiveness. For all the findings that emerged from the study, can you indicate what policy actions might be linked to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u44	I will give a brief answer, not so much because the question would be premature, but because I cannot yet give a very meaningful concrete answer. All the research that we are doing is a research by Sciensano's aim is to formulate policy advice. This then runs through our advisory bodies, such as the RAG, the GEMS and the High Health Council. With this study, it's no different. In other words, it is not the case that, on the basis of this study, we will determine our policies directly and immediately. However, the results are also reflected in the opinions of other advisory bodies. There are also purely scientific issues. I mean that one cannot immediately draw a campaign or organizational conclusion. For example, the combination between the flu vaccine and the covid vaccine is an important issue, but this needs to be studied further in purely scientific terms. The results are also shared between the people who are working on them, but I do not dare to anticipate them today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u45	Minister, I understand that it is a cog in a large complex of studies carried out at international level and that it has to be looked at in that context, but I found certain points in it which I believe require concrete action. It is mainly the last two points I mentioned about the concern of young women. Has that been taken up enough? I asked you about that a long time ago. That's when the anxiety lived. We then heard from hospitals that there were often dramatic recordings of pregnant women who had to be turned on their stomachs, which is really not obvious, or who could not be turned on their stomachs because they were already too far in their pregnancy, making it very difficult to care for those people in a hospital environment. Then painful things were established. Can it not happen again with such findings, especially now that a study has shown, also about the fear of side effects and the mistrust that exists with regard to the newer types of vaccines? I know that this is explained, but perhaps it would be good to go a little more specific and to spread that information even more widely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u46	Mr Minister, another dated question, because it is still about the third wave. We've gone a little further, but the question about disease progression remains relevant. At different waves we had to deal with different variants. There seems to be a certain evolution in the sickening ability of the variants. I was wondering if an analysis had been made of the severity of the disease. Meanwhile, it is clear that the course is milder, although we do not know what the future will bring. I would like to know if there is a difference in the course of disease in vaccinees and non-vaccines. I never got an answer to the question and I do not find them in the Sciensano reports, whether an average number of days can be given for the regular recordings and recordings on intensive care for every wave and covid variant. This is useful information to assess the severity of a wave. I know that you will say that the occupation of a hospital is particularly important for the severity of the epidemic, but the number of days laid down per individual patient is also important. Is there any use of medium-care beds? Are they catalogued as ordinary recordings or as recordings in intensive care? What about funding those beds?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u47	Mrs. Gijbels, I'm not reading you all the Sciensano reports. Actually, you're asking questions about things that are published. I'll give you a few elements. Analyses have been carried out on the evolution of the severity of the disease progression. For example, the number of hospitalisations per 100 cases detected since the start of the vaccination campaign has changed significantly. While during the second wave, around 7 out of 100 covid cases required hospitalisation, this decreased to 2.5 hospitalisations in 100 covid cases in early July 2021. This has remained stable since then between 2 % and 4 %. However, due to the recent sharp increase in viral circulation, large numbers of patients are still hospitalized per week. You will find the full result in the thematic report 'Vaccination rate and epidemiological impact of the COVID-19 vaccination campaign in Belgium', published on the website of Sciensano. Non-vaccine subjects show a more severe course of disease than fully vaccinated subjects. You will find all this also in the thematic report mentioned above. The duration of admission and admission to ICU of hospitalized patients has been captured in the Clinical Hospital Survey. There's a three to four weeks delay in registration there. In general, the median duration of uptake is nine days in the first wave, nine days in the second wave, eight days in the third wave and six days in the fourth wave. The median duration of admission to ICU is nine days in the first wave, eight days in the second wave, nine days in the third wave and five days in the fourth wave. Medium-care beds are not seen as a specific character letter in our hospitals. The mediumcarenet, like the beds on intensive care, is organized by the hospitals within general recognition letters: surgery, internal medicine and so on. Since no specific character letter was assigned to these beds, there are also no specific financial calculations other than those for the general character letter. You know that organizing medium care beds for covid is the objective of limiting the number of patients to intensive care. They can therefore be used as a step-up bed when a patient is not yet critical enough for intensive care but is already in need of more thorough observation and monitoring, or as a step-down bed when the patient can leave intensive care but is just not stable enough to be cared for in a classic nursing department. The typical example of medium care is the covid high oxygen care bed, a bed outside intensive care but with increased monitoring capacities and especially increased oxygen administration capacities, without mechanical ventilation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u48	Minister, you referred to Sciensano's figures. You can excuse me, the question is already a few months old, when the registration was even less detailed. In the meantime, that has indeed improved. With regard to the median of the number of days I will do some more checking, because I did not immediately find that. You referred to the Clinical Hospital Survey, I'll be sure to check it out. I also think it is important that the medium-care beds are used as much as possible and as far as they are justified. I still wonder how this fits within the lump sum payment for covid pathology. Is this within the ordinary bed allowance or within the intensive care allowance? Can you clarify that further?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u49	Would you like to clarify that further, Minister? (No .)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u50	We therefore begin with Mrs Taquin's question. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u51	Minister, this issue has been raised for some time now. While the wearing of the mask – and its obligation also among the smaller ones – is again recalled as an essential measure of the device for combating the spread of the virus, I would like further information on the specific use of the FFP2 mask and the recommendations of the experts on it, especially for the care staff and the most fragile or even the most exposed people according to the places visited. GEMS had recommended the use of these FFP2 masks for vulnerable people and people in contact with them. The FFP2 mask has also been strongly recommended for those in contact with people with the virus. As we know, this type of mask better protects the person by filtering inhaled air. With the omicron variant, many rest homes now require the wearing of this FFP2 mask for visitors. Flanders was the first to impose this mask on the staff of nursing and nursing homes, because if omicron is less dangerous, its spread creates significant problems of staff capacity in all professional sectors. Minister, what recommendations have been made to you recently by the experts regarding the use of the FFP2 mask in view of the evolution of the spread of omicron? Have GEMS experts asked the government to make larger stocks of FFP2? What is currently the status of the strategic stocks for these FFP2 masks? Could you please explain how the recommendations for staff in nursing homes were followed up in the country, but also for staff working in high-risk areas (public transport, closed premises without the possibility of real ventilation, etc.).( )? Finally, at the next interdepartmental conference with Ministers of Education, will we discuss wearing the mask at primary school?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Taquin. Mr Prévot, you have two questions, so you have four minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u53	"Mr. Minister, at the Consultation Committee on 3 December, it was decided to make the oral mask compulsory from the age of six, in order to allow a slowing of the spread of the virus, especially in schools.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u54	Thank you for your answer." Minister, my second question concerns the use of FFP2 masks for the population. Unlike surgical or fabric masks, FFP2 masks are tighter around the nose and mouth and filter aerosols better. In fact, they are, and this is not annoyance, mainly used by health professionals because of their greater exposure. These masks, made mandatory for citizens in certain circumstances in Germany, Italy or Austria, could provide greater protection, particularly in the face of the omicron variant, which, as has been said for several weeks, is clearly much more contagious. Sciensano recommends the FFP2 mask in the first place for long-term caregivers exposed to covid patients, but GEMS goes further and recommends that the government plan more FFP2 masks for vulnerable and at-risk individuals. Minister, can you tell me the state of the federal stock of FFP2 masks? Do you consider it necessary, like other European countries, to make mandatory or at least recommend wearing the FFP2 mask for certain categories of people or for all citizens in places where contacts are important such as public transport? Finally, very important, if the wearing of this type of mask were to be made compulsory and given the far greater cost of it, what measures could be taken to make it more accessible financially, specifically for the most vulnerable?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u55	Mr Minister, in the face of the emergence of the omicron variant, some European countries have imposed the wearing of the FFP2 mask in popular places, especially in public transport. Italy has imposed it in cinemas and theatres and Austria even imposes the wearing of this mask on the outside. The Codeco of 6 January decided to recommend the use of FFP2 masks to vulnerable persons and persons in contact with them or with persons infected with the virus. Alexia Verroken, a physician in the prevention and control of infections at St. Luc's University Clinics, even claims that due to the high circulation of the omicron variant, these people could even wear a mask when they are outside, as in Austria. Minister, why was the decision on FFP2 masks articulated as a recommendation, not an obligation? What exactly is meant by "persons in contact with a vulnerable person"? Does this concept include only long-term contacts, such as within a company, or other shorter types of contacts? Is there efficient communication within the population groups affected by this recommendation? I think of the need to make a feedcheck, i.e. blow to make sure the air doesn't escape too much around the mask. What do you think of the possible imposition of the FFP2 mask on the entire population in some of the most frequented areas? Is the supply chain sufficiently filled up in the face of the increase in purchases of this type of mask resulting from the Codeco decision? In view of the higher prices of FFP2 masks compared to surgical masks, is a refund of these masks possible, at least for the most disadvantaged people? My second question concerns the wearing of the mask at school and refers to the December Codeco's decision to impose the wearing of the mask on children in schools from the first primary, therefore on children of six years of age. It is a measure marked by a certain scepticism on the part of the scientific community. Indeed, many experts claimed that there was no concrete evidence to reduce the transmission of the virus through the wearing of the mask by young children. Today, no fewer than 210 specialists, including teachers and doctors, are calling for this measure to be lifted for children. Through a carte blanche published on 9 January, they highlight all the disadvantages caused by the obligation to wear masks for young children: anxiety in the classroom that pushes some children into a state of chronic stress, fear of going to school or even refusing to go there, over-responsibility of children, fear of being punished in school. These consequences are reflected daily on the ground. I want a friend's daughter to prove it. This little girl, Sophia, nine years old, has a medical certificate that exempts her from wearing the mask in class and that's what got her the bullying of her teacher. She was punished and completely excluded from her classmates. Following the publication of the article which recounted his testimony, his mother received numerous other testimonies from parents who referred to children deprived of a preau, left in the rain, directors who would force the children to wear the mask despite the presentation of a medical certificate or teachers who would give punishment. Minister, what is your position with regard to the recent carte blanche published by these 210 specialists? Is the complete abolition of this measure envisaged, at least at the time of the Codeco on Friday? If so, when can a decision be expected? If not, why? How was the balancing of the advantages and disadvantages of this measure carried out at the December Codeco? How has the best interests of the child been taken into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u56	At its meeting on 22 December, Codeco decided to recommend the wearing of the FFP2 mask as a priority for vulnerable people and care workers. On January 4, 2022, the Interdepartmental Conference on Public Health reviewed the testing and quarantine rules in light of the outbreak of infections caused by omicron and extended the recommendation of wearing the FFP2 mask to persons in quarantine or isolation situations. This recommendation is therefore part of the set of preventive measures to be taken to prevent potentially infected or infected persons from contributing to infecting others. At this stage, wearing the FFP2 mask is mandatory only for caregivers in vulnerable communities, such as nursing and nursing homes. The fact that it preferred a recommendation from wearing the FFP2 mask to a general obligation is the result of a GEMS recommendation, which Codeco has therefore followed. The reasons for this choice are multiple but the most important are in part the price. This mask costs more – about 1 euro coin, often more. In addition, to ensure its effectiveness, it must be changed regularly, on average every eight hours, due to the accumulation of moisture. On the other hand, FFP2 can be a source of discomfort: the more a mask is filtering the more uncomfortable it is. This mask can cause choking in some people. It is therefore to be feared that the generalization of the obligation to wear the FFP2 mask will immediately contravene the protection it is supposed to provide by favouring, for example, the wearing of the same mask several days in a row or a non-compliant and therefore less protective port. For these reasons, we plead at this stage for the use of the FFP2 mask at the same time reasonable and reasoned, favouring it in places where there are many vulnerable people. Of course, it goes without saying that this approach applies to the current situation, but it could be reviewed and adapted to the evolution of the epidemic in our country. As far as the state of the stock is concerned, the federal stock contains, according to my latest figures, 9,177,920 FFP2 masks. The federal stock does not contain oral masks for children and no purchase of these masks is planned. The necessary elements and their respective quantities shall be the subject of the consultation platform for the strategic deployment stock to be established. If it is determined that it is necessary to include it in the federal strategic stock, the necessary steps will be taken to comply with it. The number of hospital requests for FFP2 masks from the federal strategic stock is limited. This number was 22,000 by December 2021 and 36,000 by 20 January 2022. This figure is therefore incomplete. Increased rates of infection did not result in a significant increase in these demands. It can be concluded that there is currently no market distortion and that there is sufficient quality material available on the market. However, the Public Health FPS has only an overview of hospital consumption and stocks, not the entire market. We refer to the SPF Economy, which oversees the market for personal protective equipment. I come to Mrs Rohonyi's question about a possible refund or the price. The issue has been discussed on numerous occasions between my administrations and various patient associations, but also between these same organizations and other administrations. I am thinking of the Occupational Medicine Working Group and the employers of the Employment FPS, for example. There were practical problems with the discussions. The question first arose as to which patient groups could benefit from these FFP2 masks and for which a selective reimbursement would therefore be appropriate. Initially, patient associations were asking for affordable FFP2 oral masks for different groups of patients with specific chronic diseases, who are high-risk patients. No scientific basis or consensus could be reached on this point. The delivery of these masks to certain groups of patients would have required a medical prescription and therefore an additional administrative burden for doctors, which would have been inappropriate in the context we know. Refunds via INAMI would be relatively complex except to reserve the sale to pharmacies or to create a specific refund circuit for products sold in commerce. In addition, the reservation of pharmaceutical masks would raise market distortion concerns. With regard to the obligation to wear the mask for children, I do not want to go ahead of the discussions that will certainly take place during the next Codeco. I believe that, in our country, the problems of wearing the mask have been exaggerated in terms of benefits. We really wasted time with resistance without any scientific basis. In my view, this was one of the reasons why the fourth wave was particularly difficult in schools. Why has there been so much contamination in young people and children, which has had an effect on the extent of this wave in adults and the elderly? We really wasted time with a groundless resistance. It is clear that wearing the mask has a beneficial effect in terms of contagiosity. I don't know any studies that say otherwise and I don't know any of them that show significant or significant disadvantages to children. That it is not comfortable, that it is not easy, that it should be explained, that it is something that cannot be taken lightly, all this is true. Therefore, the obligation to wear the mask for children should not be extended for longer than necessary. But I was little impressed by a series of reviews. I know it is neither comfortable nor easy, but in other European countries there has been no problem! In Italy, France, Spain, they are not tyranny! These are not countries that are used to torturing children. So I found the debate in our house a little weird, actually.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u57	Minister, thank you. I've had an answer to almost all of my questions. Of course, I would have wanted to know if the obligation to wear the mask within the nursing homes had been properly followed. If you don't have the answer today, don't hesitate to come back to us about it. I am not going to say that I am happy to hear about wearing the mask with the children because if we could do without it, we would of course do so. But it is important to realize that one is understood when taking a measure that is very difficult, even if one receives attacks. I remember that a little over a year ago, Courcelles was the only commune to apply it. We felt that there was enough scientific literature in this sense, because it could be effective. I'm still going to tell you that I'm relieved that you shared this experience and that you can put it on the table that it's not comfortable and that it's a choice we'd never want to make, but it's extra protection. I still wish you courage for the rest of the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u58	Minister, thank you. My question was tabled a few weeks ago and the Codeco of 4 January had already partially answered my questions. Thank you for resuming the situation, especially on these famous GEMS recommendations which were followed by the Codeco of 4 January. The wearing of the FFP2 mask has been recommended, and not made mandatory, for vulnerable persons and for persons leaving quarantine, the strict obligation to sensu being reserved for health-care personnel. I also hear, and I understand easily, the difficulties that you may fear, particularly at the level of the Codeco, in relation to the generalization of the obligation which could lead to unintended effects. You took the example of wearing the same FFP2 mask several days in a row. I do believe that this non-generalisation is a decision of common sense. We all hope that this covid will leave us alone in the coming months. If the FFP2 were to prevail in other sectors, and you know that we remain very attentive to its financial accessibility, this debate should be held again. For the time being, let us be optimistic that the decline of the covid will help us to recover more freedoms in the weeks and months to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answers. As far as FFP2 masks are concerned, you intend to use them in a reasonable and reasonable manner. However, I do not understand why this mask was only recommended. You give us reasons for cost and practicality. However, I think that from the moment you recognize that it offers much higher protection, it is up to the government to give itself the means to ensure it, especially in places where it is difficult – if not impossible – to observe physical distances. I am, of course, thinking about public transport. You're talking about the need to change it more regularly. In this regard, we should look at what is being done in our neighbours. For example, the department of Nord, in France, has decided to distribute more than one million seven hundred thousand FFP2 masks to its administrators, including schools, colleges, medical offices, associations and municipal administrations. This shows that, in the presence of political will, we can empower ourselves to protect populations that are considered to be more vulnerable. With regard to the mask for children, I am struck by your argument that some people's resistance to wearing the mask – and therefore the resulting lost time – would be responsible for the magnitude of the fourth and fifth waves in schools.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u60	I said it was probably a factor that had inevitably played.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u61	Minister, the mere fact of insinuating him is particularly shocking. Indeed, we know that this measure had been strongly criticized by the child psychiatrists – therefore not only by critics of health measures – professionals who are concerned about the physical and mental health of children and who ensure that the balance between the advantages and disadvantages of a particular provision is maintained. There was no scientific consensus on its usefulness from a global point of view. The omicron variant hit everywhere and not just in schools. I find it grappling that the effort of the health crisis on children is being weighed to this extent. This must be done primarily by parents, adults and politicians. I would therefore like to appeal to you for Friday's Codeco to study the possibility of lifting the mask for children, especially since the generalisation of ventilation devices that has been decided in the meantime. If this is not really possible, I would ask you to ensure that the medical contraindications that are the subject of medical certificates are recognized, since apparently these certificates are not recognized in the various schools.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u62	I forgot to mention it in my answer. The anecdotes you are talking about are relevant, but in the Codeco decision, there was a general rule that obviously had to be applied judiciously. It's obvious when you're working with kids! I remember saying at Codeco that there was a principle, but that its application had to be pragmatic. The anecdotes you tell are sad. The general rule was implemented too late. That's my opinion and I think it's well-founded.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u63	Mr Minister, the Japanese Ministry of Health has identified inflammation of the heart muscle and of the outer layer of the heart in younger men as one of the potentially serious side effects of the Moderna vaccine and the Pfizer vaccine. This is not surprising because both myocardiitis and pericarditis are side effects that are quoted regularly in the literature and studies as adverse reactions after vaccination. A press article by NHK World dated 14 November states that, out of every million men who had received the Moderna vaccine, such side effects were reported in 81 men aged 10-19 years and 48 men aged in their 20s. The rates for the Pfizer vaccine were 15 and 13, respectively. The Japanese Ministry of Health therefore appointed a panel of experts and proposes a warning for the risk of serious adverse reactions on the package leaflets of the vaccines. It will also require hospitals to report incidents with people who developed the symptoms in detail within 28 days of vaccination, as required by law. Mr Minister, has the Belgian Ministry of Health, in particular the FPS Health, Sciensano and/or the Supreme Health Council, also made such findings as a result of the vaccination campaigns in which both Moderna vaccines and Pfizer vaccines have been administered? Can you give us, as in Japan, details of the incidence of these side effects? You can do that in writing. Will you also take the necessary measures, as has rightly been done in Japan, to give a warning to those who are invited to vaccination, vaccination centres and general practitioners, and will you warn about the side effects in the communication of the Public Health Office in general and on the Coronavirus.be website? Will you do anything to prevent persons who are statistically at a higher risk for the above mentioned side effects from being given a free choice between Pfizer and Moderna? In view of the above, do you provide for the possibility to offer a booster with an alternative vaccine such as AstraZeneca, Novavax or other vaccines on the market at the request of the person being invited and possibly after medical advice?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u64	Madam President, I have already put this question to the Minister in the context of an actua debate and have received an answer to it, so I will leave it that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u65	We have indeed already talked about this, Mrs Depoorter, so I will repeat a little bit. Myocarditis and pericarditis have been known for a long time, rare side effects of the vaccines. They are also included in the package leaflets for both Pfizer and Moderna vaccines. For example, the Comirnaty package leaflet says: "There is an increased risk of myocardiitis, inflammation of the heart muscle, and pericarditis, inflammation of the pericardium, after vaccination with Comirnaty (see section 4). These conditions may occur within a few days of vaccination and occurred mainly within 14 days. They were observed more frequently after the second vaccination and more frequently in boys and young men. After vaccination, you should be alert to signs of myocardiitis and pericarditis, such as shortness of breath, palpitations and chest pain, and seek medical attention immediately if these occur." As early as July 2021, the two companies sent a joint letter to the healthcare professionals concerned to warn them of a risk of myocardiitis and pericarditis. This is a standard method for communicating such risks. The FAGG also discusses the risk in the monthly summary of the adverse reactions of the vaccines on its website. I can provide you with two detailed tables on the number of side effects identified, but I would like to make it clear that these are suspected side effects, i.e. medical events observed after the use of the vaccine, but not necessarily related to or caused by the vaccine. In November 2021, as a precautionary measure, it was decided to only administer a basic vaccine of Moderna.................................................................................................................................................. When booster is administered for Moderna, a lower dose is given..... 50 micrograms.................................................................................................................................................. That lower dose is absolutely enough. Moderna is also dosed differently from the Pfizer vaccine: Pfizer works with 30 micrograms. That is also why we do not use age limits in the booster. The lower dose booster protection is as good as a full dose and there are fewer side effects. All the decisions we take are, of course, based on the recommendations of the European Medicines Agency and not on individual recommendations issued by neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u66	The side effects have already been addressed several times. We must, of course, distinguish between what is on the package leaflet as 'adverse effect' and what is on the package leaflet as'serious side effect'. In this respect, I find it remarkable that all side effects here are always dismissed as very rare, not serious, and you name it. It's all kind of minimized, but it'll only happen to your child. I would like to have access to your tables, and I think it would be interesting to have a clear overview of them. You stress that these are suspected side effects. Of course, there is still a need to examine whether there is a link with the vaccines administered. However, I have a number of critical reservations about this and I wonder how one can ultimately decide whether or not certain side effects can be associated with the vaccine. I fear that the "suspected" side effects will retain the predicate "probably."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u67	This question also dates back to early December. An article in Het Laatste Nieuws of 7 December shows that the police go very far with the recovery of hospital staff. I quote, so that the verdict is not put in my shoes: "colleagues called 15 times at night, just like the Gestapo." In French-speaking Belgium there was a strike in the healthcare sector on Monday 7 December, and some managements therefore demanded their staff as a precaution. Apparently, that's why the police were called in. Mr Minister, you can simply answer my questions with yes or no. Is sending civilian police officers to the home address of care personnel a good way to increase their motivation? Do you recognize that this method is intimidating to those involved? Will you advise the management of healthcare institutions in the future not to send police officers but to use alternatives? Are you aware that hospitals will have to close if you hold on to the suspension and dismissal, on 1 January, 1 April or already 1 June, of staff who do not want vaccination? Are you prepared to reconsider the decision of forced dismissal? I'm satisfied with a yes or no. There are a few other questions. How many staff were recruited on Monday 7 December in Belgium? How much in Brussels and Wallonia? How many hospitals on the Belgian territory had care staff to be claimed since March 2020? In how many hospitals in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia? How many staff in the healthcare sector are eligible for suspension on 1 January or 1 June? A manifesto claims that 10% of the total capacity is likely to be fired. What's your assessment? How will you guarantee the care staff the necessary rest and leave hours if the capacity will fall by 1 June? Some staff have not been on leave for two years.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u68	Strike right is of course very important, but not absolutely. If the public interest requires it, for example, continuity of health care, care workers can be claimed as an exceptional measure. There is a thorough assessment and consideration. If, after consultation, it appears that there is a risk of continuity of care, the recovery must provide the necessary guarantees to avoid this. Formal procedures of recovery order and surety of receipt may then be necessary and should be used in a timely and conclusive manner. Health workers know these procedures and they also realise that it is important to ensure continuity. It's hard to think of it as totally surprising. If there are situations in which this does seem intimidating, it is best reported and discussed. I have no answer to the other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u69	It can't be that hard to answer yes or no to five questions. I also know that the right to strike is important, but not absolutely. I do have questions when people with so much pooha almost have to be pulled out of their bed. That's what my questions are about. It's probably not totally surprising, but the way it will be surprising and very intimidating. Hopefully that was a single fact and will never happen again. At the beginning of the pandemic we were all ready to applaud. In the meantime, we're two years later, and our care staff is almost considered criminals. They get pulled out of bed, they get fired if they don't get vaccinated and you name it. I certainly cannot support such a policy, and I will continue to press charges against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u70	Minister, the disadvantage of asking questions is that some are already outdated, so outdated that the FIRM has already issued a new opinion, following the hearings. So I can summarize my questions. Have you read the new advice? I hope so. Can you take that advice? The second opinion is somewhat different from the first opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u71	Mrs Sneppe, there are hearings in the Chamber on this matter. So I won't answer now. You are debating the opinion in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u72	Mr Minister, we have indeed debated the opinion. It's already over. So why should we MEPs not hear your views on this? I hope that you will follow the debate fully, that you will give it the necessary consequences and also that, if your Highness likes it, you will, if necessary, reconsider your own opinion in the light of what will emerge from the hearings.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u73	Mrs. Sneppe, I know it's a lot to ask, but try to be consistent. I have asked Parliament, together with the government and the Conciliation Committee, to organise the debate in Parliament. It would be rather strange for me to give my opinion here suddenly on one of the opinions. You yourself state that your question comes at an unfortunate time. So that would be weird. Of course I follow the debate. I am also really looking forward to Parliament's position after the hearings.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u74	Mr Minister, I shall leave the question in the drawer and, if necessary, ask it again at a later date. My question dates back to early December 2021. You can see she's coming at an inconvenient time. That's right. You have indeed given us the debate. I hope that you will also appreciate the advice and the advice that will emerge from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u75	Minister, all the reports, opinions and so on of all the advisory councils that this country is rich should be released as soon as possible. Usually they are first leaked into the press and then they appear somewhere on the internet, but usually one has to click through very often before finding the information. I have already indicted this with regard to the reports of, among other things, the RAG and the RMG: they are usually well tucked away. Will you be in favour of releasing these opinions as quickly and as transparently as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u76	Yes, I am in favour of releasing it quickly and transparently.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u77	Minister, if you are tired, you must say so and we will stop now. Okay, you're in favour, but will you do something? Will you ensure that the information is actually available more quickly, that it is more transparent, that we can handle it more easily, not via and around the corner? It would only be wrong if you were not in favour of it being transparent, but rather a little serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u78	Minister, my question was tabled a long time ago, but a number of issues are still relevant. What are your findings regarding the study of IDEWE and what exactly has been applied? I've read the study thoroughly. When it comes to the transmission within shops, I note that the employees have been looked at, but have you also asked for research into the difference between the large retailers and smaller shops, where by definition fewer customers come on the floor? Have you asked for an investigation into the transmission to the visitors of those shops, and have you also considered them in the light of certain measures taken? If we look more closely at a number of sectors of beauty care, we can see that the hairdressers have much less transmission than the beauty specialists. And yet the barbershops have remained closed for a long time. Do you take these considerations into account if there are any future variants? What conclusions do you draw in relation to the arguments used to close certain cases and others? We still have a recommendation for telework at the moment. But telework is also less convincing from the research than originally assumed. To what extent does the argument for recommended telework still stand today? Finally, do you believe that the measures that have been taken, and are still in force, can be regarded as evidence-based? What are the lessons you have learned and how will you deal with this in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u79	Thank you for the good questions. Thanks to the linking of data from different databases, the experts were able to gain a lot of insight into the many aspects of the pandemic, including the impact on specific economic sectors. As you have pointed out, it is important to stress that the study includes data on infections in people employed there. That doesn't necessarily mean they're infected on the work floor. One simply sees a correlation between where someone works and what the probability is that it is infected. That's very relevant, I think. I support that kind of investigation. I will also be sent the results immediately, just like you. We're trying to think about that together. You have asked some punctual policy questions, which have already been answered de facto, by how the policy has gone. The booster vaccination campaign is now running for the whole population from 18 years and older. As far as one of your next questions is concerned, we must be careful to look at transmission too narrowly. For example, when people go shopping, they also move before and after visiting the store. They may still be engaging in subsequent activities. They may take the bus or the tram. The essence is that as more contacts take place, there is also more chance of contamination, partly on the basis of the place, inside or outside, the quality of the air, the duration of the contact and so on. We must therefore be careful what we learn from this type of research and what the whole of the argument is why it is decided to introduce restrictions in a particular sector. It can also be about mobility to the activity in that particular sector and back, for example. The data to which you refer date from December 2021. During that period the hairdressers were not closed. That also had to do with this kind of data. If these data had shown that there was a particular major problem, then perhaps we would have had a debate on closing the hairdressers. But we haven't had that. That wasn't on the table. Similar analyses by the RSZ from January 2021 showed that the incidence was higher in hairdressers. So that was part of the discussion on the closure of hairdressers. It was the same for the beauty salons back then. The closure of the non-necessary shops in previous waves was not so much to prevent transmission with the staff in the shop as to limit the number of movements and prevent transmission between changing customers in and around shops, for example in densely populated shopping streets. So there are always different arguments, as I said earlier. I think teleworking is also effective for these various reasons. It's about contagion at work, but it's also about moving to work. We establish empirically a very large correlation between mobility and the number of infections. I don't think there are any arguments that telework is not necessary. There are, however, arguments that teleworking is not possible in certain sectors, but that infections are fairly well controlled in comparison. I hope that we will be able to conclude that in non-teleworking sectors other precautions will be properly followed. Professor Godderis has pointed out the importance of this research. We receive advice from the GEMS, which examines this type of data. That opinion already takes into account many considerations. When taking a political decision, we are certainly looking at considerations not only of an epidemiological nature, but also of an economic and social nature. We also try to motivate our decisions well. In sectors where there are contacts with young people, for example, and where there are more infections at certain times, it can be decided that there is a reason for this. That does not mean that such a sector will be closed down. That depends on other considerations. Overall, this is a very relevant study.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u80	Minister, we are absolutely in agreement on the latter. These investigations could have happened earlier in the crisis and saved us a number of economic cemeteries. I am thinking of the non-essential shops that had to work by appointment. This has caused a lot of economic problems, because it was not profitable, while there was no evidence that there was more transmission at that time. You are right that everything needs to be balanced. We need to further analyse these studies in order to prepare ourselves for future challenges. It is a collective fact that we were not prepared for such a pandemic. That must not happen again. So we need to continue these studies and see how we can reconcile economics, health and mental well-being.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u81	Mr Minister, I have received the answer to an earlier question from you that at the end of February the allowance for the protective equipment for nurses and the other care providers would be paid. Is that still on schedule?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u82	Ms Depoorter, the payment for intervention for the period from December 2020 to June 2021 is foreseen for 28 February at the latest in accordance with the conditions laid down in the Decision published at the end of 2021. I would just like to stress that this is not only for nurses in the outpatient setting, but also for doctors, dentists, pharmacists, logopedists, physiotherapists, bandagists, in short all care providers in the outpatient care sector. The fee compensates both for the costs of purchasing protective equipment and for the extra working time that it takes for a health care provider, such as thoroughly disinfecting the practical space, ventilating between two consultations in etc. After all, caregivers should not charge supplements to their patients for this. Between 4 May 2021 and the end of June 2021, EUR 740 million will be made available for the compensation of the protective equipment, paid in three discs. In view of the fourth wave, I urged the government to extend the measure for another six months, until the first quarter of 2022. This will be done in accordance with the procedures approved by the Insurance Committee. An additional budget has also been provided for there.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u83	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u84	Mrs Depoorter, you have indicated that you have your questions. 55023320C, 55023454C, 55023582C and 55024596C are considered as answered, given the debate this morning in committee. Debates of the European Parliament 55023882C by Mr Creyelman was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u85	Mr Minister, I have already asked this question in an actua debate. It concerns self-tests with a monolingual packaging. Medical devices placed on the market in this country must have a trilingual package and a trilingual package leaflet. You told me then that you would pass it on to the FAGG. I would have liked to have heard from you what action has been taken on this particular self-test. Have any further problems been reported later with self-tests being sold in the pharmacy or in the supermarket? What sanctions have been imposed? Is the quality of the self-test sufficiently controlled? Professor Van Gucht also expressed doubts about certain self-tests in a committee. Do you have an impact on the FAGG's findings?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u86	Mrs Depoorter, reports have been received regarding the lack of the package leaflet in the three country samples of SARS-CoV-2 self-tests. The shops and pharmacies concerned were contacted. They were informed about the use of the country languages. Information was collected on the distributors concerned. They were visited by the FAGG Inspection Service. The distributors received a so-called 'critical deficiency' for the distribution of non-compliant in vitro diagnostic medical devices. As a corrective action, distributors had to contact each customer and inform him or her that the devices were not compliant because the package leaflet was missing in the three country languages. They had to follow up the package leaflet in the missing country samples and inform the customer that these leaflets should accompany each tool. For future deliveries, they must ensure that they always distribute the tools with a package leaflet in all national languages. As far as your second question is concerned, the shops and pharmacies supplied by the distributors concerned may have devices containing package leaflets in the three country languages, either by receiving compliant tools since the inspection, or by the corrective action described in the answer to the first question. In reply to your third question, I can tell you that the products were not withdrawn from the market. However, the corrective action was carried out, namely informing customers and sending the missing package leaflets. It was an administrative non-conformity, which was remedied by the corrective action described above. No sanctions were imposed at the points of sale, which were informed about the non-conformity of the devices and about the corrective actions to be taken. The distributors received a critical non-conformity during the inspection. In the case of repeated infringements, sanctions will be established. To your fifth question I can answer that several reports have always been and are assessed by the FAGG. On-the-spot visits and inspections shall be carried out to examine the notifications. The FAGG has decided to provide the package leaflets in the three country languages on the website of the FAGG as an annex to the list of SARS-CoV-2 antigen self-tests that hold a CE certificate. In reply to your sixth question, I would point out that no products were withdrawn from the market. The FAGG does not have the information form. This concerns the total number of single package leaflet tests offered for sale or sold. In particular, five distributors were inspected in December 2021 on the basis of complaints concerning the package leaflets of SARS-CoV-2 self-tests. Finally, the self-tests found are indeed correctly CE-marked as self-tests. They are on the list of recommended SARS-CoV-2 antigen self-tests possessing a CE certificate. The list is available on the website of the FAGG. However, self-testing without a package leaflet in the country languages does not comply with the national language requirements, which is an administrative non-conformity. In the examination of the reports, no self-tests were found that were not CE marked as self-tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u87	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that the FAGG overlooks this, puts package leaflets on its website and writes a note about non-conformity. That cannot be the intention, however. A patient who buys a medical device should be able to be helped in one of the three national languages. The law is the law. It is easy as it goes, especially that here the meshes of the net are slipped through. We have not yet discussed the sensitivity of the tests. That's the most important thing. I note that there is no check on that. However, that does matter. People who buy a test should be able to have the guarantee that the test is of good quality. So I shall certainly come back to the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u88	That question too is a bit dated. In the meantime, the decision to include the booster shot at the CST from 1 March has been taken. I would have liked to know what diplomatic steps have been taken in the meantime for young people who want to go on holiday to Italy and Austria. Both countries are asking for a booster shot. You said in plenary that discussions would start. Have they taken place yet? And what's the outcome?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u89	That was not really the question, but I do want to answer it, because it is important enough. We have addressed our diplomatic posts in Vienna and Rome from the federal government. We have every respect for the fact that these countries' policies require a booster to be able to participate in a number of activities. Young people are allowed to enter the country, but they do not have access to cafés, restaurants and ski slopes. We have therefore pointed out that this is difficult to demand from minors, as long as there is no European licence. That is why we have also waited for the booster campaign to be launched. I do not want to anticipate the outcome of these demarches, but we are now considering possible practical solutions in those countries, which do not compromise their caution, but increase the flexibility for young people with the necessary precautions. I do not yet have a definitive result, but we have made a very clear diplomatic démarche.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u90	Diplomatic consultations are indeed necessary and I look forward to receiving the Member States' answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u91	Mrs Verhaert is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u92	Minister, you have already answered some of my questions during the topical and urgent debate. I'm gonna confine myself to my questions about the PCR tests. Since January 10, asymptomatic high-risk contacts should no longer be quarantined. The PCR test is therefore no longer reimbursed by the RIZIV if asymptomatic. Of course, that's a problem. What about staff in the residential care centers and rest homes who had high-risk contact and still want a PCR test to see if they're positive, even though they don't have any symptoms? Do they have to pay for the cost of an expensive PCR test? Do you have an overview of the number of PCR tests that have been carried out since 10 January and do not meet the conditions for reimbursement and thus have been charged to the tested person? For the time being, PCR tests are no longer refunded for asymptomatic subjects. Is that a final decision? You said that testing in the case of asymptomatic high-risk contacts amounts to prevention and that this should actually be paid for by the regions. That was also one of the reasons why the self-tests are not reimbursed by the federal government. What are the prospects in this respect? Are you sticking to that point of view, or is there going to be evolution there? Is there a discussion about that? I have heard in the media that there might be a barometer for testing policy. Can you give us any information on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u93	The test capacity has not changed. It's about the test guidelines. This is decided by the RMG, after the opinion of the RAG. The latest test guidelines do not include exceptions for PCR tests, including for personnel employed in residential care centres. They are advised to use a self-test at high risk contact. Furthermore, a PCR test after a positive self-test will be reimbursed. Frankly, I have not seen the number of tests carried out because of a high risk contact that were charged to the persons tested. When the test strategy was changed on 10 January, the software was immediately adapted to prescribe the tests by the general practitioners, company doctors and test centres, so that they can no longer apply for tests after a high risk contact. The protocols in the contact centre were also modified. For this reason, laboratories are in fact receiving very few tests that have been taken because of high risk contact. However, for technical reasons, this code remains active in certain places for the time being, as in certain hospital software which has not yet been adapted. In very rare situations it is therefore possible that applications may still be submitted for a test after high risk contact, e.g. for symptomatic high risk contacts where the prescriber is still technically able to use the TP0111 code. The laboratories have been informed that these analyses are still being reimbursed by the sickness funds for the time being. Sciensano closely follows the use of that indication code. In the case of exceptional situations where a person is charged a test after a high risk contact, by wrong instructions with the prescriber or via the contact centre, a procedure will be set up whereby the sickness fund will examine the situation and, if necessary, carry out a refund. We have discussed the policy on self-tests so many times. So I will not repeat what I said earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u94	Minister, it is a pity that you do not answer a number of questions. In my view, it is a problem that people who have had high-risk contact and are asked, for example, to test in the context of their work, should pay for the self-tests themselves. Some employers fit, others don't. In addition, there are still a lot of people who had a PCR test done after high risk contact. The doctors also didn't know that it was suddenly cancelled. I therefore believe that the procedure that will be set up is really necessary in order to follow the issue proactively. I am sorry that you do not have more information on the number of persons involved. Furthermore, I have not heard you say whether you stand by your position on asymptomatic high-risk contacts. Isn't that going to change because it's about prevention? Or is that going to change in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u95	Maybe I should have said that just to be clear. We have always expressly said that the change in the testing strategy is a temporary decision. We therefore assume that it will be revised someday. I just can't tell you when or how. We have received an evaluation from the ECDC of our overall testing strategy. We asked for this evaluation to take an external look and we will discuss it next Wednesday. It is therefore possible that we will look at the whole test strategy again with a fresh look, and we will not necessarily return to what was before the shutdown. I should perhaps have added to my answer that the test strategy in its present form has not been established forever and ever.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u96	Thank you for that additional information. I continue to argue that you should also review the reimbursement of the self-tests. Self-testing is of course much cheaper than PCR tests. Is the ECDC evaluation of our testing strategy public?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u97	No, not yet, but we will make it public as soon as we have discussed it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u98	Thanks. We will certainly follow up on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u99	Mr Minister, children usually do not get more serious complaints in case of a corona infection than in case of a random cold. We already knew that, but now it also appears from research by UMC Utrecht. More than 300 families whose families had a cold or had corona were closely monitored during this study to study the exact course of disease following a virus infection. A total of 1,209 people, including 582 children, kept diaries between September 2020 and June 2021 to record their symptoms in respiratory infection. In addition, PCR tests were used to check which virus they had exactly under their control. The study confirmed what was already suspected, in particular that the actual number of children with antibodies should be higher than the 25% to 30% measured in June 2021. The diaries also showed that the symptoms in children are not or hardly different from those of a common cold. Does Sciensano conduct this kind of investigation? If not, are there plans for that? What's the timeline for that? If so, have any results been obtained? What are these results and where do we find them? Why aren't they being communicated? If not, when can we expect the results? Are they published on Sciensano's website? In the light of the results of this study, would you change your view on the vaccination of children? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u100	Mrs. Sneppe, Sciensano does not conduct such an investigation. It is not planned either, because there is international research and our data from the seroprevalence studies clearly indicate that many more children are infected with the virus than children have had symptoms. The same applies to other population groups. We do not think it is very relevant to carry out further research on this, because we already know that. For the underlying advice on the vaccination of children, please refer to the High Health Council and the literature to which that council refers. In part, we can say something about the impact of vaccination on children we observe. The vaccination campaign has just started for the 5 to 11 age group. So there are no data available to make a statement based on what we actually observe. For the group of 12- to 17-year-olds we see a clear impact on severe infection. The relative reduction in the risk of hospitalisation among fully vaccinated patients compared to unvaccinated patients is 99% and for intake to intensive care 100 %, with which I give figures for the 14 day period from 20 December to 2 January. This is also graphically illustrated in the weekly report by Sciensano. On the basis of these data for this age group, there is no doubt about the usefulness of vaccination. By the way, according to information we obtain anecdotally about children who are hospitalized, those children are quite ill. Children also end up in the intensive care department. The image if it remains with common cold symptoms, must leave the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u101	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Such a study does show that Professor Lieven Annemans is right when he weighs the benefits and costs of child vaccination against each other. The investigation confirms what we already knew, especially that children rarely get sick. Of course, anecdotal communication shows that some children do get sick and end up in hospital, even on intensive care. However, the question remains open as to whether all children should be vaccinated, which is why we are also exposing all children to the possible side effects of the vaccines. In the meantime, you know my principle. Especially for children and young people, I believe that the precautionary principle should be applied. You seem to have a different opinion on that. I don't think we're gonna agree on that. I can only keep hammering on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u102	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Creyelman's 55023484C has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u103	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u104	Mrs Depoorter, I have long tables here in answer to your written question. What am I supposed to do with that? I can read you a piece. I suggest I just send you the whole thing over.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u105	You can get it to me right away, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u106	Firstly, what decision was taken on the change in the amount of the amount of the contribution to the RIZIV? The amount of the grant has been adjusted to take account of an annual revaluation of the foreseen budget allocated to the COVID-19 measures for the first half of 2021, following the extension of a series of measures until 31 December 2021. Two new measures are also planned concerning additional funding for the National Reference Centre and funding for the additional functionalities of the GP software under the vaccination strategy. Secondly, what exactly are the amounts involved? The amount of the provision for 2021 shall be increased by EUR 154,445,000. This amount is set at EUR 994.217.000. That is the result of the increase. That comes from the interdepartmental commission. In fixing that amount, account was taken of the estimated surplus of the budget for 2020 at the beginning of the year, which was EUR 290,230,000. The budget for COVID-19 financed by this amount is therefore EUR 1,284,447,000. In December, the amounts of the measures were readjusted and the amount of the aid will have to be readjusted. I've got the detailed amounts. I suggest I deliver them to you because otherwise I will be here for a very long time. So you'll get this from me, along with the whole answer. Has the RIZIV returned the unused amount? In accordance with the provisions of the Royal Decree granting a grant to the RIZIV in the context of the fight against COVID-19, the expenditure must be settled and the unused amount repaid to the Treasury. Settlements will take place at the closure of the accounts. The final amount not yet known for 2020 is not yet available, but is currently estimated at EUR 345,535,000. The amount to be repaid to the Treasury for the year 2020 is therefore estimated at EUR 55.305,000, taking into account that EUR 290.230,000 has already been deducted in order to set the allocation for 2021. For the year 2021, the amount not used is not yet known, as in 2022 expenditure may still be allocated to the year 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u107	Thank you, Minister, for your brief explanation of a comprehensive reply. I'll go over it and I'll come back to it if you need me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u108	Minister, Moderna wants to deepen relations with Switzerland, similar to Canada and Australia. Modernabaas Stéphane Bancel would like to enter into long-term cooperation with Switzerland, with the obligation to take a certain amount of vaccines. In addition to the vaccination subscription, Bancel wants to invest in scientists in Switzerland, develop vaccines in laboratories of hospitals or universities and carry out more clinical trials in that country. In the event of a new pandemic, we can develop a new vaccine very quickly," says the Modernabaas. Those who work with the company are preferred when it comes to deliveries. Minister, what is your view on such a vaccination subscription? Are there any discussions on this with Belgium? Is that what you're planning on doing? Is such a subscription possible with other vaccine producers? Are there any discussions on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u109	With regard to contracts with the covid vaccine producers, I would like to maintain European cooperation, as has been the case so far. This creates equal access to the best possible vaccines throughout the European Union. This is a form of solidarity which, I believe, is much more efficient than the commercial-driven deal with one particular country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u110	There you go, Minister, something we agree on. I'm glad your vision of that is the same as mine. After all, such an agreement seems to me to have quite a lot of power in a pharmaceutical company.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u111	Minister, Flanders has voted a decree that regulates the availability of PCR tests within the prevention decree to the pharmacist. We have often talked about the fact that the pharmacists have played a very nice role in carrying out the rapid antigen tests, but that there have been restrictions. The positive rapid antigen tests did not result in a recovery certificate. When we were in the Great Omikron wave, in which we now see a turn of events, it seemed appropriate to involve the pharmacists in the collection of PCR tests as well. If necessary, the lab can pick up the tests perfectly from the pharmacist, just as is done with the general practitioner. Do you see any good in that? Have you made provision for this or will you make provision for it in view of the coming winter period?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u112	Mrs Depoorter, the decree of the Flemish Community to which you refer does indeed provide for a covid test to be carried out in a pharmacy, but the decision on who is allowed to take the test is a federal one. That question is therefore not regulated by this decree, which would be contrary to the allocation of powers. You know that the pharmacists are authorized by royal decree to carry out rapid antigen tests. More generally, I would like to say that the test strategy will be adopted in conjunction with the Community authorities at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. To date, no demand has been put on the table at the Inter-Ministerial Conference from any party to authorise pharmacists to take PCR tests. So I do not want to anticipate that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u113	Mr Minister, there is something to be said about this test strategy. The experts also indicate that it didn't work out optimally, especially in the last wave. Let us hope that we now have a rest period until the next winter, but if we stick to the travel restrictions in Europe, with PCR or restoration certificates, then it seems obvious to me that the action, which is identical to the antigen test collection, should also be carried out via the pharmacy, in order to ensure the low threshold and accessibility of the test policy. The private labs indicate they still have capacity, so it's worth considering.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u114	Mr Minister, this question is in line with my question on the health barometer. In the United Kingdom, the NHS is in the process of scaling up capacity and resilience in healthcare. You have just given a number of pillars, such as the task force you set up. However, I liked to have a timeline, also for the coming winter. To what extent will you take into account dropout rates? To what extent will you make a major exercise on the needs of the geographical entities in our country, to ensure that this resilience is effectively scaled up for the future? When we look at the exercise that is taking place in the United Kingdom, it seems that the same exercise can also take place in our country, especially in view of the differences between the states.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u115	Mrs Depoorter, this question actually fits in with the debate on the health barometer. So I can give a relatively technical repetition of what I said about the way the HTSC works, the scales it uses and so on. However, I think you would like to emphasise something else here. You are right, we need to make a proper assessment of how we are now scaling up and scaling down with the HTSC. Indeed, there should also be an evaluation of more generally the way in which the HTSC has operated and of what additional instruments or investments are needed. After all, we should not simply explain how the HTSC works, that is a meeting. Of course, it's about more than that. We do indeed need to draw a number of global conclusions. We will not have drawn them very quickly, because it requires a thorough reflection. You are right to say that we may need to look at this in the light of the coming autumn and winter seasons. I will therefore take your question, as well as your reference to the United Kingdom, as an inspiration to make thorough work of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u116	To be continued, I suppose.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u117	Mr President, my question was actually more along the lines of Mrs Depooster's question on the scaling up and down of hospital capacity than Mrs Rohonyi's. Mr Minister, I would like to go back to the first analysis of the Centre of Knowledge, carried out after the first wave, on the functioning of the HTSC Committee. You also mentioned earlier that the data collection within the hospitals is still a working point. Can you indicate if there is any progress in that data collection? In what way do the hospitals pass on their data at this time? What check is there on the completeness of the registration, which was really problematic at the beginning? Is it building on existing registration systems, which are also used for benchmarking by, among others, the Flemish Hospital Network or the MICA platform, to which a large number of hospitals are already affiliated? Is there no possibility of extracting the data already stored on those platforms, so that there is no duplication? What steps have been taken and what is the timeline to achieve easier registration, which is preferably real-time and with minimal effort for hospitals?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u118	Mrs Rohonyi, Sciensano collects hospital data on covid-19 using two different surveys. The first, the Search Capacity Survey, was made mandatory by royal decree and must be completed daily by all hospitals. This survey collects data collected at the hospital level, including the number of patients admitted, the number of new hospitalizations and the number of discharges. The second survey, the Clinical Hospital Survey, is not mandatory and collects detailed data at the patient level. The level of reporting for this survey is not 100%. In November 2021, it was simplified to reduce the reporting workload. This resulted in a 50% increase in reporting in the fourth wave. With regard to your second question, since 6 October, the Search Capacity Survey - mandatory - also collects information on the vaccination status of patients admitted to hospital and intensive care. Based on this information, the average number of admissions and the incidence of admissions by vaccination status are included in our weekly report, both at the hospital level and at the intensive care level. For comparing the efficacy of each type of vaccine for each variant, we are dependent on data from patients who are imported by the Clinical Hospital Survey. To understand the specificities of different vaccines, we have this survey whose reporting level is not 100%. Currently, we do not have sufficient data to make a comparison between vaccines for each variant. With regard to your third question, a legal obligation of the Clinical Hospital Survey is being prepared, in collaboration with the Public Health FPS, to monitor closely the most recent situation and the evolution of the epidemic of covid-19 and thus provide scientific evidence to support the policy. Mrs Gijbels, I have already explained the difference between the Surge Capacity Survey and the non-compulsory Clinical Hospital Survey and you are already familiar with it. With the Clinical Hospital Survey we get a certain picture, but that is not really optimal, because not enough exhaustive. You ask questions about benchmarking. Both MICA and VZN collect data, but each time from a limited number of Flemish hospitals. For MICA these are 15 Flemish hospitals, for VZN they are 32 Flemish hospitals. There are limitations, because MICA focuses only on the intensive care departments and also only on Flemish hospitals. So we do not really have the necessary vision to manage the crisis properly. These systems have been set up for other purposes. Provided that some modifications are made, they can be used in theory to extract data. However, these adjustments are not a quick win. The problem is that it means an extra heavy burden if we ask the hospitals now. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is technically possible, but we do not yet have the right data to manage this crisis. Hospitals have different systems and are organized differently. The information is scattered. Faced with that problem, my administration is trying to make progress. What seems to be a quick win, as you can see, is not always the best solution to the problems that arise. You ask what steps I am taking in this respect. Well, in November 2021, the Clinical Hospital Survey was simplified, as I said earlier, to reduce the reporting burden. This has led to a significant increase in reporting, as I said to Mrs Rohonyi, in particular an increase of 50% during the fourth wave. We're working on a legal obligation. The hospitals currently have the choice to forward the data either via an online form or via a batch upload. It is now being examined whether the CHS can be identified with similar data collection services, so that the burden for hospitals can be alleviated. I find it difficult to estimate the timeline, because we also need to provide an adequate legal framework. As you know, this is often a difficult process.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u119	Minister, thank you for your answer. I mean there are two types of data that are collected to get an accurate view of the effectiveness of the different vaccines. On the one hand, there is the data collected from hospitals; it is a compulsory collection that allows to understand the vaccination status of hospitalized persons. On the other hand, we have the data collected from patients, a collection which is not currently mandatory and which allows us to understand the data on the different vaccines and their effects in relation to the different variants. I hear your willingness within the government to prepare a legal obligation on this second type of collection, which would allow us to have as complete and precise a view as possible of the effectiveness of the various vaccines. I think it's quite positive. When it is, it must be said because I am convinced that much more transparency is needed on the effectiveness of vaccines in order to bring about greater public acceptance of vaccination. Indeed, the majority of people who have not yet been vaccinated in our country are not antivax but people who hesitate and regret the lack of transparency on the effectiveness of vaccines. Now I wonder how you will be able to make this obligation effective. Will this be done through sanctions? In any case, we will be extremely attentive.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u120	Mr Minister, first of all I would like to correct that MICA is indeed running all over Belgium. A number of Walloon hospitals are also connected to this. It doesn't cover the whole hospital landscape, that's true. However, Charleroi and Liège are indeed connected, as are Brussels hospitals. Secondly, as you pointed out, measuring is knowing and data collection does indeed seem particularly important. However, this is broader than just the covid crisis. This will also be very important in the context of your plans to reform hospital funding. After all, there must be enough data at the basis. A significant sum is also available through the relay budgets. I thought they would be used in this context to improve the digitalisation of hospitals and the exchange of data. Hospitals have so far been little supported in the digitalisation story. What always bothers me is that there has been so little attention in the past to the interchangeability of data. As a result, the electronic patient files were often difficult or not interchangeable, so studies often had to be repeated, which, of course, may lead to overconsumption. I therefore hope that all these points will be taken into account. After all, it is 2022 and we really need to start working on those dates. They are there, but unfortunately they are not always analyzeable and interchangeable. There really is an important key to improving the efficiency of health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u121	Mr Minister, it is true that my question was tabled in early January when the press referred to the first cases of flurona, an infection mixing the covid-19 virus and the flu virus, in several countries, including Europe. Since then, the press has not revealed any more cases. But for his part, Mr. Van Ranst estimated that the effect of the two viruses did not appear to add up. However, this combination of covid and influenza requires the greatest caution, especially in view of the fact that February is the month in which influenza epidemics generally develop. So, minister, are we conducting studies on flurona? If so, are the results already known? At this stage, what is more known about the contagiosity or virulence of the flurona relative to the covid or flu taken separately? Do covid-19 vaccines effectively counter the combination of covid and influenza? Is there information on how many people would be vaccinated against influenza and not against covid-19 and vice versa? In the light of the emergence of flurona and its very likely evolution in February, is it necessary to strengthen the influenza vaccination campaign also for this month of February. If so, how?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u122	Mr President, Mrs Rohonyi, the onset of influenza has been monitored for years by Sentinel Networks with Belgian general practitioners and hospitals. General practitioners and participating hospitals provide Sciensano with clinical data from patients with specific influenza symptoms and collect a sample of these patients through a nasal swab that is tested by Sciensano to detect about fifteen respiratory viruses, including influenza. As of January 2020, each of these samples was also tested for SARS-CoV-2. Once infections with both viruses are observed, the clinical characteristics of these patients can be used to assess whether the disease is more serious. But so far, more than 4,500 patient samples have been tested in this way and no patient has been found to be infected with both viruses at the same time. Monitoring is ongoing and the results are published weekly on the Sciensano website. A recent literature review shows that co-infection with SARS-CoV-2 and influenza would not increase the risk of death or some indicators of severity. Similarly, there was no difference in symptoms between patients with covid-19 or influenza infection alone and patients co-infected with both viruses. However, there are large differences between studies. The literature review therefore recommends a systematic screening of co-infection with influenza in covid-19 patients and influenza vaccination. Influenza vaccines provide proven protection against serious influenza infections and covid-19 vaccines provide proven protection against serious SARS-CoV-2 infections. To our knowledge, there is no scientific evidence that protection against co-infection with SARS-CoV-2 and influenza would be less with covid-19 vaccination. Conversely, it appears that previous influenza vaccination may be associated with a more favourable evolution of covid-19. Sciensano only has access to the national vaccine registry for the covid-19 vaccine. So for the time being, there can be no link between people vaccinated against influenza and people vaccinated against covid-19 on an individual basis. At the population level, given the current high coverage of adult covid-19 vaccination of 88%, more people could be expected to be vaccinated against covid-19 than against influenza, not the other way around. You know that the government has strengthened the possibility of influenza vaccination this fall in three ways. First, a quarter more doses of vaccine were made available. Second, doctors, pharmacists are, as in the past year, entitled to establish a medical prescription, and thirdly, unlike last year, there was no target group sequencing to be vaccinated. As a result, everyone had the opportunity to be vaccinated as early as October 15, 2021. The influenza vaccination campaign is the responsibility of regional governments.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic685x.u123	Minister, thank you for staying to answer this last question. In addition, your answers are reassuring, since you tell me that monitoring of the samples is performed and that co-infection cases would not lead to an increase in deaths or worsening of symptoms. However, I understand that caution must be maintained, given that the results of the multiple studies carried out may differ. So I can only relay your message, which is to insist on the need for vaccination and against influenza and against covid.
