ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u1	Colleagues, I give the floor immediately to Mr Mathieu Michel, Secretary of State for Digitalisation, responsible for administrative simplification, privacy protection and the Régie des Bâtiments, to present his federal action plan for administrative simplification 2022-2024.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u2	Madam President, as an introduction, I would like to tell you how I envisage my work on simplification, digitalisation and privacy. I see three fundamental points in my task. Firstly, we are here to simplify, in particular through digitalization tools, but not only. When we talk about simplification, it's about simplifying processes, but it's also about working on tools that give the impression that things are simple when they're not always simple. You know the Belgian institutional model; it is not always of extraordinary simplicity. This first part of the work is important. It is a matter of simplifying not only the processes, but also the appearance of our processes. Secondly, it is about reassuring and creating a framework of trust and transparency in data management, algorithm readability and innovation. Generating this aspect of trust is essential. Thirdly, the aim is to stimulate: to be able to develop common ambitions for simplification and digitalisation. When we stimulate, we make ambitions converge. It is a fundamental axis of my work. The work on this plan, which was an important part of the government agreement, was done in collaboration with all federal departments. It's a pleasure to introduce him to you today. As clearly stated in the coalition agreement, it is more necessary than ever in the current crisis conditions to focus on administrative simplification and digitisation. A powerful government with an efficient service can make a difference more than ever. In this way, companies are given more oxygen and important steps are taken towards a more efficient and effective government. This will also lead to greater satisfaction among citizens and businesses and increased public confidence. Moreover, administrative simplification generates enormous savings for both public authorities and society as a whole. In addition to all initiatives launched in each policy area, an overarching plan should be drawn up, a horizontal plan containing the main priorities for administrative simplification. This plan has a transversal dimension and also focuses on policies and specific initiatives, which the government fully supports. The drafting of the new Action Plan will take into account the following elements: the vision; the guiding principles that form the basis for all actions, policies and initiatives and, as it were, will serve as a checklist for the administrative test; a strengthened methodological structure; a stronger governance of administrative simplification in the federal government; 38 priority projects, our flagships, and a federal inventory of administrative simplification. A clear and ambitious vision will benefit any bold policy. This is also the case for administrative simplification. This vision is that we make the administrative actions that an entrepreneur or citizen must carry out in order to comply with the rules imposed by the government easier and simpler. The ultimate aim is to minimise administrative burdens and, of course, to save time and money for citizens and businesses. The guiding principles of administrative simplification are the following. Firstly, there is the multidisciplinary approach. In the spectrum of administrative simplification, different tools are available to achieve a result. Such an approach means that there is cooperation across the borders of the various administrations. Depending on the need and complexity of the simplification sought, one or more of the following tools can be used: regulatory evaluation and adaptation, e-government, process management, communication and awareness raising. Furthermore, the principle of digital by default is central to the user. With the digital-by-default principle, we always strive to give priority, where possible, to the digital development of each new service. It is true that this always takes into account the need for digital inclusion. In addition, the development of new services or the adaptation of existing ones should always focus on the needs of the citizen or the company, while ignoring the requirements to produce the information. The aim is always to place emphasis on personal services to the user. We are also committed to a transversal vision with interoperability. We note that there is a strong interlinkage between the initiatives resulting from the different policy areas. Think of the sometimes thin line between administrative simplification, digitisation and privacy. The same can be said for the simplification initiatives taken by all federal organisations and by all Belgian public administrations. It is therefore important to work on a transversal vision of what we want to achieve in terms of simplification, both across policy areas and across organisational boundaries. The next point is strengthening the Only Once Act. With regard to the management of data and data by the government, we aim to maximise the re-use of that data. This will, among other things, improve interoperability between different administrations and services, which in turn results in greater simplification because the data are no longer distributed across multiple sources. The Law of 5 May 2014 provides for the anchoring of the principle of unique data collection in the operation of the services and bodies belonging to or carrying out tasks for the government as well as the simplification and equalisation of electronic and paper forms. The purpose of the Act is to anchor the re-use of data already available in authentic sources in the functioning of the federal government and to encourage the use of electronic forms, by fully aligning their value with that of paper forms. In recent years, a lot of work has been done on the implementation of that law. However, we must note that further progress can be made to further anchor the principle in the functioning of our public services. Then we're going to bet on authentic sources. An authentic source is the reference to obtain specific data. It provides specific guarantees regarding the accuracy, completeness and availability of this data. We note that a whole range of regulatory instruments exist today for the processing of personal data by public authorities and that these instruments have made progress in simplifying the functioning of the public sector. The digital transformation of the public sector increases the relevance and necessity of creating a basic framework. A policy vision on this will allow synergies to be created, procedures to be rationalised and data management by public authorities to be transparent. I come to the efficient internal functioning of the administrations. I may be kicking in an open door, but well-functioning public institutions contribute both explicitly and implicitly to the objectives of simplification. For example, gains obtained from simplification free up room for new government policies. In addition, there will also be an impact on the work processes of public services, which in turn increases efficiency and efficiency. As far as the method is concerned, the federal action plan for administrative simplification is a coordination tool. In doing so, it is important to always work with well-founded objectives, milestones, budgets, responsible actors, indicators and periodic evaluations of projects. By building the plan in this way, all projects and actions are comparable, measurable and therefore periodically monitored. Furthermore, it is also intended to carry out a thorough evaluation of the whole year and at the end of the legislative term. This plan therefore took maximum account of the recommendations of the Court of Auditors in an audit of 2020. With regard to methodologies, an evaluation of the current measurement methods for administrative simplification is under way with a view to policy-relevant reporting and valorisation, including by re-establishing a measuring agency to provide expertise in quantifying the administrative burden of federal government policies. In order to further strengthen our ambitions, we will also call on consultancy to further strengthen the capacity for analysis and preparation of simplification proposals. It goes without saying that all partners and stakeholders play a key role in terms of simplification. Together, we can continue to take steps. Administrative simplification is something that all administrations and government members should strive for, not just the State Secretary concerned and the Administrative Simplification Service. All federal organisations are involved in the design and implementation of policies. They must therefore cooperate intensively in order to achieve the stated objective of this policy. It is therefore our objective to further respond to all relevant administrations and government members, so that each person concerned contributes to a sustainable policy. The management structure for administrative simplification within the federal government should therefore also reflect this intention. One of the most tangible objectives of governance of administrative simplification that I want to achieve in this legislature is the integration of the DAV into the FOD BOSA. In my view, this integration has only advantages, both in terms of administrative simplification policy and in terms of the functioning of the DAV and in terms of the well-being of its staff. Horizontal policies, such as administrative simplification, would benefit most from integration into a cross-cutting approach and centralised supervision structure. With the creation of the FOD BOSA, the government has decided to integrate and improve the common support processes within the FODs, to increase the efficiency of federal administrations and to improve the service to citizens and businesses. Following the reform programme for federal redesign launched in 2015, the transfer of tasks of administrative simplification to the FOD BOSA will contribute to a strong central management of administrative simplification, with a view to efficient coordination and implementation of this policy. In order to structurally integrate all components of administrative simplification at federal level, the FOD BOSA should establish effective synergies between DAV, the Directorate-General for Digital Transformation and the Directorate-General for Budget and Policy Review. Among other things, the Steering Committee will be extended to ensure its representativeness in the coming years. There are 38 priority projects. In addition to the strengthening of the methodological structure of the plan and the strengthening of policy control, there is, of course, also a need for real simplification. In the federal plan we distinguish between, on the one hand, a number of priority projects and, on the other hand, a general inventory of all simplification projects in the federal government. Those priority projects are, either by their transversal nature or by their significant impact in a given policy area, as it were, the spearheads of the federal plan and also the government's extension. Priority projects are grouped under the following axes: building blocks for a digital society, better regulation and efficient SME-friendly regulation, open data and increased transparency on government data, cross-cutting simplification files for a targeted digital government. Both the priority projects and the inventory will be updated annually. Projects shall only be added if they are formally approved and budgeted by the competent authorities. The advantage of such an annual updating of the priority projects is that the list always consists of approved and budgeted initiatives to be implemented during the year x plus 1. In this way, the action plan remains concrete and tangible and can be demonstrated each year what the achievements and their impact are. For example, a subsequent annual update will take into account, inter alia, the simplification proposals formulated by the DAV Steering Committee, as well as the proposals received in December from the Self-employed and SME High Councils. Examples of priority projects include electronic invoicing, the reform of the certificate 6 % VAT renovation, the single digital gateway, the application and renewal of the driving licence online, the generalised electronisation of the ecocheque and the automation of the social tariff for telecoms. As far as the inventory for administrative simplification is concerned, in addition to the priority actions set out in the Action Plan, we aim to produce an exhaustive overview of the efforts made by the federal government during its term of office to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and businesses. Such a general overview will allow, inter alia, links to be established between projects in the federal landscape and will improve the government's ability to succeed and ensure a more transparent and accessible impact for all stakeholders. The DAV, in consultation with all administrations, will be responsible for the preparation of that inventory, which will be updated annually.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u3	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your very clear explanation. What I regret is that the Council of Ministers had already taken note of your plan on 28 January and that you did not come to Parliament until two months later. In addition, we only got the documents officially in our mailbox yesterday. I think that's outrageously late. For me, this shows little respect for Parliament. You would abolish the Administrative Simplification Service and integrate it into the FOD BOSA. However, we find nothing of this in your action plan, which still refers to this service. It is important to know whether and how this will happen. We are clearly talking about an extension of the 2015 Michel Government's redesign project, for which Minister Vandeput was responsible. We know that this decision for a first reading was taken at the Council of Ministers on Friday 1 April. This will then have to be reviewed with the trade unions and sent to the Council of State for advice. So we're still working on it before it can be implemented. As you said, this would be implemented on 1 July, thus eliminating the DAV and integrating it into the FOD BOSA. You will regulate those administrative simplification tasks that were included in the Royal Decree of 22 February 2017 establishing the FOD BOSA with a bill. The DAV will therefore be effectively abolished and some of the staff will be transferred through mobility. A solution will therefore have to be found for the others. A Steering Committee for Administrative Simplification is also established within the Directorate-General for Digital Transformation of the FPS Policy and Support. That is all very well and we welcome this decision. It is good that the 2015 reform project launched will continue. This decision also reflects the criticism expressed by the Court of Auditors in its report of 2020. As you said, horizontal policies benefit from strong central management, which we do not have at the federal level today. I would like to hear exactly why you have taken this step. Do you recognise that this will implement the 2015 reform programme on redesign? The N-VA Group believes that the responsibility for administrative simplification should be transferred from you to Mrs De Sutter. Unfortunately, until today, we have seen few actions from your point of view. It would also be much better if the minister responsible for the FOD BOSA would also be responsible for the new assignments that the FOD BOSA will receive. This simplification would be more than beneficial to policy. Unfortunately, the realisations of the Administrative Simplification Service since your arrival are very poor. In 2020, there were five, six in 2021 and one in 2022. At the time when the N-VA was in the government, Mr Francken had his hands full with Asylum and Migration as Secretary of State. That's taken up a lot of his time. In 2014, he achieved 47 actions, in 2016 68, in 2017 60 and in 2018 24. That's significantly more than what you've done. So I cannot get rid of the idea that, unfortunately, you will not leave a lasting impression, not in terms of digitisation but also in terms of administrative simplification. Beautiful words and abstract ambitions are very nice, but there is still a big difference with concrete policy actions. We also expected concrete policy actions from every member of the government, including you. Will you transfer responsibility for Administrative Simplification to the Minister responsible for the FOD BOSA? Is there any provision for political simplification here? It is clear that the government will not achieve its objective of reducing the administrative burden by 30% in this way, as will the federal government's ambition to create a business-friendly administration serving our businesses and our economic development. Administrative simplification today is very important for our self-employed and our SMEs. They still consider these burdens to be among the most difficult points and obstacles they face on their path. Until today, they're gonna be incredibly hard on them. A new Kafka plan was also needed by mid 2021 with ambitious simplification for citizens, businesses and civil society. Unfortunately, this objective has also remained dead letter. Was a zero measurement carried out at the start of the legislative period in order to compare the administrative burden? In this way one can see to what extent that 30% would have already been achieved. If so, what initiatives have already been taken? What additional administrative burdens has the government already introduced since its inception? Were they compensated for by administrative simplifications? To what extent has the Kafka plan of 2021 been developed? Is it even gonna be there? We all know that self-employed and SMEs are not left to the test. That is why the High Council for Self-employed and SMEs delivered an opinion on its own initiative on 7 December, not with 38 proposals but with 129 proposals for administrative simplification. Our group finds it very strange that your plan has only 38 priority proposals, whereas this opinion was known before you came out with yours. You missed an opportunity here to simplify the lives of the self-employed and SMEs. What proposals by the High Council for Self-employed and SMEs have already been translated into policy initiatives? That's a fun fact for me, isn't it? What projects will be implemented as part of the update of the Federal Action Plan for Administrative Simplification? Let us be clear: the N-VA shares the ambition to achieve that 30% reduction in administrative burdens. It is absolutely necessary to focus on administrative simplification and digitisation. A powerful government with a performance service can make a difference. It provides greater satisfaction, not only for citizens but also for entrepreneurs. It can also strengthen confidence in the government, which is an absolute necessity. Administrative simplification also increases the competitiveness of our companies. It encourages entrepreneurial activity and makes room for the entrepreneur to focus on his core business, his core business, being entrepreneurship, and not just on filling out unnecessary papers. Administrative simplification also opens up scope for public authorities to pursue new policies. This space can be used to launch or strengthen other initiatives. Steps can be taken towards a more efficient and effective government. Moreover, this will lead to savings, not only for the government, but for society as a whole. How much room has been made through administrative simplification since Vivaldi took office? What concrete steps will be taken towards a more efficient and effective government? How much was saved, both for the government and for society? The list of priority projects launched in the course of 2022 includes 38 projects, as you have mentioned. I regret that projects that will not be completed in 2022 will simply be transferred to another year. In addition to the administrative proposals, the recommendations and proposals of stakeholders and associations of interests will be taken into account as far as possible. Do you have any idea which interested parties or interest groups, except the Supreme Court of course, will make proposals to reduce the administrative burden? How will they be involved in implementation? As far as the budgetary impact is concerned, the implementation of the projects must, of course, be within the agreed budgetary framework. You indicated that this is indeed the case. I wonder whether there is or will be room for further questions that need to be discussed in the context of a budget. Are you considering this? Even more important is what you are going to do when the money is gone and it is still good projects. We also see that many projects depend on one member of the government or on one administration. The N-VA wants to advocate a plan with more transversal and thus cross-border projects. This includes common objectives in the strategic plans or in the governance agreements, in order to achieve greater synergy in terms of simplification. I wondered how and through which projects your action plan will achieve a more transversal approach. Are the quantified objectives for administrative simplification already included in the new administrative agreements? We know that a lot of work has been done on the Only Once Law principle in recent years, so much is clear. However, we note that much progress can be made so far to further anchor that principle. What concrete progress do you intend to make in this area? What about sharing information between the different authorities? Can governments still request a document on a citizen already known at a different level? We all know that costs are already charged when a citizen requests a document from the government. What happens to those costs, which should no longer be necessary? You also mentioned the exhaustive overview you want to implement. What is the current state of this inventory? I would have liked to know whether we could take note of this, so whether you would like to share it with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u4	After Mrs Goethals, who spoke for almost ten minutes, I give the floor to Mr Senesael for the PS group.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u5	Madam President, the agenda announces a question that I will ask. Following the presentation of the Secretary of State, I would like to add a few remarks and comments. Mr Secretary of State, even if it is no longer too topical in view of your presentation, it has recently been announced in the press that you wish to remove the Agency for Administrative Simplification (ASA) by a bill and integrate it into the services of the Strategy and Support SPF (BOSA) by royal decree. If the deletion was later denied, the proposal to attach it to another administrative entity was confirmed. The aim of the SAA is to reduce administrative complexity for businesses, citizens, associations and other administrations. Several negative opinions were shared by the Finance Inspectorate or the Belgian Federation of Enterprises on this project, worrying about a possible loss of independence in the context of the Agency's integration into a federal public service. In addition, Mr. Secretary of State, you pointed out in a recent intervention that the Agency was experiencing recruitment problems in order to fill the shortage of five of its staff out of a total of twelve. Secretary of State, what are your intentions about the SAA transfer project? If so, what will be the agenda for both the Royal Decree on the transfer and the reassignment of the Agency to a different administrative authority? What will happen to SAA staff, management and expertise? What are your objectives in terms of recruitment of missing staff and strengthening of SAA services? In addition, you have listed the 38 priority projects that will be placed during the year 2022. These projects will be monitored and evaluated by the Agency for administrative simplification jointly with the responsible administrations on the basis of a project sheet. The Council of Ministers has indicated that you yourself will continue to monitor the progress of these projects through an inter-federal working group, which will also serve as a platform for discussion and evaluation of any new projects to be included. What will be the objective? What will be your involvement in the follow-up to this platform? This project aims to strengthen the SAA by placing it under the supervision of the SPF BOSA. The Vif tells us that this preliminary draft and a royal decree to enshrine the ASA in BOSA were drafted in early February and were ready to be signed. But still according to the same media, the Finance Inspectorate would have carried out this project of union between the SAA and BOSA. A clearly negative opinion was therefore issued by the Finance Inspectorate. What will be your reaction? What will be your course of action as a result of this? On November 25, 2021, you presented us with your policy note. I had intervened at the time to indicate that you had set a course: 30% less administrative burdens by 2024. Scanning had a rightful share of choice in your note. A federal plan on administrative simplification was clearly defined. At the time, you detailed the projects that would be implemented in 2022. Minister, here too, we have drawn attention to digitisation to simplify our administrative procedures. This must obviously be a plus, not a new brake for some in their relations with the authorities. For us, the accessibility of our administrations by all must remain a priority, otherwise we risk further widening the gap between the digital divide and exclusion. It is therefore important to look at such an action plan with its implications for citizens, but also for public servants in their daily work. The fight against the digital divide, on the one hand, and the consultation with the social partners, on the other hand, but also the different levels of power and, in particular, the President will not deny me, the local authorities are essential in the implementation of this plan. For us, Secretary of State, these are fundamental principles. I therefore draw your special attention to the reading of this plan, since the principle of digital by default is devoted to it. I recall that everyone is focused on the service of the State. I would also like to draw your attention to the importance of respect for the GDPR in the management of the many data managed under this plan and the importance of keeping the procedures for the identification of citizens and public officials, i.e. 100% in the hands of the public authorities. Here are my questions and thoughts, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u6	I am glad that administrative simplification will continue to be used. The figures of the Planning Bureau show that the total cost of administrative burdens has decreased by 27% compared to 2016, representing a significant amount of EUR 4.94 billion. Based on a new survey in autumn 2021, the total administrative costs of almost 203.000 Belgian companies were estimated at 3.81 billion euros or 0.83 % of GDP. For more than 459,000 self-employed persons, the cost was EUR 1.13 billion or 0.25 % of GDP. Do you have any idea how much more can be saved per project? Could you give us an overview of this, if necessary? This can also be done in writing afterwards. The Court of Auditors also carried out an audit on the functioning of the DAV and the implementation of the federal action plan. It reads that the support of the DAV to the FODs is largely underutilised. The FPS make little or no use of the offer of project management and training. The advice of the DAV, mainly in the context of the application of the only-once principle, is also often not taken into account, whether due to lack of time or money in the FPS. It is also worth noting that the DAV was not involved in the formulation of the cross-cutting objectives for administrative simplification in the governing agreements of the FPS. Nor does the DAV have the necessary information to monitor and evaluate its implementation. The reporting point for complaints from businesses and citizens has been used very little over the years. The DAV receives little input for further actions through that channel. How can the action plan respond to this? The DAV has the evaluation and monitoring of the action plan, but how will you ensure that this can be done, as the other FPS do not use the service very much? The Court recommends that clear objectives and priorities for a fully-fledged regulatory quality policy be defined from a coherent vision of improving existing and new regulations. We read that the organisation must be able to rely on clear responsibilities and the necessary capacity must be guaranteed. The legislator and the judiciary should also be involved, respecting each and every one's powers and responsibilities to promote acceptance and knowledge exchange. The drafting of an action plan is, of course, a first step in the right direction. This partly reflects the comment of the Court of Auditors. However, he advocated clear responsibilities and the necessary capacity. Did you get a good deal? What can and may the DAV do to encourage the FPS to work on their projects? Are they allowed to take initiatives themselves? Will the DAV have additional capacity to follow up the action plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u7	Mr. Secretary of State, thank you for your presentation and for all the work you have done to establish this federal action plan for administrative simplification 2022-2024. This is an important task given the potential benefit of reducing administrative burden, in particular in terms of efficiency, performance, economy and, consequently, competitiveness. Your plan is very clear and structured in four main areas: strengthening the methodological structure, strengthening the governance of administrative simplification within the federal government, priority projects and the federal inventory of administrative simplification. As you explained, a total of 38 projects are planned for 2022, which include taxation, mobility, economics, employment, social affairs and public health. This demonstrates the need for cross-cutting administrative simplification. In particular, I consider project 11 to introduce the possibility of applying for an online driving licence rather than having to travel to the municipality. My colleague Senesael will understand why. I also note that an inter-federal working group will be set up to monitor the progress of these projects. This group will serve as a platform for the discussion and evaluation of any new projects to be included in the objective of maximizing synergies between services. We therefore express our full support for this monitoring and evaluation approach, which, of course, seems essential to us in order to optimize such synergy or to refine such a method. At this point, can you tell us more about this working group? When can it be set up? What types of profiles could be drawn up and what would be its pace of work? Mr Secretary of State, I thank you on behalf of the MR Group for your involvement in the area of administrative simplification. I know that you are attentive to the fight on the digital divide, that you also anticipate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u8	Thank you for your questions and comments. I would like to recall an essential element. The objective of administrative simplification was set in particular by the government agreement: to reduce administrative burdens by 30% by 2024. Since the creation of the Simplification Agency (SAA), we have been working on collaborations that give us the ability to estimate reductions. I don't have the figures for 2021 yet, but for 2020, we're talking about nearly 300 million euros saved. In my opinion, this figure is interesting because for the €300 million saved, 43% were saved for the citizen and 50% were saved for businesses. This is a strong signal that most of the simplification is clearly oriented towards the central user – citizens and businesses. For all questions related to estimates and evaluations, we are accompanied by operators, independent consultants who help us identify cost reductions or reductions in relation to the processes we implement. This administrative simplification plan and the Kafkaplan talk about the same thing. We are really talking about the plan, the strategy that makes it possible to simplify processes and burdens for our citizens and businesses. Indeed, the dossier was passed on to the Council of Ministers in December and we had to find a date to come and present it to you. I hear that two months is a long time. Next time, we'll try to move faster. I think it was important to be able to have this exchange with you. It is also important to do this work of transparency. I don't think everyone always does. In my view, this is important because democracy requires an exchange with Parliament. It's essential. I hear we can always go faster. Among the comments I have heard, the way in which we focus on the tool is a key point: the Administrative Simplification Agency is a tool that is now composed of seven people on a framework that, in its entirety, should be twelve people. In my view, if we want to be effective in administrative simplification, we must have effective tools. When it is identified that an Administrative Simplification Agency is composed of only seven people, it is important to consider how best to strengthen this tool. Indeed, we found that bringing the tasks of administrative simplification back to a much stronger, stronger and more cross-cutting administration had a whole range of advantages in order to be more able to have an effective tool. It is not a question of abrogation of missions but of taking the Agency for administrative simplification and integrating it into BOSA and in particular into DGDT. To be even more transparent with you, know that it is a proposal that has been made and that the decision has not yet been taken. The proposal has been made and it is in this direction that I propose to move forward. I understand that this must be done in full respect of the employees who work with us at the Agency for Administrative Simplification (ASA). There was a question about the role of the Secretary of State in charge of Simplification or the Minister in charge of the Public Service. This is a relevant issue and that is why we are working in a totally integrated way, because it is employees who have to implement administrative simplification. It touches on digital, processes, global visions. Therefore, it is not the question of who should take care of it, but rather of how best to work together. I can tell you that, whether it is with Petra De Sutter or with other government colleagues, the important thing is to be able to work better together and share coherent and convergent visions. That's what we're working on. I regret that the analysis of policy effectiveness is based on the number of cases or things that have been completed. I think quality replaces quantity. In recent months, a number of dossiers have drawn the attention of my colleagues and myself: it is a matter of consulting on the objectives, focusing on the essentials and highlighting two singular projects which, in my view, are tools of administrative synthesis. The first of these tools is the single digital gateway. This is the first project that I highlighted in my first policy statement and which sets out 21 very specific procedures to be implemented, and not always clearly. Indeed, the single digital gateway is a European tool which, in Belgium, aims to bring together different government institutions. Another essential tool that is at the heart of the whole process is the digital portfolio. This portfolio is a synthesis of a number of measures that we need to take in order to be able to offer our fellow citizens digital tools for simplification. The digital portfolio is obviously based on an authentic data system. We have worked a lot on transferring the logic from authentic sources to authentic data, in order to avoid any duplication of data that undermines the interoperability capacity of processes. As far as the digital portfolio is concerned, a great deal of work has been done to prepare for the adaptation of certain processes, be it the e-box law – which we did not mention in this presentation – or the "only once" law, which will have to be adapted to build a system. I confess, I'm not running after a number of cases where I check boxes. What interests me is to find the key and priority issues that will unlock the capacity for simplification for citizens. That is why we are developing converging tools to really change the capacity and how citizens are respected in their administrative processes. I think very interesting steps are under way. A few days ago, I awarded a prize to Digitaal Vlaanderen, who set up the "Burgerprofiel" project. Our intention is really to contribute to these kinds of initiatives, which at some point allow tools to converge towards an efficient gateway. That's how we work, it's not by running after check-boxes. I really stress that in order to get to this project, collaboration is really essential in the context of administrative simplification. It is a collaboration with the other members of the government but also with all the social and economic partners and the Council of Independents. As you said, more than 120 proposals have been made. But it is not enough to take these 120 proposals and put them in a plan, it would not be serious. They must be examined to see which ones are applicable and can be implemented. This work is under way, a number of elements have already been handed over to us, some of which are already in the current plan and others will have to be implemented. On the other hand, the adaptability of proposals is now the subject of analysis in functional services at the level of the Economy and Justice in particular. The aim is to see which proposals can be added to this plan and whether they are feasible within the relevant deadlines, i.e. by 2024. The savings to be realized are in the order of 30% by 2024, with the help of external agencies. At the action level, 38 priority projects have been identified. Some of them are supported by the services concerned and others, in terms of open data, digital portfolio, "only once" law, are clearly cross-cutting. Cross-cutting work can be carried out, but it is not for the administrative simplification service to succeed in changing all processes of all services. This work also depends on the services themselves. The inventory is important and I have no problem with making it transparent when it is completed. Finally, if we are to move towards simplification on the basis of digital by default, strong attention must be paid to the digital divide, digital inclusion, as well as to confidence in digital tools. I am thinking in particular of compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation, respect for privacy, a Data Protection Authority that operates to the maximum of its capacity and efficient legislation. That is why I made it clear in my introduction that my job is to simplify but it is also to reassure. It is therefore putting everyone in the process of simplification through digitalisation. The third part of my work is stimulating. Stimulating is to consider that this kind of project is carried out in convergence with all the actors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, you have answered many of my questions. You found my question on the transfer of powers pertinent and I am pleased with that. I wonder how that vision will be worked out. I'll note that we'll get more information on the inventory as soon as you get a look at it. I'll be sure to follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u10	Mr. Secretary of State, I thank you for your various elements of response that bring us into practice with the federal action plan, the methodology put in place and the objectives to be achieved. All this is at a good level in view of the different results that are expected. However, I stress again and again the digital divide that affects some of our fellow citizens. We must not lose sight of this at the risk of missing out on priority objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u11	Madam President, in view of Mr Senesael's insistence, I should like to inform you that tomorrow there will be a press conference on a project we are proposing on the digital divide. This should particularly please all the mayors, including you certainly, Mrs Taquin. If you wish, I'll talk to you about it after the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, you announced your intention to give every Belgian a digital portfolio by 2023. That digital portfolio would bring together all official documents, such as the identity card, the driving licence, the wedding booklet or a visa. The purpose of the digital portfolio is to link all the data of the different governments in our country and make it available more efficiently. That is, of course, necessary, because we live in a complex state with many different governments. The digital portfolio can help to simplify the lives of every Belgian. What exactly the portfolio will look like in practice is not yet clear, although an app will be developed and the portfolio may also be accessed via a website. A budget of EUR 50 million is earmarked for development. In traffic, too, a lot of paperwork is needed to be on the road by car. Those poppies need to be renewed every year. Some are linked to the person, such as the driver's license and the identity card. Others are linked to the car, such as the registration certificate, the certificate of conformity, the green card/insurance certificate and a certificate of inspection. Which documents will be available in the digital portfolio? Do you see an extension of the digital wallet to the documents connected to the AudiTT or license plate and which can be shared digitally with other drivers of the car? How does cooperation with the other governments proceed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u14	The digital portfolio is based on the concept of digital identity. On 3 June 2021, the European Commission proposed a framework for the introduction of a European digital identity in the context of the revision of the European Regulation 910/2014 on eIDAS regulation. European citizens are given the right to digital identity in the form of a digital identity wallet. The wallet will enable them, among other things, to identify themselves online and offline via a smartphone and exchange information with third parties. The development and issuance of the wallet is carried out by the individual Member States. They will be recognised and used throughout Europe after distribution. The first version of the digital portfolio is scheduled for 2023. Basic identity documents will then be made available and will be available for consultation. The list of documents that can be consulted later is not limited. It's an open model. Documents and certificates attached to wagons are part of the digital portfolio. The procedures for posting will be evaluated together with the authorities responsible for the documents. Indeed, the concept of the digital portfolio means that every citizen will have access to his or her documents and will be able to share them with other persons and/or other public services if he or she so wishes. For information, the FOD BOSA and the FOD Home Affairs are already working together on the concepts of digital identity and portfolio. Finally, in order to make the portfolio a success, the participation of public administrations is crucial. Implementation will be carried out through programme management with steering committees involving the representatives of the other public administrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u15	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your positive reply. I hope the deadline is met. I'm looking forward to it. Every citizen is looking forward to digitalisation, which contributes directly to simplification. You also stress the importance of cooperation with other authorities. I hope it runs smoothly. I'll keep following up the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u16	Prime Minister, we have often debated the question of the Russian war in Ukraine. I would like to make three points on this matter today. First of all, we have the discussion that has not yet been completed on the fifth sanction package, where the big question is how far we are going with the ban on imports of Russian raw materials. This is in a very broad sense about oil, gas and uranium, but also about diamonds, a point on which I shall return. There is a risk that Russia will look for other markets and other countries will try to fill the gap. I am thinking here of the recent contacts between Russia and India. A second point concerns the diplomatic negotiations between Ukraine and Russia and the role that some countries want to play, for example Turkey. How can the European Union play a stronger role in this? A third point concerns the dimension of relations between Ukraine and the European Union. Are there any short-term opportunities for a strengthened partnership, possibly with a view to subsequent accession to the European Union? I have also tabled an oral question on diamonds and sanctions against Russia. A fifth sanction package was discussed on 24 and 25 March. There was some fuss about the import of rugged Russian diamond into our country. However, no further measures have been taken in this respect. There is a ban on exports of finished diamonds from our country or, in general, from the European Union to Russia, but there is no ban on imports. We have already discussed this in plenary. Of all rough diamonds in Russia, 99% is produced by the company Alrosa. In terms of total production, it accounts for 28% of total production. Almost a third of that company's shares are held by the Kremlin. There would also be links with the Russian nuclear agency Rosatom, which produces nuclear weapons. Alrosa makes serious profits, last year's net profit was 943 million dollars. That is and remains an important source of income for the Russian state and therefore for President Putin's war machine. Prime Minister, I would like to discuss this further with you. In our opinion, the import of raw Russian diamonds is best stopped for two reasons. Firstly, we are talking about revenue for Russia and therefore for the war machine, because the sums that are known are not nothing. The second reason is an ethical issue. To what extent do we tolerate that an economic sector in our country largely relies on the trade in so-called Russian blood diamonds? Russia is financing military operations in the war with Ukraine to a considerable extent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u17	Prime Minister, thank you for being here to answer our questions. We have just left the Deputy Prime Minister for Foreign Affairs. She told us about the expulsion of Russian diplomats, but my question is not about this news. Rather, it is interested in the international summits that were most recently devoted to the war in Ukraine. The partners' objective was to coordinate actions against Russia. It began with a NATO summit, followed by a G7 and then a European summit, attended by President Biden as a guest - if not an honour, at least a privileged one. As you know, it is essential for my group that Parliament can be involved in the actions of the government, which is why I would like to thank you again for your presence this afternoon. In the context of this war in Ukraine, a resolution was adopted in this direction by most parties - but we will not come back to the controversy - on 17 March. Prime Minister, how did Belgium position itself at the international meetings in which it participated? Have any further steps been taken to bring about an immediate cessation of hostilities?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u18	Prime Minister, I am pleased to be able to address you already. During our ongoing questioning session with Deputy Prime Minister Wilmès, we heard that you would also gladly welcome us here. It was a little skippery, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u19	I hope I don't have to solve any problems with Mrs Wilmès now that you've chosen to leave her and come to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u20	I'm going back later, Prime Minister. Thank you for being here. I had two questions, the first of which was already dealt with in the Federal Advisory Committee on European Affairs. Now I would like to talk in particular about the last European summit last week, which dealt mainly with the side effects of the conflict on energy supply and food security. One of the results of the summit was the decision of the European Union and the United States to set up a joint task force on energy security. The aim would be to achieve an annual supply of 50 billion cubic metres of liquefied natural gas from the US by 2030. What is your overall impression of the objectives of energy independence and food security discussed at that summit? Have we achieved what we wanted to achieve? As far as the task force mentioned above is concerned, it should help to free Europe from Russian gas. How do you assess the impact of that measure? Could it not be at the expense of our transition to other energy sources and to hydrogen as an energy carrier? Which own file could we deal with more quickly? How can we let our ports play a part in this? I am thinking, for example, of Ghent, which is important for hydrogen, or at the port of Zeebrugge, with the merger between the ports of Zeebrugge and Antwerp approved yesterday. What role do you see here for our ports? In addition, I would have liked to know what tactics the European Union has used here. At first, the EU said it wanted to be less dependent on Russian gas and then went on to negotiate with suppliers. It would have been better the other way around. After all, everyone knows that we really need that gas, while the other order would have given us a better negotiating position. What's your verdict on that? In addition to energy, food security or uncertainty also plays a role. The European Commission has drawn up a five-point plan for this purpose. It would be the first time that the Green Deal was being re-enabled, but almost the sacred grail within the European Union. What are the government's findings on this? All this is, of course, separate from the task force which Ministers Dermagne and Clarinval and Secretary of State De Bleeker will set up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u21	If there is no further request to speak, I give the floor to the Prime Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, you are always very welcome to attend the Federal Advisory Committee on European Affairs, in which we discuss some of these issues very frequently. Three major summits were held in Brussels last week. They have also produced results. A first result is a partnership with the United States. That was already the case at the last NATO summit, but then it was mainly a partnership in words and now more in action. There is consensus on how we see NATO as the cornerstone of our collective defence. There is also agreement on sanctions against Russia. Moreover, there is agreement on some additional steps to ensure that we get as many other countries in the world as possible on the same footing. I am thinking, for example, of India, China and Turkey. These countries have not taken over our sanctions, but the message to them has already been very clear. If they think they can serve as backdoors to avoid our sanctions and thus continue to feed the Russian war machine, then they must understand that there will be an answer from the United States and Europe. That is an important element. One of the elements is that in the energy transition, the United States has shown that it can be a partner by committing to delivering LNG this year again, next and next. Clearly, if you want to buy less Russian gas, buying it in the United States is a solution. It is clear that there are still certain operational difficulties with the promise to deliver. However this will happen in practice, it is not evident to increase production and to provide the necessary transport capacity. It does show that we are real partners in this. We welcome the fact that sanctions are announced in the same way, but the impact is, of course, much greater in Europe than in the United States. So we will need a piece of partnership to deal with that. Another element concerns energy. This is the subject that has the greatest impact on our population. Combined purchases can be made at European level. It should be noted that these are not mandatory group purchases. But I think it's an important message. Indeed, it would really be a mistake if each country, in its short-term transition effort to dispense with Russian gas and oil, found itself in a competition mechanism with other countries to try to obtain capacity. In my view, the European Union's ability to play that role is very important. The third element is the price mechanism. Belgium has played a leading role in this, but not because we would no longer believe in the free market. However, the gas market in particular has become completely dysfunctional and no longer corresponds to reality. That's why we had to intervene. A lot has also been heard from countries that were somewhat critical of this. The main concern is that deliveries are being made. We must, of course, ensure that our security of supply is not compromised. One of the main elements put forward is that this could be done in conjunction with industry. The mandate given to the European Commission is to consider in the lists of measures, such as the price cap, what could be introduced together with industry in the short term. My contacts make it clear that there are many energy players who also have problems with the fact that they have to charge very high prices to their consumers on the basis of something that they themselves have little fault for. They are prepared to use a number of mechanisms to try to bring prices down. In doing so, we have given the European Commission a very important task, and we have responded to the concerns of some countries. We have also looked at a solidarity mechanism in terms of how we deal with our gas resources. This will be developed in order to ensure that no countries are in trouble if, for example, Russia cuts off the supply very abruptly. The sanctions package today is quite unseen. Its impact is very clear. In my view, the main priority today is to close the back doors. There are still loopholes today, which do not always come from evil intentions. The measures go so far that countries sometimes make a mistake in their implementation. We have a lot to learn from each other in that regard. We must therefore ensure that it is done in a uniform manner. We must urge other countries not to allow them to circumvent the sanctions. As far as the new package of measures is concerned, we have said that we subscribe to the Commission's reasoning, namely that the sanctions we are imposing are intended to have an impact on the Russian side and on us as little as possible. After all, we are not at war with ourselves. We are not a military party to that war and we want to keep it that way. Economically, we want to take measures, but we also want to ensure that the impact on our society remains as limited as possible. That is the reasoning that the Commission has followed and which we have always supported. We have never blocked certain measures. We have never been in a situation where, for example, the Commission wanted to take measures in the field of diamonds, when our country would have a problem with that. We have always gone along with the general reasoning. I want to be clear, should the Commission conclude in its démarches that measures should be taken to import rough diamonds from Russia, our country will not oppose this, assuming that the Commission's general reasoning continues to apply. We have always looked at sanctions with an open eye. What we want is that sanctions can have an impact more quickly, an impact on Russian economic activities and Russia's ability to finance the war. Mr De Vriendt, I hear the objections you raise to certain economic actors, but we also have to look at reality. The reality is that Russia does not have alternative markets for certain products and it does for other products. So there is a certain form of asymmetry. The reasoning that sanctions should be imposed which have an impact on Russia and which cannot be avoided for Russia is an important element in the European Commission's assessment. We are not in a situation where we are proposing measures. The balance was that there are certain sectors where the net impact of measures would be much more with us than with them. I want to make it very clear that the Commission is in charge of this. If the Commission were to reach a different conclusion for another package, we would not be in a situation where we would reject or block certain measures. On food security, Mrs Van Bossuyt has already said that a federal working group is working on this, with Minister Dermagne and Minister Clarinval, together with the National Crisis Centre. If we come into a situation of certain food shortages, then the Crisis Centre intervenes. It is clear that a European approach is also needed. A package of short-term measures is being developed to ensure the affordability of food and long-term measures for farmers suffering from increased production costs for raw materials. With regard to the energy transition, we see that all European countries have taken irreversible steps in recent months to detach themselves from Russian energy sources. These are strategic choices that are made and they are not reversed. Germany's choice to invest massively in accelerating renewable energy will enable them to completely turn their backs on Russian imports, which are still very important for Germany, in the coming years. We have chosen to extend the lifespan of two nuclear reactors while at the same time investing heavily in accelerating sustainability. Those are choices that go in a strategic direction. All European countries have done so in recent months. I think they're the right choices. How can we position ourselves in that? Certain things in which we are good have become more important. We have developed a leading position in the past decades when it comes to windmills at sea. Now that's considered interesting. When I talk about this with European colleagues, I hear that there are many contacts with our country. How did you do that? How could we better organise that? The development of the wind farm in the North Sea, where we will be fully connected, is an example of projects that are accelerated by what has happened in Ukraine over the past few weeks. In the case of hydrogen, the same movement is seen. The Flemish government, in cooperation with the federal government, has done a lot of work to develop a hydrogen strategy. All this is now being accelerated by the needs of our country and of other regions in Europe. For example, we want to preserve the chemical industry in our country and hydrogen will be crucial for this, such as for the ArcelorMittal project in Ghent that stands or falls with access to hydrogen. When I speak to the Prime Minister of North Rhine-Westphalia, where the Flemish Government is visiting today, hydrogen is the subject he wants to talk about, because he wants to have access to energy sources. As is often the case, a crisis is also an opportunity. The incredible acceleration of the European Union's energy union has enormous opportunities for our country, given the knowledge we have in certain sustainability domains and the very high degree of interconnection of our country with the rest of Europe. Everyone understands that energy independence and the acceleration of sustainability are tied together. Its implementation differs a little from one country to another, but the argument that we need to become more energy independent and therefore ensure that we accelerate on renewable energy has become very concrete in a few weeks' time. Some countries will continue to use nuclear energy as a stepping-up technology, others will invest in it further. In my view, that is a good thing and it will also help to bring prices down. The only technology whose prices fall year after year is renewable energy. The European Commission is continuing the discussion to ensure that the lower price of renewable energy is reflected in the price setting. In fact, this is far too little today, because the pricing mechanism dates back to a time when renewable energy was very limited and wanted to be encouraged. Today we are in a situation in which renewable energy plays a much more important role in some countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u23	Mr Prime Minister, thank you for making time for this debate in our committee. The question of which economy is most affected by these sanctions is indeed a legitimate question. That is a legitimate consideration. At the same time, I think it is important to pay attention to that other question, which is purely ethical: we accept that a sector in our country is spinning with rough Russian diamonds, which we know will end up with Putin, and are therefore being used for the invasion of Ukraine. That seems to me to be an equally important question. There is also a difference between rough diamonds and, for example, oil or gas. One is more necessary than the other. We're working on our independence. We want to cut Russia off as much revenue as possible. However, we also know that Russia is now seeking alternative markets for all these things, including for oil, including for gas. Contacts with China and India are becoming more intense. Perhaps we are just at the right time, if I may say so, because the links between Russia and a number of countries are not yet sufficiently developed to fully compensate the European Union as a partner. That's a good thing. That gives us some leverage right now. You are, of course, right: the sanction package is huge. It is unseen, but I would like to call on the Belgian Government to continue to advocate further sanctions and to refine the package of sanctions. The war machine doesn't stop yet. The war's been going on for a month now. I would ask you to maximise the economic leverage and to make proposals as far as possible for the further extension of the sanction packages. You say that we are taking initiatives to close the loopholes and we call on other countries to close the back door. That is, of course, a very general statement. I must say that I rarely read anything that is more concrete, something with more power. I don't have the answer myself. I think it's a very difficult question. How are we going to get other countries to close their doors to Russia? One has to start working with certain conditions. I do not know what weight is being placed in the scales to persuade other countries not to extend their ties with Russia further. I think it is a very difficult issue. I hope that every effort will be made at diplomatic level to achieve this ambition.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u24	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. What I like about you is your positivism. You are aware of the difficulties, but you want to see them as opportunities for radical change, considering that the European Union's path is the only possible and lasting way in the short, medium and long term. I'm in full agreement with you on this. As was the case during the pandemic, European solidarity began. It is at European level that the device, the core of the reactor, must be activated to enable us to deal with these conflicts, with prospects that go far beyond the intrinsic possibilities of any Member State of the European Union, if alone. This is a first element of satisfaction. Moreover, as you know, my group has long advocated for a Europe of defence. In 2010, I think I signed a resolution to that effect. Through our commitment to NATO, we need a European defence pole. As we can see today, European interests are not systematically the same as those of the Americans. And I admit I was a little scared, following President Biden's statements. Even if we have to stand in solidarity with the United States, when he said that Vladimir Putin was a butcher, that he hoped he would be overthrown, he did not facilitate the dialogue and he put the European Union, which is at the forefront geographically speaking, into trouble. A Europe of defence would therefore enable us to empower ourselves. This would also enable us to better position ourselves vis-à-vis Turkey, which is a member of NATO and which adopts more than ambiguous positions regarding the sanctions imposed by the European Union on Russia. Finally, and do not take this remark as a reproach because I have a lot of admiration for you and I have a lot of respect for the government in which my party participates, you have talked a lot about the elements related to Flanders in terms of energy transition and the consultations that take place with the Flemish economic and industrial fabric. This is obviously very important. But I would like to remind you that there is also an industrial fabric in Brussels and Wallonia, that the autonomous port of Liège is the first inland port in Belgium. It is connected to Antwerp via the Albert Canal and is the second or third European inland port; since I am a Liegeese, I would say rather that it is the second European inland port. It is surrounded by 33 ports. So it is really one of the important vectors of the Walloon economy. As we talk about wealth creation everywhere, if we want a healthy federal Belgium, we must stimulate and protect all the actors who make Belgium a beautiful country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u25	First of all, Prime Minister, it is important to strengthen ties with the United States. However, we must not forget that the interests of the United States are different from those of the European Union. The US wants nothing more than for the European Union to focus fully on them and less on China. The United States doesn't just want to play the big patron. There are other interests and we must not be naive in this respect. We also have many economic interests in China, and we must not lose sight of that. Secondly, it is recalled that we have already built up some experience with group purchases, which were also successful for group purchases of vaccines against COOVID-19. Of course, it can be seen in what way one understands success. Moreover, we cannot compare the group purchases of gas with those of vaccines against covid-19. After all, these vaccines did not exist yet, while gas is already available everywhere. There is a different effect in part. For the first time, you say that a price ceiling, which our country has been advocating for the time being, may not be the only option. We have to pay attention to the negative effects. After all, it is very easy for gas suppliers to turn to continents that do want to pay a higher price. You have just stated that the main concern is the security of supply. I fear that in the event of such a price cap, gas suppliers will check where they can get the best price to deliver their gas. We must be very careful about that. In your opinion, other Member States have taken irreversible decisions. I am very pleased that the Belgian Government did not take its decision on the core exit in December. If you are honest, you have to admit that a different decision would have been taken in December than that taken last month. I am pleased that our group, with Mr Wollants in the lead, has strongly advocated keeping the nuclear power stations open. If not, we would have been faced with an irreversible decision, which would only have made us more dependent on gas imports. We should even build up gas plants, with all the consequences. Moreover, given the current events, we would have missed the opportunity to increase our independence. We have limited ourselves to keeping the two youngest nuclear power stations open for longer, rather than keeping them open as long as possible. This can be done in a safe way; the FANC can assess that safety perfectly. So why not keep nuclear power stations open until they are 80 years old, precisely for the sake of energy independence? That must not be taboo; it is happening in the United States. You speak of nuclear energy as a stepping-up technology towards renewable energy, but I believe that nuclear energy is a very sustainable energy source in itself. Finally, I would like to hear you say that nuclear energy does not have to mean that we invest less in renewable energy. This is sometimes claimed, but is contradicted by studies. In Scandinavian countries, with greens in the government, the energy mix is half renewable energy and half nuclear energy, so it can go hand in hand perfectly. So this is a warm call for the full use of nuclear energy. This does not mean that we invest less in renewable energy or in green hydrogen. This is important for our future energy independence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u26	I would like to add something because I have been incomplete in relation to the hydrogen strategy. The decision of 18 March confirms that investments will be accelerated in the establishment of a hydrogen backbone and, first of all, the emphasis will be on industrial clusters in Flanders (Anvers and Ghent), Wallonia (Hainaut, Liège) and Brussels. This confirms your comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u27	Prime Minister, many Ukrainians flee their country because of Russia's invasion. For example, more than 28,000 refugees have already arrived in the Territory since the beginning of the war. Belgium usually receives an average of 25,000 people a year - and the figure of 200,000 is projected for this crisis. Even though governments have already taken several steps, it is up to us from the ground that the situation is complicated for the municipalities that are again on the front line, as during the crisis of the covid. Local agents receive numerous, evolutionary and sometimes contradictory information between the federal, federated entities, governors and supra-municipal structures. For example, both the Federal and the Walloon Region have launched platforms to introduce housing proposals. A level of power primarily calls on the mayors to find collective accommodation places, in particular through requisitions, while another request to rely mainly on the good will of the citizens. The only constant between the levels of power is the total lack of means for municipalities or individuals to take charge of emergency accommodation for Ukrainians in good conditions. This crisis cannot be envisaged at the regional or local level. The municipalities, already under considerable pressure because of the crisis of the covid, floods, for some, and this crisis really need support. We know, of course, that the federal government has granted complementary envelopes to the CPAS, but it remains that the communal services - in particular those of the population and the civil state - are overburdened. Belgium must live up to this issue, and we cannot allow the institutional lasagna to endanger a humane and effective reception or abandon the municipalities and the citizens in this matter. Of course, there are several possibilities. We are not saying that nothing has been done, but that the demands are diverse and varied, so that the municipalities are not always there. Prime Minister, are you considering launching the federal crisis management phase to deal with this issue, with all that this implies? Are you also thinking - and this is a strong demand on our part - about the appointment of a Commissioner for the reception of Ukrainian refugees, as we were able to have a Corona Commissioner? I still have a small sub-question. It was announced with great publicity that train trips would be free for Ukrainians. However, if they have been granted this free of charge, the cost is borne by the CPAS. SNCB sent them agreements - which it asked them to conclude - offering them 8,52 euros for a trip and 17,04 euros for a return trip. In short, I wonder about that. This information was sent to me by a CPAS. Fortunately, these trips are free for Ukrainians, but at the expense of CPAS. I would like to hear your views on this and the other issues I have asked you about.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u28	Since this is a topical debate, I would like to apologize to my colleague, Mr Segers. He had submitted a question which had accidentally ended up in the committee dealing with the national security strategy and has therefore put his question back. Unfortunately, he could not be here today, but out of respect for your service, which may have prepared the question carefully, I would like to put his question. There are indeed many signs that a number of Ukrainian refugees would be exploited, to the point of trafficking in human beings. This is now happening in many EU countries, and it is obvious that this is happening in our country. Where people find themselves in precarious conditions, exploiters see their chances clean. A transversal approach seems appropriate here as many areas of competence are involved, ranging from police and inspection services, over cities and municipalities, OCMWs, to hospitals, care centres, sexual violence centres. I come to the questions of my colleague. Have the various above mentioned Belgian services, across all areas of competence, already detected signs of abuse of Ukrainian refugees, to trafficking in human beings? Are these signals currently being actively cross-cutting in order to pay particular attention to the places where Ukrainian refugees arrive in Belgium in group and where they are in large numbers? Finally, whether there is already a coordinated plan of action against abuse, exploitation and trafficking in human beings across the fields of competence? What services are involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u29	Mr Prime Minister, of course the Ukraine crisis has come upon us. We must undoubtedly improvise in order to show the necessary solidarity, but it must also be said that the flow of refugees is not without danger to those who wish to show solidarity. The screening of the people who are coming, but also of the people who have volunteered to take care of families, is of the utmost importance. There are consequences for the people who wanted to go on holiday for a few days during the Easter holiday and are suddenly confronted with the fact that there is a family at their home that they didn't know a few weeks ago. Maybe that's gonna surprise some people. Please do not go through the comparison, but we know the sad fate of the impulse purchase of puppies from which one then wants to go on holiday. I fear that there is a risk of an effect that is even a little similar, even if one will not use the same way. Against this background, I know that many municipalities are currently making great efforts to carry out this screening. What support and what measures will be added at federal level, particularly with regard to the possible abuse of young people and children? They run the risk of ending up with people with less humanitarian intentions than they have feigned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u30	Madam Minister, honourable Members of Parliament, I will go into more detail on the questions raised, even though some of the questions have already been discussed in plenary. I do not want to limit this first issue to trafficking in human beings, because it is generally about people who are vulnerable, facing difficulties, traumas and fears. To this end, a task force has been set up, composed as follows: the three centres in the fight against trafficking in human beings, justice, the federal judicial police and the public prosecutor. The aim is to communicate, raise awareness and coordinate actions in the field. There is also consultation with the Länder in order to do so as easily as possible. We also want to give people the opportunity to communicate when they see that problems arise at some point, for example about their place of residence. It is not just about exploitation, but also about psychological counselling, trauma and sexual harassment. Meetings are held on a very regular basis in the Federal Coordination Committee. My cabinet is also following those meetings. Now I come to the questions about living wages. We have explained to the OMCWs how they should carry out the assessment. I insist that the OMCWs have the best judgmental ability to assess what degree of living wage refugees need. The directives we have distributed support them in this consideration. On screening, Minister Verlinden and Secretary of State Mahdi have already explained both in the Committee on the Interior and in the plenary. Mrs Matz, every week I attend a meeting with the ministers-presidents of the federated entities. At the beginning of the crisis, the question was whether a federal phase was necessary. The answer was and is still negative. On the ground, I do not see the need for a federal phase because the flow of information works well. Does that mean that there is no problem on the ground and that everything is going perfectly? Non. Mr De Roover, you pointed it out, sometimes there are operational difficulties. Unfortunately, that is inevitable. With regard to the need for a Commissioner of Government, I believe that the Crisis Centre is taking on this role at the moment. Most of the efforts are made by the federated entities and I know that at this level each one creates coordination structures, for example at the municipal level. I do not want to create an additional layer because I believe that the Crisis Centre plays its role very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u31	Prime Minister, thank you. You say you're aware that there are problems. I'm not saying everything's ugly. I said things had been done, but the majority of local agents on the ground – we met a lot of them – are completely lost in relation to what is happening. They are already told that the municipalities will have to find solutions when Ukrainians can no longer be accommodated in private housing. So once again we refer the hot potato to the communes that do not have the means in their administrative services – I am not talking about the CPAS – to implement these policies. But various and diverse orders come from governors, the Crisis Centre or federated entities, who say different things. So there is a lot of information that is not coordinated. The idea is not to create an additional layer but to have a federal phase that manages and coordinates the whole. The aim is to avoid all the friction that may exist in the various missions that are asked of the communes. We must stop overloading them because, in the end, they have to find a solution each time. You didn't answer me about the journeys. I can show you the e-mail received by the CPAS, who are asked to conclude a contract form for the journeys.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u32	Madame Matz, honestly, what you're telling me is new to me. I suggest that you ask Minister Gilkinet, who has jurisdiction in this area, for more details. I have no more information.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u33	I'll try to get the information, but it sounds like a lot of coffee, if I can say so. It's not right. We also continue to call for a federal phase. As you said, this was discussed in the discussions. I think we need to go now because, in three weeks' time, when people will no longer be able to house at the private level, we will have to find solutions and move on to a federal phase because all good will will will no longer be enough. The communes are really breathless, in any case many of them receiving refugees. I therefore continue to ask a Commissioner, not to add a layer, but to ensure that all aid is properly coordinated.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u34	As a mayor, I get all the information. I would like to receive them myself in order to be able to dispatch them in my commune, which has 31,000 inhabitants. I do not entirely agree, because everything depends on the perception of things. The fact that the municipalities are involved in the reception of refugees and in this new crisis seems normal to me! We must all stand in solidarity. The war broke out a few weeks ago and the reception had to take place in record time. We have therefore received a great deal of information to dispatch and distiller. We had not yet passed the yellow code that the war broke out and the communes did not have time to blow. But that's our job. The information was abundant but clear from the outset. Through the covid crisis, when something was wrong, I did not fail to trace the information. This information comes from the Crisis Centre. We receive information from federated entities in relation to their competences (ONE, schools, housing, transport, etc.).). The only information we receive in duplicate comes from the province because the Crisis Centre passes through the province. I think it's well managed and if something goes wrong, I'm sure I'll say it. It should not be forgotten that a municipality is a service to the population. The communes are therefore fully in their primary role in working to provide a service to a population, in this case a fragile population who left their country to flee the war by leaving behind family members who remained there to fight. We really are in our primary role.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u35	It's an additional point of information.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u36	Some smaller municipalities are very poor compared to others. I only ask for coordination and a little more coherence. We receive feedback from our agents who are on the front line and do the job, but who draw attention to financial limitations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u37	Prime Minister, this was not a criticism at all. I find it interesting to share experiences because when you say it's difficult for everyone, it's the truth: it's work, but it's not impossible. Why not consult all the municipalities to find out the difficulties they face and to take stock of them?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u38	I come from the province of Liège, in which there have recently been other events, including floods, which cause housing issues to be of great concern. My colleague the mayor of Wanze could testify to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u39	Indeed, Prime Minister, as you said, it is also about possible cases of exploitation. Hopefully not too much. Hopefully not. But it's not just about exploitation. It will also be very soon about solidarity. There's been some sort of impulse solidarity. However, private care will not be able to go on indefinitely, especially at present. I hear many mayors express the concern that they are faced with an assignment that they are opposed to when the refugees stand in front of their town hall. There are no miracle means, even if the Flemish government makes the efforts it makes. I believe that this element should be taken into account in any case. In addition to pure exploitation and pure child abuse, we have to take account of this, and there is also the ordinary process that people who make the effort to provide care at home at a certain time will find themselves in a new situation that cannot last.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u40	Mr Prime Minister, this is a completely different theme, but we are in a perfect storm, with corona, flu season, wars, high energy prices and a pan of swinging inflation. When I bought my first house, I had to borrow at 12 %. That sounds like a fantasy, but that was the case at the time. We then lived for a long time in a dream world without inflation. However, in January of this year the inflation rate was 7,6%. We have already made a huge amount of efforts that have had a significant impact on getting through the corona crisis. However, money is not available indefinitely. The result is that we are going to have a very high deficit. Inflation has a major impact on citizens. That is not what this question is about, but everyone is experiencing it more and more. Many have a month left at the end of their wages. It has effects deep down in the middle class. However, there is still a family father/mother who feels the effects of this, namely the budget. There is a great desire to make additional expenditure, also in the context of, for example, the Ukraine crisis. What information do you have on the evolution of the inflation rate? Is it a short-lived outburst? What is the impact of this on the budget deficit or the budget figure? What needs to be done about this, because, I think, one cannot, of course, watch for it without a job?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u41	Mr De Roover, in February the annual inflation rate was 8.04 % according to the FPS Economy. That is indeed a very high figure. It is true that the outlook for the coming months is extremely uncertain. It will depend very much on how international energy and raw materials prices evolve and what impact this evolution has on economic growth. At present, the Federal Planning Office expects inflation to continue at the end of this year to be 3.83% on an annual basis. From February 2023, inflation will fall below 2% according to the Federal Planning Office. In any case, we are following this very closely. This is done not only at Belgian level but also at European level, at the ECB. In general, there are two phenomena that play. On the one hand, high inflation will have an upward effect on public expenditure. For example, there is the indexation of civil servants' betting, social benefits, energy bills for federal administrations and so on. On the other hand, it will also increase revenue. For example, the indexation of wages in the private sector also includes taxes and social contributions. Of course, there are also indirect effects. If high inflation were to slow down economic growth, it would, of course, also have a negative impact on public finances. The National Bank and the Planning Bureau follow that very closely. The report of the Monitoring Committee also reflects this. Of course things can change very quickly. We're gonna have to update and reevaluate this all the time. We are, as you know, in the process of budgetary control. The main task of course is to see if the measures decided in October and the measures taken in recent weeks are already on track. The latter are, in fact, typical measures that would be taken during budgetary control, such as measures to reduce energy bills. These are measures that we have not been waiting for for budgetary control, because of course they were very urgent. These are typically measures that would be taken during budgetary control. These measures are very justified and it was good to take them so early so that they could be an important shock absorber. Budgetary control work is now under way. In the coming weeks, we will follow closely the evolution of inflation and the impact of inflation on public finances, purchasing power, competitiveness and the functioning of certain industries. We will take action on the basis of the findings we have at that time. Today, some things are very clear, while others are still very diffuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u42	The fact that you will follow the impact of very close is reassuring, but not really spectacular. It would be more spectacular if you said that you did not succeed and that you would see what it would be like.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u43	I'm expecting a flaming communiqué from...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u44	So you're following it. That's good. You say that it will be examined in October to what extent it has been complied with. New measures have also been taken. You say they are justified, and I will certainly not contradict that. However, they are all measures that are on the expenditure side, because it is about the additional spending of money by the public authorities. I do not think that many other measures have yet been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u45	It's mostly about giving back more revenue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u46	It is just how we look at it, but let us say that its effect is not that kind of thing to save the budget. I think there are indeed many uncertainties, as you rightly said, but there are not so many uncertainties that there will be no need to take measures that will sound less sympathetic. We fear that this will deter us. Of course, you are making efforts for the energy bill and for the challenges of the Ukraine crisis, but pretending that all of this can be buried somewhere in the numbers cannot of course. No matter how pleasant we may be surprised over the next few weeks, you will face the challenge of answering that part as well. That will have to go beyond the announcement that you are following it closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u47	Mr Prime Minister, on the Consultation Committee of 11 February, I will not ask you any more pressing questions, but I will ask you about the exit strategy and the CST. If I am not misinformed, because it is very complicated, the CST is currently in cooperation agreements and in the barometer. In principle, they end on 30 June, unless they are renewed. If nothing happens, they end up. I've already asked you about that. There are people who think and think that this is and should be a permanent instrument, even to use outside corona, for example in flu conditions. Others, whom I have always suspected you belong to this category, will be happy with that CST by 30 June. Whether we should take action in the future, and which, we should leave that open. We cannot answer that now, but if we maintain that instrument and allow it to be automatically reactivated in future circumstances, then we lose some autonomy and grip, we as a Chamber, which I have always regretted, but also politics as a whole. Do you agree with me that on 30 June we must stop CST permanently and, in the event of any new circumstances, which hopefully will never occur, we must have the debate on what are the most proportionate methods at that time to deal with them?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u48	Mr De Roover, the CST has certainly proved its worth. At some point it was an instrument that allowed certain economic activities in our country to remain more prudently open. Was the CST something that offered 100 percent security? No, but no one has ever said that this would be the case. At some point it certainly had its usefulness, today it is no longer applicable because it is not included in code yellow in the barometer and therefore has not been taken over. As you rightly say, in order to use the CST longer than after 30 June, the cooperation agreement must be amended. Everyone must agree to amend that cooperation agreement. That is the principle of a cooperation agreement. I can imagine that, where appropriate, the various governments will base themselves on scientific advice which will indicate at that time whether we are still in a pandemic or not. I can't judge that. So we will base ourselves on scientific advice. Let me be clear, if there are no scientific opinions that indicate that an instrument such as the CST would be useful, the federal government will certainly not argue in favour of extending that cooperation agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u49	I would have liked to hear you say the word "trash can" again. You used that fine metaphor in plenary. A shredder would have been a nice word. So you are careful and refer to scientific advice that should be available by 30 June. So I note that your government will not be in favour of extending the cooperation agreement if there is no explicit scientific basis for its usefulness. Of course, it remains a difficult exercise, as hopefully we will not be in some kind of peak on 30 June. The summer months may give less cause for this. I therefore hope that on 30 June we will not take a decision on what might happen in the fourth quarter. I'd like to warn you about that. Let us then have that discussion in the autumn, if there were, without a doubt, a new outcry. So we must not move towards an automatism on which we will lose the grip.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u50	Mr President, Prime Minister, because of the invasion of Ukraine and the crisis it generates, the planned Royal Visit to the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) from 6 to 10 March has been postponed to a later date. This visit, at the invitation of President Félix Tshisekedi, should have taken place with you as well as with Foreign Minister Sophie Wilmès and the Minister for Development Cooperation Meryame Kitir. This was important because it was the first royal visit to the DRC since King Albert's visit for the 50th anniversary of Congo's independence in 2010. In June 2020, for the 60th anniversary of Congolese independence, King Philippe sent Mr. Tshisekedi a letter expressing his "deepest regret" for the "acts of violence" and the "sufferings" inflicted on the Congo of Leopold II, now the Belgian Congo. As you know, a special committee, of which I am the Vice-Chairman, is currently examining Belgium's role in the Congo, Rwanda and Burundi during the colonial period, and its consequences, which are still sometimes and very often relevant. Recently, the Belgian government, at the initiative of Secretary of State Thomas Dermine, also validated a legal framework on the possibility of returning works from the colonial period to the DRC. A decision of great importance in the context of the historical relations between Belgium and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, reflecting our country's desire to repair the DRC. In mid-February, the Congolese Prime Minister received a digitized inventory of the 84,000 Congolese ethnographic and organological objects held by the AfricaMuseum de Tervuren, which account for a total of 70 per cent of its collection. Another symbolic element is expected in the DRC; it is the return by the Belgian courts of a relic of the Congolese Prime Minister, Patrice Lumumba. Prime Minister, has the mission been cancelled in consultation with President Tshisekedi? Is the date of postponement already known? If so, what will be the program of this mission? Given the historic moment between our two countries and the important initiative taken by the Secretary of State, can you tell us whether he will also be part of the mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u51	Mr Lacroix, as you have said, because of the invasion of Ukraine and the crisis it has generated, it has been decided, in close consultation with President Tshisekedi, to postpone the visit of Their Majesties the King and Queen scheduled for early March. The new date is not yet fully frozen. In relation to the programme, it is difficult to decide, but I believe that the objectives of the visit are, of course, the same. As regards the statements to be made during the visit and the relationship between the work carried out in this committee, which is respected, there are many other elements that need to be taken into account, as these are not the only activities that take place in the context of this visit. Like you, I also think that under the leadership of the government and Secretary of State Dermine, important decisions have been taken on this restitution policy. At the international level, we are pursuing a policy that is really interesting. If Secretary of State Dermine wanted to be part of the Belgian delegation during the visit, I really do not see any reason why he cannot accompany us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u52	Prime Minister, I would like to thank you because, indeed, you have made a good impression on the ground. The role of government is the role of government, and the role of Parliament is the role of Parliament. Parliament has set up a special committee on the colonial past, and you do not want to hinder the functioning and work of this committee. It will take months to reach conclusions and recommendations, which do not concern only the Democratic Republic of the Congo, since they also concern Burundi and Rwanda. On the other hand, the government – along with Thomas Dermine – has advanced on one of the aspects that are also dealt with in this commission, namely the aspect of the restitution of works of art. I therefore note with interest your position, because the restitution of works of art is not only symbolic, it is a work that strengthens and consolidates bilateral relations between the two countries, within the framework of mutual respect. I take note that if the Secretary of State is willing to accompany you and their Majesties, he will be welcome – but he does not need me to ask for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u53	Madam President, Prime Minister, I do not have to tell you that the communication of party presidents is sometimes at odds with government policy or with a particular action. That is perhaps also the role of a party chairman. It becomes more striking and fairly unpublished when ministers of a particular political colour write an opinion document that they sign as ministers. In the remarkable paper of opinion in De Tijd of 11 March, signed by the ministers of Vooruit and the PS, they ask for the Stability Pact to be abandoned. The text did not express any great concern about budgetary discipline. Previously, Secretary of State Dermine also advocated a European investment of 5,000 billion to achieve the energy transition. It all sounds nice, but I do have some questions about that. What's your opinion on that piece of opinion? Do ministers formulate the government's position in this regard? That's unclear. The authors have signed the document of opinion as a minister, so how should public opinion interpret it? It seems like a government position, because otherwise they would have to write under the piece 'in their own name'. The communication is very confusing, unless you confirm that they have communicated a government position. In the other case, did you talk to them about that very unusual demarche? What is your position on budgetary orthodoxy within the EU framework and the idea expressed by your colleagues in that document?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u54	The document of opinion you are referring to has been signed by ministers from different governments, within the same political family, and includes a position on European budgetary policy. In view of the way in which the document of opinion has been signed, with a reference to the political parties, this is clearly not a government position. Government positions are determined at the government table, not in newspaper columns or elsewhere. I therefore have no specific position to take on this opinion; what is important to me is what is laid down in the coalition agreement. It states that the government within Europe is striving to strike a good balance between a correct European fiscal approach, allowing an investment agenda, and a solution to the current macroeconomic imbalances. A full monetary and financial union is the aim. If you ask me what my party's position on this issue is, the answer is identical: what matters is the coalition agreement and what the government decides. I would like to refer to what was included in the Versailles Declaration. There the Heads of State or Government stated that the total investment needs and the new geopolitical situation should be taken into account. Equally essential is the commitment to a sound fiscal policy, which ensures the sustainability of each Member State's debt, including by stimulating investment that is growth-enhancing and essential for the green and digital transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u55	They did refer to their political affiliation, but also to their function as minister. That's very unusual, isn't it? I also think that you are getting rid of it quite easily, although I understand it: it was an embarrassing piece of opinion. I repeat: when parliamentarians or party chairmen take part, so be it. If ministers go a little further than their duties in an interview, I can get into that too. However, this is an active opposition to your socialist excellence, which I should like to make clear from your words, which is not in line with the coalition agreement. Well, then, of course, there's a problem. There is therefore a problem with public opinion. I believe that this is also causing confusion for public opinion. The idea that the socialist ministers alone believe that they should turn to public opinion in a group is already significant. You have also used the word 'investment' in your reply. This is of course the crux: when is an investment an investment? I have the impression that some coalition partners take that word rather easily, even in the case of consumer spending. This gives the impression that these investments will be recouped and that it is a sensible matter. You know that the 3% that we are allowed to go into in the red in the budget is just meant to make investments outside the budget, with the idea of earning them back. But if that word, as is the case here, is subject to inflation, we risk going a dangerous path there. You have not addressed them, I think, but I would ask you to do so in the future. It doesn't give the impression that you run a consistent club.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u56	Mr De Roover, you have the floor for your question No 55026035C on the exponential rise in energy prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u57	I am not going to ask that question, Madam President. We have already dealt with this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u58	Prime Minister, at the beginning of this year, on behalf of cybersecurity company Sophos, iVOX carried out a market survey on 250 Belgian companies that are representative of sector and size. This resulted in a number of remarkable results. As many as 59 percent of these companies indicate that they do not have a cybercrime plan. That is, to say the least, worrying. Today technology plays a crucial role in business activity. Without such a cybercrime plan, business activity will be seriously interrupted and it will take longer to be operational when something occurs. Furthermore, the study shows that 38% of the CEOs of smaller companies themselves are responsible for coordination during a cyber attack, while according to Sophos, a cyber attack has to be dealt with by a very large team. When a cyber attack occurs, it is striking that all different organisations are contacted. First of all, the local police with 26 %, then the CCB with 20 % and then their own security partner with 19 %. These organizations are most common in the list. At the same time, 24% of companies remain in business because they do not know where to deal with their problems. The most hallucinating figure found in the investigation shows the willingness of 39 percent of companies to pay ransom in the hope of getting back the stolen data, while that does not offer them any guarantees of success at all. Do you not think that these figures show that there is a need for a single central point of contact or basic platform where victims can go for both complaints and information? Do you have a plan of action to create a change of mind among companies to effectively develop a cybercrime plan and to change the mind of business leaders to pay pure ransom, perhaps to get back their stolen data? What role do you see for the CCB in this case? Can this take on a coordinating role?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u59	Mr Moyaers, the CCB is the first point of contact for companies and organisations if they want information on cybersecurity. Recording complaints is the competence of the police. The CCB plays a coordinating role, including in the prevention and awareness-raising of businesses, together with a whole range of partner services. To sensitise as many companies as possible, the CCB is currently working on new projects, such as a new version of the Safeonweb platform, which will be dedicated specifically to companies. That service will enable all companies wishing to do so to assess their level of cybersecurity themselves and to receive personalised reports with recommendations on how to eliminate their vulnerabilities. That is an interesting approach, because it is necessary for companies to go a step further than the standard questions that exist on this subject. Moreover, it is a collective responsibility, because if a company does not secure itself sufficiently in cyber security, it can also endanger other companies. As you point out, the CCB plays a central, coordinating role in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u60	Prime Minister, your answer is a little shorter than I had hoped. It is true that the CCB has a coordinating role, but the figures clearly show that companies go everywhere. That has to change because one out of four companies just doesn't do anything, one out of four goes to the police and one out of five goes to the CCB. So there is clearly something going on and so more needs to be done in terms of sensitisation. I notice this myself as mayor of a small town but with a fairly large police area. Our police area can still handle complaints about cybercrime, but for small areas that is a real disaster. It also eats at the time of police officers. There are federal and regional cybercrime units in place today, but we need to go further into this. This might be something more for the Home Secretary and extend them to local cybercrime units, which will make the police more armed and better able to respond to the needs that exist when there is a cybercrime.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u61	I have a threefold question, or three brief questions, building on the discussion of the national security strategy. During the oral part I noticed that you specifically said that you had not used the term 'fake news', but that you did not use disinformation, which is not the same in your opinion. However, in the note, in the national security strategy, the term 'fake news' is indeed mentioned, and so I am very interested to hear from you exactly what the difference is. I ask these and the following questions from the point of view of an evolution in society. I understand the caution with regard to new communication flows, let there be no misunderstanding about that. Certain tendencies in society are really not pleasant. My concern is the restraining role of the government in this. We once introduced the separation between church and state. Sometimes I get the impression that the two are merging again and that the state is acting like a church, like the new pastor. Mr Putin also opposes what he calls 'fake news'. That indicates how dangerous it is to give the government that can always be a government that we don't yet know. You are aware of my reluctance to do so, however much I understand that there may be problems. In the national security strategy, the term fake news is used, just like in the coalition agreement. So can you indicate what you explicitly meant with the difference between fake news and disinformation, and how you want to deal with it in a different way? Secondly, the fact that Mr Prévot is a gaullist has surprised me somewhat. I am less surprised that Mr Piedboeuf is a gaullist. They have given a quote explaining the difference between patriotism and nationalism. That's true in French too. But translating words purely leads to a problem. I said it in my question: I believe that in a French context we would be called despatriotes flamands, and not disnationalists flamands. However, the word is used in Flanders in a very different context than in the French-speaking context. Hence my surprise when the word 'nationalism' is used in an official document, the National Security Strategy, in a very pejorative sense, which does not fit, I believe, in the tradition of post-war Flemish nationalism as it has developed and within whatever framework I am politically involved. You may disagree with me on many points, but we share the great values of our society. I share it when I call myself Flemish nationalist. Hence I would like to ask: does this term fit in with the Dutch version? I have not read the French version, but does it fit in with the meaning we give in Flanders? The text now points with a stained finger to an important and decent flow in the Flemish political landscape. Finally, I come to my third question, concerning the word 'polarisation'. I understand that 'polarisation' sometimes means people who want to debate things to shreds. I hope it doesn't happen by force. Or bring people up against each other. I understand all that, but the opposite of polarization is, of course, all speaking out of one mouth. That is one pole, while the essence of a democracy is: du choc des idées jaillit la lumière. However, there is not much to shock when there is only one pool. Then who do you run into to create the shock? In this case too, I believe that we should be careful with the use of words, especially as a government, because that is what this is about. Citizens have much greater freedom. The government must be careful to create the impression that the existence of more poles in a democracy would be a problem. Purely linguistic is what happens here, with a different purpose, I hope. Shouldn't we be paying attention to that? We give the impression that cooperation is a great value, but the dialectic process has been the real driving force of the society in which we have now arrived. One-sidedness is what we try to do in Moscow, not in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u62	Mr De Roover, it is partly a semantic discussion, but it is an important one. I'll start with polarization. Let us look at what Van Dale says about polarization: accentuating contradictions. Polarizing the verb means forming contradictions and pushing them to the limit. In this sense, polarisation is not in fact a contradiction. In my view, contradiction is essential in a democracy. Polarisation, however, is to magnify contradictions with the aim of dividing a society and weakening a democracy. In this way, it can be understood why this is stated in a national security strategy. One of the objectives of a national security strategy is to keep our democracy alive. In the definition used here, polarization is just something that wants to weaken democracy. You will agree with me that the weakening of democracy is something we must pay attention to. Indeed, the national security strategy states that both patriotism and nationalism, as well as authoritarianism, can promote extreme views, possibly with violent consequences. If you look at the history books, you will realise that this has indeed been the case. I agree with you that nationalism and patriotism can of course be respectable ideologies, but they too, certainly not always, can be used to undermine the coherence and strength of democracy. In a democracy there must be absolutely every place for opposition, but if we use techniques to weaken that democracy and ultimately reduce that place for contradictions, we have something else to do with it. When one looks at Russia and Ukraine, both presidents are patriots and nationalists, but in one country it has led to cement in the resistance to a brutal aggressor and in the other to a complete erosion of democracy and the rule of law. That is why patriotism and nationalism can be a challenge for democracy. That's what that national security strategy says. Could be, but certainly not always. As far as fake news and disinformation are concerned, fake news is knowingly spreading non-correct information. In fact, the word lie can be used there. Fake news is a conscious lie and a conscious lie is obviously laughable. A lot of fake news was spread over corona. Those were lies. That corona was caused by 5G, that the vaccines do not help against COVID-19, that people die from the vaccine and not from the virus or that Bill Gates and the World Economic Forum Covid-19 would have unleashed on humanity. That's all fake news. Those are all lies. I think it is important that a government informs citizens of what is true and what is not true. I cannot be expected to say at a press conference of the Consultative Committee that I would not comment on the workability of vaccines because I should not be in a position to do so. I think it makes sense for a government to take a position on that. Disinformation, as the national security strategy suggests, goes beyond fake news in my view. Disinformation is about organized strategies for manipulating opinions through the mass distribution of fake news and the exploitation of algorithms specific to the current functioning and programming of social media. Organised disinformation can weaken and balance societies. In recent years, we have seen in a number of places in the world where that can lead. For example, in the United States, it cannot be denied that systems of organized disinformation can have a far-reaching impact on the functioning of democracy or the rule of law. In this respect, it is essential that a society protects itself from conscious attempts to undermine it. A democracy must also be resilient. It is important that a government demonstrates that an election process has been conducted fairly. It is important that a government proves that an election result has not been stolen. It's important that courts confirm that. To stand up for these basic principles is not at all the end of the democratic debate. That's just protecting the democratic debate. We must be careful that democracy does not actually cut off the branch on which it sits. Organised disinformation can have particularly far-reaching consequences. In the meantime, we have been extensively documented that organised disinformation has played a role in the US elections in 2016 and in the Brexirefementum. These cases are well documented, that they were often targeted disinformation campaigns where abroad played a certain role. That's disturbing. I share your concern. It is the role of a government to ensure that our democracy can remain alive and that our democracy is not deliberately distorted to ensure that there can be no more democracy. A government must be very transparent in this and can only do so if it gives it full transparency. This national security strategy has absolutely no intention of creating the Ministry of Information or of truth. This national security strategy also indicates that it is a very delicate balance in a very delicate subject. The argument that, because of the delicacy, the government should not play any role in relation to techniques that deliberately have as their strategy to destabilise and weaken our democracy is, in my view, wrong. I absolutely agree with you that it is not easy, but that does not prevent us from being concerned or taking action. I believe that sufficient transparency is essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic742x.u63	Prime Minister, in the first part of your reply you mentioned a semantic discussion, but words matter. Fortunately, we have the floor, but it is a sharp weapon when it is handled. I think you have just wrongly given the impression that nationalism and patriotism are placed on an equal footing in the text. Patriotism, as the text says, strengthens cohesion, while nationalism stimulates hatred for the outside world. It's actually gonna be a little bit of the good versus the bad. In a French-speaking tradition, I understand that, but I still think it's dangerous. You say that history has shown what that can lead to, but, with all due respect, that argument applies equally to liberalism and socialism. Unbridled economic freedom has caused unpleasant things in Manchester. The Gulag Archipelago is also a form of socialism. I certainly do not want to point the finger at all socialist friends. However, I would like to point out that, in extreme forms, many principles can evolve into a totally undesirable direction. I think that the way in which the term nationalism is used in the document is absolutely inappropriate. I would urge that this should not be used in subsequent versions. As far as the last part of your reply is concerned, I do not think we are so far apart. I do see it as my role to knock on that nail, if only to ensure that we keep an eye on the balance. After all, there is always the difference between fighting manifest lies and fighting uncomfortable views. That difference isn't always black and white. That line can't always be drawn. This means that an overly voluntaristic government can really get out of the way in this area. That's not what you want. That's certainly not what I want either. However, that is a difficult exercise. In 2016 I tried somewhere at an Italian swimming pool to launch a debate on this issue in response to the attacks. I can say that the attempt was successful. However, just through that debate, in which I did not take a position but asked questions, I found out how difficult it is to find the right balance. That is why I never took a legislative initiative at the time, because we will soon be in the throes of freedom of expression. Remember also the creation of a party of Islam. Do we want an Islamic society here? No, we don't. However, to what extent do we want to limit the range of people who want to set up a political party? At any rate, that led me not to ban the creation and leave them the room. However, there are also aspects that need to be taken into account. So this is a difficult exercise. You referred to the United States. Every downside has its advantage. Fortunately, the events at the Capitol have demonstrated the resilience of the institutions. The system didn't break its knees. The system has been challenged and has shown itself to be stronger than those who have gone against the system. In this sense, regardless of what a government should do in extreme circumstances, which is not nothing, we must believe in the intrinsic strength of the story we tell, rather than in the repressive part. That is why I will come back to the above regularly as certain terms appear in government documents.
