ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u1	With regard to the topical and urgent debate, groups which are not registered may, after hearing the speakers inscribed, either put a question or speak at the time of the replies. It's either one or the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u2	Minister, I have put questions to you on three different issues. A first topic concerns the airport's ombud service, which we have already asked questions about. You said at that time that the legal framework of the ombud service should be strengthened and that you would like to look at other ombud services. The Ombudsman has also made a number of proposals, saying that they do not take a stand themselves, but that they base themselves on the 15 million complaints they have received. Minister, do you know the document containing the proposals? What are you going to do with that in concrete terms? Where do you stand today with strengthening the legal framework for the ombuds service? How do you intend to do that? The second theme is about the Envisa study. It is clear that this study has a very large impact on the Flemish Edge, if you work on it. Have you already consulted the Flemish Region on this? In this study I also read a number of things that have not been studied at all, despite the fact that they are referred to. There are only scenarios to ensure that aircraft can be transferred from the Brussels Region to the Flemish Region. However, they also put forward many other conclusions. In what way do you deal with that? Are there any scenarios that should not be investigated? Then why is that the case? We all know that this study comes from the court ruling. A number of cases had to be investigated. We get the impression that this mission was not entirely followed as it should have been. Finally, the coalition agreement provides for a solution to Zaventem's noise pollution. That's about all that's in the government agreement about the airport. For example, it does not say that it is the second economic engine of this country. The question now is how you see it today. How far along are you? What steps have been taken and will you take? What is your timeline and how will you report to Parliament on this? So they're actually three different themes, but they all come together. What policy will you pursue in relation to the airport and how will all the regions be adequately addressed? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for making time available for this important dossier. I have submitted two questions on two linked issues: the environmental impact study, i.e. the Envisa report, and the low noise devices at Brussels Airport. Envisa's report was finalised on 30 May. It is now available on the website of the FPS Mobility. It is a good study in which a number of scenarios are examined and put forward. However, they were all studied separately. Why was no impact analysis of a combination of measures carried out? These can have far-reaching consequences. As Mr Wollants said, the airport is the second economic gate of this country, after the port of Antwerp. There are 60,000 direct and indirect jobs. So it creates a lot of employment and prosperity in Flemish Brabant and even beyond. Many people from the Brussels-Capital Region are also employed. The study clearly indicates that no account is taken of the socio-economic effects and effects on employment of the solutions put forward. This while several scenarios deal with heavy operating restrictions. However, an operating restriction would be directly proportional to a reduction in the number of jobs. My question is therefore whether an economic impact study will be carried out for the different scenarios of the environmental impact report. Can such an additional study also indicate what the impact on employment will be? Thirdly, EU legislation on a balanced approach to the nuisance of air operations is based on four pillars which are not equivalent: first, a reduction in noise at source should be examined, then measures in the field of spatial planning, then operational noise control procedures and, finally, any operational limitation. Are you aware that the fourth pillar, i.e. operating restrictions, can only be applied once the three previous pillars have been fully examined? What is your interpretation of EU legislation on this matter? What is the state of play with regard to the development of the flight law? I have also tabled a second question on low-noise devices. I've already questioned you twice about DHL AeroLogic's 777 Freighters operating at Brussels Airport. DHL and AeroLogic already bought 20 such devices and eight more have been ordered. Of these 20 aircraft, eight are allowed to land at Brussels Airport today. You've confirmed that. The 12 other planes are not allowed to land here. However, the growth of the cargo department requires all aircraft to be operated by DHL and I know from DHL that preferably with all that noise poorer Boeing 777 Freighters would come to Brussels Airport. There is still a lack of clarity about the 12 others, hence some questions. What are the instructions given by DGLV regarding the 777 Freighters already operating at Brussels Airport? Are those instructions unchanged and are they still allowed to stay? Do you believe that companies investing in sustainable solutions, in this case DHL, should be supported and that the 12 other 777 Freighters should be able to land?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u4	Mr President, Minister, I will refer to my written question and keep my speaking time for the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I will therefore have to simply read the opinions of Mrs Reuter, MM. Flahaut, Dallemagne and De Smet on this issue in the press. Let me take this as a pity! Today there is a topical debate on an important subject, I am ready to answer their questions. In fact, my answer has been prepared to answer all the questions asked. I see that when it comes to debate and trying to find solutions, it's "courage, let's run!", But when it comes to making exits in the press, we sometimes go to sulfate. Sorry, Mr. De Smet, you can sign up for the reply. However, on this issue, I am working methodically. You can see it, it's a complex case and I'm trying to do things in the right order. To be insulted on social networks about this issue, to be accused free of charge by parliamentarians of working badly, of doing nothing, of not being present in committee is a problem for me. I have no doubt that they will have the opportunity to read the report. I thank all of you for asking me about this complex and delicate issue of the Brussels overflight linked to the airport, economic activity, the Brussels-National airport and the resulting nuisances. This is a particularly complex and delicate political, urban and judicial legacy, for which none of my predecessors has been able to find a satisfactory answer and in which the various stakeholders have often conflicting interests or, at the very least, approaches that may be contradictory or, at least, somewhat aligned. This is obviously not a reason, but on the contrary, because I like the complicated things, to remain with one another and not to seek at least partial solutions to improve the daily lives of families flying over. I have been working on this since I took office in November 2020. That is why I took the initiative to bring together all the different actors involved in a consultation platform led by an external and independent moderator. This consultation platform brings together the various local and civil society organisations, local authorities from the Brussels Region and Flemish and Walloon Brabant, socio-economic actors such as trade unions and employers' organisations, as well as the operational actors involved in the noise and activities of the airport, such as skeyes, the FOD Mobility, Brussels Airport Company or the airline. As I said in October last year, the platform was also set up to implement the binding ruling of the chairman of the Dutch-speaking court of first instance of 30 May 2018 in the case between the Belgian state and the municipalities of Grimbergen, Machelen, Meise, Wemmel and Vilvoorde. This judgment states that any fundamental change in the management of the air pollution caused by the activities of the Brussels-National airport must be preceded by such general States with a view to concluding, if possible, a pact on the Brussels-National airport and its future. This is therefore a precondition, if not sufficient, for the emergence of new decisions in this case. The various members of the platform, including the Brussels national airport ombudsdienst, have been invited to propose solutions that can be discussed within the platform. In parallel, a working group of technical and operational experts from DGLV, skeyes, Belgian airlines and Brussels Airport has been meeting regularly since June 2021 to propose short, medium and long-term solutions for air traffic management and airspace use. The Group will also support the consultation platform and examine the technical and operational feasibility of the proposed solutions in an objective and transparent manner. This technical group is looking at solutions such as the "faster, higher" take-off or "longer" landing, which could alleviate the noise burden on all the populations flying over, because my objective is to find solutions that reduce the burden on each of the people concerned. A specific grant was granted to Skyes in the amount of EUR 4.75 million for my initiative to enable Skyes and the airport to take various environmental initiatives in the air sector, in particular in support of this technical group, with a view to implementing less noisy, more efficient and more environmentally friendly airport approach techniques, in particular the "longer" I have just mentioned. My intention is to include these dimensions structurally in Skyes' future management contract, which will be negotiated in the coming months. Mr Flahaut, you're not here, but I'm still speaking to you. The platform has met four times since the beginning of the legislature, which has not been a small logistical matter because it is a meeting which, theoretically, must bring together a hundred people. This was not easy either at the health level. You know, like me, that this type of public meeting was, for almost a year, particularly complex, if not literally impossible for much of this legislature, given the pandemic. The purpose of the meeting was to present the status of the situation and that each of the members of the platform start the exercise with the same information. It was important and necessary for all members to be informed of the history, context and framework within which solutions could be found as a result of the air activity around Brussels airport on the overlying populations. It was also an opportunity for each participant to express their positions and proposals. The second meeting provided an opportunity to present the international and European rules to be applied in the management of this type of case and the way it is articulated in the Belgian institutional context. To this end, we invited representatives of the French Directorate-General for Civil Aviation and the European Commission. At the third meeting, we responded to the many questions raised at the previous sessions, with the support of a representative of the European Commission specialising in environmental matters, and we decided to compile the proposals of the parties in accordance with the four pillars of the balanced approach which are required by regulation for Belgium and any other country, moreover. This balanced approach to aircraft noise management is a text developed by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) which defines the context, methods and tools that allow airports to continue their development in an integrated manner with their environment. Directive 2006/93EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EU) No 598/2014 state in particular that airports must apply this approach on a case-by-case basis, in particular Brussels-National Airport. Members also had the opportunity to clarify their proposals at the meeting. The fourth meeting of the platform took place on 20 June and was dedicated to the presentation of the impact study carried out by the Envisa study office. As with the previous three meetings, Mrs Reuter – you are not present – you were invited but you were not there. I also say this for Mr Flahaut, also absent today, who explained that he had to fight for the mayors of the Walloon Brabant to be invited. We didn't have to wait until Mr Flahaut decided to invite all the interested parties. It's breaking an open door to pretend something else! New meetings of the platform are already scheduled for September and the second half of 2022. I stress that this is the first time such a dialogue has been organised in such a systematic way. I also stress the importance of the participation of all the invited representatives – if you know some of them, do not hesitate to remind them – because it is too easy to complain afterwards about the absence of dialogue or of a solution. For information and reminder, the origin of the study carried out by Envisa is also judicial. The completion of such a study was originally decided following judgements on 19 July 2017 and 1 February 2019. A first version of the Act was therefore issued under the previous legislature. On 9 December 2020, just after I took office, the Chamber of First Instance of the French-speaking Court of First Instance found that the impact study "in its two parts, objectivation and alternative measures, carried out by Envisa is incomplete and, therefore, does not currently respond to what we had decided in the judgments of 19 July 2017 and 1 February 2019". The same court therefore ordered the Belgian State to request the Envisa study office to complete the study by 1 June 2022, in particular an analysis of different scenarios defended by the different parties involved, in particular the Flemish or Brussels regions and the communes. The Flemish Region has also sent its proposal and that proposal has been analysed, Mr Wollants. In accordance with the verdict and the time limit to which we were bound, the impact study was indeed done, because that was the work of my cabinet on 1 June by our lawyer communicated to the various legal parties involved in this case, including the Flemish Region. The study has now been published in two languages on the website of the FPS Mobility. I invite everyone to consult them: it is very interesting, although perhaps some technical reading. Beyond its publication, the ENVISA study was therefore presented to the participants of the consultation platform at the meeting on 20 June. Unless I monopolize the time spent at our meeting – Mr.President would not accept it – it is difficult for me to provide you with a comprehensive summary, but you will still allow me to identify different elements of it. In his study, ENVISA stressed the need for a comprehensive and concerted vision of the Brussels overflight. That is what I have been trying to develop since the beginning of the legislature, while accepting that no miracle solution exists. Otherwise, I have no doubt that my brilliant predecessors would have found and applied it. ENVISA therefore sets out several scenarios which have been drawn up on the basis of the proposals submitted by the parties to the judgement – including, therefore, the Flemish Region. Each scenario details, among other things, its geographical impact and its effects on the population. Many proposals show that reductions in noise pollution are possible in the short and long term. However, ENVISA insists on the impossibility of finding a solution in the absence of political consensus as to the objective to be achieved. ENVISA stresses that only basic principles agreed by all will lead to the establishment of durable solutions. This is precisely one of the objectives of the consultation platform. In addition to this and the technical group, I have also organized some 10 meetings of a working group composed of representatives of the three regional governments, in order to identify these common principles. The other goal was to hear everyone's expectations in order to provide a basis for work that would suit the entire political world. At this stage, despite our efforts, this work has not yet been able to succeed, even though the impression had been given at the meetings that consensus was possible. The road is obviously long before the mistrust between the partners can give way to sufficient trust and cooperation between the federal state and the regions. However, I remain optimistic and hope that common sense will eventually prevail. Mr Dallemagne, Mrs Reuter, Mr Vandenput, ENVISA also addresses the issue of incentives for fleet renewal by airlines. It is well within my objectives to review the regulations relating to the quota count (QC) of aeroplanes. The principle of 3-6-9-12, proposed by the airport mediator, is a friendly arithmetic suite, but this kind character is not enough for us. It is indeed necessary that an amendment to the QC rules also follow a certain relevance and consistency with the objective of reducing the noise impact of aircraft, reserving priority to the most delicate moments of the day: morning and evening. This principle can be taken into account, but the final choice must be accompanied by a scientific, technical and operational analysis which demonstrates all the effects: both the advantages and the disadvantages. This is one of the aspects of the solution, to which I attach myself and work. Following the ENVISA study, the work carried out by the technical group, the proposals made by the consultation platform and the discussions with the representatives of the various regional governments, I am preparing a proposal for a road map for concrete action which will be presented to the Council of Ministers once it is ready. Then, if I get the necessary consensus to move forward, it will be implemented in the aftermath of the legislature. I am well aware that citizens are looking for quick solutions. They've been waiting for them for 30 years. I am sorry for them, but everyone has to admit that this is a complex and historically heavy case with pre-trial mandatory passages that have been or are being carried out, such as this ENVISA study and these general states, which are two judicial obligations arising from judicial decisions. To claim that this file could be settled in a simple two-step manner three movements is either to be wrong or to deceive the residents concerned. It is also disrespectful of those who, before me, have struck this obstacle and on this mined file. I decided to work systematically in concertation, step by step, step by step. Piece by piece, the different pieces of the puzzle are set up in order – it is my hope, my wish and my commitment of means – to find ways to alleviate as much as possible the affected populations whose daily difficulties and suffering I perceive. As I often say, in the absence of moving this airport, which is very close to dense habitat, there is no miracle solution in this case. There is a set of levers that we can operate to improve the situation. My intention is that one. I work systematically in the discretion necessary to be able to move forward on the file. That's the conclusion I made. I regret not being able to discuss this with more Members today, but they will read the parliamentary report. Already, I thank the services of the House for its realization.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u6	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. There is no doubt that it will be read and heard beyond these walls. The floor is now open to parliamentarians present.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for the answers, but I have not heard anything about the ombudsmen's service that I had asked questions about. I think you'd better come back to that. Furthermore, the scenarios proposed do not entirely correspond to the analysis that Envisa itself makes. That's a problem. For example, Envisa says that there is no point in talking about crowded areas, because the whole area around the airport is crowded. It also says that a good spread of the nuisance is the fairest way to deal with it. I don't see any scenarios for that either. The scenario I see is extending the runway to avoid Brussels at all costs. It's not exactly the same thing. I wonder how this should go further, because such studies do not help at all to reach an agreement or a situation in which everyone feels that they should be treated fairly. That is the big problem in this dossier. All kinds of studies are being made, but what is then done with them is completely different. A concentration model is being developed today, while the study says that a concentration model is a very bad thing. There will be fewer people flying over, but those who are already the worst affected will be hit even harder. That's what that study says. I have the impression you're not doing anything with that. That's where I'm gonna sit on my hunger. We shall put forward further detailed questions on this subject, in the hope that you will be able to respond to them and we will be able to debate them. Having heard your introduction, I also note that the violins within the government are apparently not yet fully tuned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u8	Minister, I also regret that people are barking on the sidelines or on the social media but remain absent here and now. I agree that must be frustrating for you. I fully endorse what my colleague has just said. My questions also revolve around the impact study, but I'm talking specifically about the Noordrand. Envisa states that the inhabitants of that northern edge are actually the least affected. However, I did not receive any answers to my questions. Will you follow the decisions of this impact study, which we believe will lead to further conflicts? Are you going to continue with that? How will the wishes of the people of the Noordrand be met? I don't feel like that's being listened to properly. In the meantime, eleven excellences have been passed to do something about that noise, and it has never worked. The situation isn't stagnant either, it's just getting worse. I invite you to walk around the Noordrand with me for half an hour on weekends. I do not mean around the airport, but in the region of Dilbeek and Groot-Bijgaarden. In the garden one has to stop talking there every so many minutes. It is also striking that the aircraft are making very strange manoeuvres and twisting themselves into the most difficult turns to avoid Brussels anyway. This phenomenon is more and more visible above the Noordrand. Not only are these manoeuvres dangerous and difficult to carry out, but they are also very noisy. I didn't get an answer on all these cases today. You say who is invited and that you are in favour of a dialogue, but first you need to know what you think about the way that impact study has been carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I fully support you where you talk about the people who are sending messages about their vision in the media, on Twitter and Facebook before listening to your answers here. I think that's below par. Better they'd have listened here and then communicated what they thought. Secondly, you are also right that this is a very complex dossier that has been dealt with by your predecessors for a very long time. In 2008-2009, we were almost there with the Schouppe plan, but that was completely knocked down by Minister of Mobility Wathelet in 2013, who on his own got everything mixed up, so we are now in this difficult situation. However, that is not your fault. I didn't really get an answer to my question about an additional study by Envisa or any other body called the FPS Economy perhaps to check the impact on the employment of any operating restriction. As Flemish-Brabander, I think the airport is very important for employment and prosperity. Any operating restriction will result in job losses. I'm asking you to take that with you. Another issue is European regulation on the balanced approach. This study clearly shows that within the first three pillars, a number of actions can already be taken to reduce noise and environmental pressure from the airport. I insist that this study focuses too much on exploitation limitation and that few solutions are provided within the other three pillars. As far as DHL AeroLogic's Boeing 777 Freighters are concerned, they have 20, eight of which are allowed to land and twelve are not. That's why DHL comes here with other devices. They hire Boeing 747 cargo planes from Kalitta, which land and take off here. Such a device makes much more noise than the new Boeing 777, which also emits 18% less CO2. A 777 DHL emits 18 % less CO2 than a Boeing 747 from Kalitta. That doesn't make any sense. This means that more polluting devices are being used here, while there are solutions for using more sustainable devices. I have heard in your reply that you are prepared to revise this. When we focus on sustainability, it also seems to me that it is your duty as Minister to bring in less noisy and less CO2 emitting devices and to keep the polluting away. Brussels Airport Company has taken many initiatives to make all their ground operations CO2-neutral by 2030. It will blend biofuels, for example. We should encourage and congratulate BAC on what it's doing there. At no regional airport is this happening today, neither in Belgium nor in Europe. They are trendsetter in Europe to do so. We need to get rid of the short-range flights. That was also one of the reasons for implementing the flight tax. I believe that very strongly too. All distances less than 500 kilometers do better by a different way than by air, so by train. It would be a good signal if you really put your shoulders under the project of a HST connection at the airport. That has happened in the past four years. It takes time to set that up, but there really is a need for a HST connection at Brussels Airport, so that the polluting short-haul flights can get out. I'll have a question about that later or next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u10	Mr President, I ask you and the minister to apologize for the delay. That is what happens when you are only two Members and you have to be in three or four committees at a time. I am surprised, like you, by the small number of parliamentarians present, which obviously distorted the timing. In short, I have heard your answer, and I thank you, Minister. Minister, you are telling us that this is the first time such a dialogue exists. That's true, and we can credit you so far. But this does not exempt us from reaching the solution stage. I'm a little frustrated by your answer. This has been said by others: there are still proposals for solutions in the study you have cited. I quote from the ENVISA study: "The most efficient of the existing solutions, both in terms of health for a maximum of residents and economic viability for the airport, is to extend runway 25L by 900 metres and concentrate departures under certain noise standards conditions, with a left turn from 700 feet; 50 to 100% of departures would start from this extended runway." Although you must be very diplomatic at this stage, of course, I did not feel that I received your opinion on this scenario and on the scenario that could be preferred by the government, or on the time frame for implementing these recommendations. We need a global vision. You are acting as if it were possible to have a general consensus on this matter. I don't feel like it's possible. I think we have to face things. It is a problem that is both urban, environmental and community. We have an airport very close to a big city. It's nobody's fault here, but that's how it is. Continuously, by definition, it will be necessary to fly over densely populated areas belonging to several different regions. If a consensus was possible, we would know. All we can do is to have the courage to make decisions that are based on scientific basis, after consultation with the residents, but which ultimately only take into account the well-being of the population, the noise standards and the danger of flying over the densely populated areas. Even though I agree that there is also a fairly substantial trollage on these questions on the Internet, which is sometimes painful for everyone, and that we must not let ourselves be impressed, I think that the real pain of the residents is generally expressed rather in silence. It is frankly experienced by all those, like me who live in Evere, are awakened at night by small, medium or large carriers. I think we need to move on. I think you have the means to make it happen. I sincerely hope so, but I believe that you have an obligation of result and not just of means.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u11	Mr. Secretary, I lived in Erps-Kwerps until I was 18 years old. Despite the fact that I no longer live in Flemish Brabant, I do know what this is about. If we have listened carefully to the debate today, we have often heard the feeling of the word. However, the dossier is so complex that it deserves objectivity. I hear you're doing two things. Firstly, you will launch the platform for dialogue. Secondly, the technical working group must examine certain solutions in the light of objectivity. I think that is very important and that we need to look at what is now our national vision of the organisation of our aviation. I am also counting on you to take steps forward on sustainability. I also tabled a motion for a resolution here in committee a few weeks ago, and this will please you, Mr Vandenput, to replace the plane with the train for short distances. This proposal now lies with the various stakeholders to seek advice. In short, I believe that further steps can be taken, both in Parliament and by the Minister in his approach to the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u12	I conclude this topical and urgent debate and propose that you proceed to the next point. I have shown flexibility in speaking time. I will now ask everyone to be self-disciplined in this regard. Indeed, the aim is to deal with as many issues as possible today and not to refer certain topical issues to the Greek calendars.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u13	Mr President, to respond to your call, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u14	Mrs Buyst, I have received the following reply from SNCB. All transfers between trains from 4 to 20 minutes shall be considered as a connection. For certain connections, waiting times are also scheduled. The length of the waiting period depends on the number of customers making the switch and is therefore determined in consultation with SNCB's employees on the ground. After all, they have a better view of the number of customers that have to switch. SNCB has been using this method for years. Withdrawal periods shall be evaluated annually and adjusted as necessary. The communication between train escorts, staff on the platform and staff responsible for real-time train follow-up activates the waiting time. Communication is becoming more and more digital. SNCB points out the importance of avoiding a snowball effect, when, for example, a larger group of passengers is kept waiting for a smaller group of passengers with delays. As a result, only more passengers at the next node are faced with delays. The more opportunities are offered, the greater the risk to the robustness of the timetable and the less attractive the train can become for the traveller who wants to use fast and direct connections. The connections between train and bus are introduced into the Aribus programme, in which the various public transport companies can introduce the theoretical waiting times between train and bus. As regards cooperation with other partners in this area, SNCB shares its timetable plans for each transport plan up to one year in advance with other public transport companies. During the preparations for the new transport plan, SNCB also meets with other public transport companies and the regions of our country. SNCB meets regional partners regularly, either at specific technical meetings or in more general fora, such as the transport regions in Flanders and the basins de mobilité in Wallonia. In 2021, almost 90% of planned connections between trains were successful. Of course, SNCB also receives complaints about missing connections. Compared to the 253 million domestic passengers transported by SNCB in 2019, the customer service received 1,300 complaints about missed connections. SNCB analyses the weakest links on a monthly basis and seeks solutions. Finally, I come to your question about the introduction of the cadancing train model. SNCB has been drawing up its timetables since 1984 according to the principle of cadence and symmetry. In doing so, SNCB's cadenced transport plans ensure a clear and recognizable train offer for our train passengers. In accordance with the government agreement, the FPS Mobility, together with Infrabel, SNCB and the other actors, will carry out a study on the technical and economic feasibility of an integrated hub model, as it exists in Switzerland. That's very important to me. SNCB hopes that the study can start very soon. She will provide her technical expertise for the study, which I am pleased about. The purpose of a cadancing train model is also part of the Vision 2040, which was decided by the government a few weeks ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u15	Mr Minister, my question was indeed prompted by the railway plan adopted in Vision 2040 to see how an integrated hub model might be more able to follow the traveler's rhythm. For a switch to an integrated node model, where not only more trains are connected, but also other public transport modes, the timetable must be reliable. It is important that, in the years we have been working towards such an integrated hub model, we already identify the bottlenecks and offer solutions to them. 1,300 complaints on 253 million journeys is certainly a good result. Above all, I hope that the complaints will show us how we can guarantee connections and more follow the rhythm of the travellers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u16	Mrs Fonck is not present to ask her question No 55027262C.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u17	Minister, this subject has not been discussed very often in this committee. Sixty animals were hit by a train last year. Infrabel communicated that figure himself to encourage livestock farmers and residents with pets to work on shielding meadows and keeping dogs on the leash. Natural point saw that wider and so the theme came back to Infrabel like a boomerang. Infrabel doesn't really have an active escape approach to date. However, our dense rail network causes enormous restrictions on the freedom of movement of animals. Nature is not very omnipresent in the busy Belgium and is also hugely fragmented by roads, waterways and railways. Escape projects are therefore crucial so that our animals can move around safely. Our regions are working on the roads and waterways they manage, but there is no such programme for the railways. I questioned you about this last year. You then confirmed the need to better coordinate the train and the surrounding area. You indicated that additional resources are needed to enable Infrabel to carry out escape projects. Mr Minister, will you include the objective of achieving the removal of the railways in the Infrabel performance contract? Do you support the question by Natuurpunt to draw up an action plan for escape? Will you give the order to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u18	Mrs Buyst, through her environmental policy plan, Infrabel wants to give priority to the protection of biodiversity. That's very important to you, but it's also important to me. The infrastructure manager wants to create an ecological infrastructure network by protecting and promoting fauna and flora along the tracks, including through the ecological management of the river basins. Measures to combat ecological evisceration are also envisaged. These objectives are also included in the text of the performance contract, on which we have been able to discuss in greater detail in recent weeks. Infrabel is now taking various measures against ecological de-snapping along the railways. For example, ecoducts and tunnels were integrated during renewal works where this is technically and financially feasible. An animal-friendly fence is also being considered. Infrabel has also consulted with the Department of Environment in Flanders on the Flemish action plan against ecological extinction. In addition, the infrastructure manager shall carry out an ecological study to identify, across the entire rail network, locations where measures are appropriate for the ecological management of the beers and to encourage the corridor function for animals. It goes without saying that I will encourage all these measures in the interest of our biodiversity, in which our public enterprises have an exemplary role to play.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u19	Thank you for your reply, Minister. There is quite a bit of nature in our country, but it is very fragmented. The challenge will initially be to reconnect those pieces of nature, not least to give the animals living in the wild the space they need. I am pleased that biodiversity is one of your core themes and that you want to focus on ecological management of the river basins. In my opinion, this has been on the radar for a long time, and Infrabel has already made a great deal of efforts in this regard. As far as the policy of escape is concerned, I must say that I do not think this was so high on the agenda. I am therefore pleased to hear that you have this included in Infrabel's performance contract, so that this becomes a priority for our railway company.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u20	Minister, we used to work together in the Finance Committee and I am glad that I am now able to ask you a question in your capacity as Minister. You've been for a while, of course, but it's the first time I've had that chance. The FPS Mobility and the city of Kortrijk did not have the proper permission to search for number plates in the Crossroads bench of the vehicles. This is a recent decision by the Data Protection Authority's Dispute Chamber, following a complaint about a parking fine by a resident of Kortrijk. I also questioned Minister Verlinden of the Interior about this, but she referred me to the Department of Mobility. Have you taken note of the decision of the GBA? How do you respond to this decision? Do you know if the FPS Mobility has now entered into dialogue with the fined resident? Do you know if there are any other cities, municipalities and agencies that do not have proper authorization? If yes, please list the cities, municipalities and authorities concerned. The GBA's Dispute Chamber decided to order the FPS Mobility and the City of Kortrijk to bring data processing in line with the General Data Protection Regulation within two months. Is that what happened in the meantime? The decision is enforceable in stock and an ordinary appeal is not possible. However, an administrative appeal to the Marktenhof in Brussels is possible. The city of Kortrijk has meanwhile decided to appeal to the Marktenhof, but that does not suspend the contested decision. What if a citizen takes this decision today to challenge his fine? Do you have a view on the impact of all fines issued with the illegally obtained data? Are these fines on the ramp? Does the FPS Mobility, like the city of Kortrijk, appeal against the decision of the GBA? If no, please provide a detailed explanation. The city of Kortrijk now received a first invoice of 59,000 euros for this procedure from the law firm Eubelius and the appeal is estimated at at least 42,000 euros, together accounting for over 100,000 euros in lawyers' fees. Which law firm allowed the FPS Mobility to defend itself? How much are the legal expenses incurred by the FPS Mobility so far? On 1 September 2020, the City of Kortrijk and the Directorate-General for Road Transport and Road Safety (DGWVVV) concluded a data communication agreement with the following provision: "This agreement shall be concluded for an indefinite period and shall enter into force on 1 January 2020.' It is therefore an agreement with retroactive effect. After examining other agreements between DGVVVV and cities or municipalities, it appeared that this method of working with retroactive effect was at first sight never used before. Can the DGVVV conclude such an agreement retroactively? A clear procedure should be followed to conclude agreements for the communication of data. Can the Directorate-General actually conclude an agreement retrospectively in the light of the procedure laid down? What was the purpose of the retroactive conclusion of this agreement with the city of Kortrijk? Who took the initiative to conclude this agreement retroactively? Were these the signatories to the city of Kortrijk or the signatories to the DGWVVVV? What arguments have been put forward in order to proceed retroactively?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u21	The Directorate-General for Road Transport and Road Safety (DGWVVV) of the FPS Mobility is a party to this case, which was conducted by the Disputes Chamber of the Data Protection Authority (GBA), just as the City of Kortrijk and the resident concerned were parties. The DGWVVV has decided not to appeal this decision to the Marktenhof as it considers that this data processing is up to date in accordance with the GDPR. This position was now explained in a detailed letter to the Disputes Court. Consequently, the DGWVV considers that no parking fees, fees and taxes are at risk. We are talking here for the sake of clarity about parking fees, fees and taxes, not parking tickets. There were also clear contacts between DGVVVV and those involved. However, the city of Kortrijk appealed to the Marktenhof. This forced the DGWVVV to intervene as a party in this ongoing procedure. However, in the meantime, the decision of the Disputes Court shall be enforceable in the case of stock. This merely means that the parties are already required to implement the decision during the appeal procedure. However, the city of Kortrijk has requested the Marktenhof to suspend the feasibility in stock during the appeal procedure. The DGVVVV is assisted by the law firm Timelex through this procedure. This was appointed after consultation of the competition. Without going into detail, it can be clarified that the fees charged to date are not in any way of the order of the amounts in your question, which would relate to the city of Kortrijk. However, it is important to point out that all cities and municipalities, like their concessionaires, can rely on general authorisations granted by the former sectoral committee for the federal government for the consultation of data on registered vehicles at the DGWVVVV. The cities and municipalities and their concessionaires should and should explicitly subscribe to this by means of an express declaration of commitment. Following the example of the DGVVV, however, it is customary to negotiate and conclude a protocol agreement with cities and municipalities and their concessionaires prior to the actual exchange of information. It then lays down the practical arrangements. In this case, there was confusion over the city of Kortrijk for a limited period of time, as a result of the decision of the city of Kortrijk to dissolve its autonomous municipal company AGB Parko from 1 January 2020 and to hijack its services under the same name in the services of the city itself. However, there was no problem in terms of content, since the city of Kortrijk, pursuant to Article 244, §3 of the Flemish Decree of 22 December 2017 on local government, had automatically taken over all the rights and obligations of AGB Parko. Moreover, this principle of legal succession has already been recognised in the advisory practice of the former Commission for the Protection of the Personal Life. The connection of the city of Kortrijk by means of the declaration of commitment to the debate No. 14/2016 and the corresponding protocol agreement with the Directorate-General concern essentially a purely formal recognition of this succession of AGB Parko by the City of Kortrijk, which since 1 January 2020 has been carrying out the same tasks as AGB Parko for the same purposes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I note that no appeal was made by the FPS Mobility, but by the city of Kortrijk. We already knew how to interrogate the city of Kortrijk. In the meantime, you have also sent a detailed letter to the Disputes Chamber. We will certainly request this in writing so that we can check it out. You also rightly refer to the fact that the decision is enforceable in the case of stocks. The city of Kortrijk has always denied that in response to my questions. However, to my explicit question about legal fees, you do not answer. You say that it is not about the same order of magnitude as in Kortrijk, namely EUR 100,000. You say that the amount is lower, but I would like to know exactly how much it is. I will also put a written question on this. With regard to the agreement with the Directorate-General for Road Transport and Road Safety, you acknowledge that this agreement is intended to be concluded prior to any exchange of information. That did not happen here for the sake of clarity. The GBA confirmed that the city of Kortrijk was not in order with the succession when they took over the rights of AGB Parko. The reason I am asking you about this is that this serious problem, namely the fact that Kortrijk is not well, arose when today's Justice Minister Vincent Van Quickenborne was still responsible as mayor. That agreement was subsequently concluded by the man who is today Minister of Justice. Understand who can. It is inconceivable that, in the city where the Justice Minister is mayor of the title, such a scandalous way is handled with the personal data of residents. So we will look at this file further. We'll get your letter and we'll find out more about your costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u23	Mr President, Mr Van den Bergh, as you know, my cabinet has been working for months on a long-term vision for rail in Belgium, in cooperation with the FPS Mobility and stakeholders, such as Infrabel, SNCB and wider civil society in general: passenger associations, representatives of trade unions, employers, non-governmental organisations, councils, etc. That long work resulted in a text with a railway vision for 2040. The aim is to make the Belgian railways more attractive in the long term, both from the point of view of passenger and freight transport. This Railway 2040 was approved by the Council of Ministers on Friday 6 May. The challenge is to achieve a significant expansion of the supply, in order to reach four trains per hour near the major cities and on the busiest axles, and two trains per hour on the rest of the rail network. We are doing this by gradually improving the way we operate our infrastructure. Since the Belgian network is relatively close, we must optimise its operation. We must be inspired by the increased use of the rail network in countries such as Switzerland, Austria and the Netherlands. In this context, the following guidelines are proposed: improved systematisation of train traffic; implementation testing of the integrated timetable model and the catalogue of lanes; focus on operational solutions over expensive infrastructure solutions; adaptation of infrastructure to the needs of operation; the timetable should be at the heart of decision-making and each investment should be selected on the basis of added value for the customer. These objectives, included in the Railway Vision, must be translated from a technical and a tactical point of view. To this end, I would like to carry out an economic and operational feasibility study of the timetable model integrated into the Belgian system, as provided for in the government agreement. This should make it possible to define, in good cooperation with the actors on the ground, a migration strategy to switch to a more performant exploitation model. With this in mind, we are studying a cadancing service model, in which trains run according to a regular schedule repeated every 15, 30 or 60 minutes, depending on the frequency of the service. In this way we can find out to what extent this model can be applied to the Belgian network, under what conditions and with what impact on the organisation of the rail network and for the traveller. Given the technical nature of the case and its importance, we hope that FPS Mobility will be able to count on support in the form of external technical assistance with experience in this area from an international point of view. Discussions are under way on the resources to be allocated to this research. As soon as the budget is released, a call for tenders shall be issued. My wish is for this process to proceed as quickly as possible so that we can achieve results and progress as quickly as possible. A first step in implementation is certainly the public service and performance contract that we are negotiating and that we discussed for the first time in this committee on 15 June. Contracts will be accompanied by specific budgetary elements, such as multi-annual investment plans, and will therefore be budgeted and submitted to the competent authority at the appropriate time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer, although a number of questions were not answered. I also understand that this cannot be done at a time when the research is being tendered or when the way in which it will be financed and organised is being sought. It is very important that this is done, and that relatively quickly, especially given the ambitions for rail traffic included in the 2040 Railways Vision, but also in the draft management agreement. They are clear ambitions, but their technical feasibility must also be reflected in this research. As far as the capacity of our network is concerned, we have a very dense network that can perhaps be used even more optimally without too much investment, but what exactly is needed to go to those 2, 4 or more trains per hour will have to be seen from that study. We look forward to that study and we hope that this can be achieved in the fairly short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u25	Nevertheless, despite the efforts of your predecessors and yours, Minister, this issue remains crucial for the future of the rail industry in Brussels and for the south of the country, and therefore for mobility as the work is completed in the north of the country: it is important to be able to achieve this project in its entirety before the end of this decade.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u26	Mr De Smet, you recalled this in the written version of your question: at the beginning of my term of office, I was able to relaunch the RER steering committee. The progress and planning of infrastructure works on lines 124 and 161 are monitored in detail by this steering committee. The Steering Committee is monitoring the progress of applications and work closely, allowing the Regions responsible for permits to be regularly informed of the status of this issue. The infrastructure work on Line 124 has indeed fallen behind, as some have decided not to play the game, in particular the municipality of Linkebeek, which opposed the permits requested. I regret that, of course, but discussions are continuing with its representatives. I hope I can find a solution. It is a commitment, in any case of means. I hope I can surprise you with results in this area. In absolute terms, what matters to me is that the work can continue. And they actually continue, as I was able to see during the last Easter holidays in Lille, or a little later in Nivelles, where a new multimodal station has just been inaugurated. Moreover, from this new accessible and multimodal train station in Nivelles, you can already find six trains per hour in the direction of Brussels, which is very appreciable for the inhabitants of the Walloon Brabant and the Canton of Nivelles. For it is essential that this issue, which we have been talking about for too long, can move forward, even with small touches, and that it has a concrete impact on the lives of citizens. Even if the RER is not finished, we have already reached 80% of the target in terms of frequencies and connections. With 80%, in concrete terms, today, when you live within a radius of 30 km around Brussels, you already have at least four trains per hour to come to or leave Brussels. Each year, fruit-taking is carried out, with the commissioning of new stop points, with the increase in the frequency of trains as part of the transport plans. We are moving towards this 100%, which will not be achieved during this legislature, but which will be approached thanks to the strenuous work carried out by my teams, the teams of Infrabel and the SNCB. In any case, you can count on my full determination, in this and in other cases, to take it as far as possible, as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u27	Minister, I have no doubt about your wish to move forward on this issue. One cannot, however, stagnate on an annoyance of the order of the permit to Linkebeek, which paralyzes an entire process. The dossier is progressing with small touches, of course, but this project has an impact on the whole mobility policy in and around Brussels, and it determines so many other things! It is important to move forward in this area, regardless of the level of power and beyond the Community or inter-communal disputes. Indeed, the case concerns a large number of people extending far beyond Brussels. It is therefore essential to be able to deliver this project before one of us reaches retirement age.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u28	Mrs. Van Camp is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u29	Minister, with nearly 40 million tonnes of goods transported each year, the Albert Canal is the main waterway in Flanders. In the past few years, container transport in particular has seen a huge rise. To continue this growth, De Vlaamse Waterweg invests in the further development of the Albert Canal by broadening the canal and increasing the bridges. The current limitation in passage height and width below the bridges constitutes a bottleneck for inland navigation on the Albert Canal. Since recently, the first excavators along the railway line between Herentals and Lier have also started to increase the railway bridge over the Albert Canal in Herentals. A new railway bridge is being built east of the existing bridge. What will be the impact of the works on the Herentals and Lier rail link? When will the railroad be interrupted? What alternative is provided for travellers? What measures are being taken to keep the impact as short as possible? Is any further necessary work to be carried out along the railway line during the interruption of the railway line? Since I submitted my question, some work has already been done; I remain curious about the further planning.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u30	Infrabel has given me the following information about the project in Herentals in response to your questions. Within the framework of masterplan Stationsenvironment Herentals, a solution was developed for the subtunnelling of the Olympiadenlaan and Poedereseeweg project. Both must be dealt with in succession. First, the crossroads of Powderleese have to be replaced. The Olympiadenlaan will act as a detour at that time. Afterwards, the crossing on the Olympiadenlaan can only be replaced. For the project there is a steering committee in which Infrabel, the city of Herentals and AWV are represented. AWV draws the file for the road Poedereeseweg, as it concerns a very large bottleneck on the regional road. A study to investigate possible scenarios is currently ongoing under the direction of AWV. Several steering committees have also been set up, but there is no final report or conclusion yet. Following the examination of alternatives and decisions on the chosen variant, the authorisation process should be completed. A design and implementation phase will then follow. At the present stage, it is difficult to make a statement on the exact timing. After all, the examination of variants has to be completed and there is also the procedural process. It will then be possible to clarify the calendar. Mrs Verhaert, the impact of the works on the construction of the new rail tracks and works of art to the east of the existing railway line on rail traffic is limited to several rail breaks during the weekends. The switch from the old routes to the new routes is scheduled for several consecutive weekends from mid-October to the end of November 2023, including a four-day railway break. As usual, a replacement bus service will always be provided throughout the period of the line interruptions. For the conversion from the old to the new routes, a phasering was developed with a single-track operation over a very limited distance, in particular at the entrance to the Herentals station, for about a month and a half. This will minimise the impact on passenger and freight traffic. Track interruptions will be limited in time. Conversion works are a very heavy burden on resources, which are preferably not subject to any additional burden on the success of the short-term changeovers. Maintenance tasks are carried out at the same time as possible, which is a good way of working.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u31	Minister, the inconvenience for the traveller is indeed limited. Replacement buses are certainly not optimal, but I understand, of course, that they are needed. I asked my question because Infrabel points out that it will not be able to carry out any work during the first two years due to the outside service, while we are fully engaged in an important subsidised project near the school and the station something for the railway bridge with the construction of an important road through our municipality, the municipality of Bouwel of the municipality of Gronzendonk with new, full cycle paths. I regret that answer. This is just another project in which we are very much encouraging transport for the load mile, and Infrabel has been the delaying factor for more than two years now. We often preach here that we want to go to a modal shift, in which we travel the load mile by bike. The municipality makes the necessary investments and has made a huge effort on the project over the past three years. Then we get that reaction to a meeting with Infrabel. I deeply regret that. I hope you will, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u32	I would like to refer to the written preparation of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u33	Mrs Verhaert, in response to your question, the FPS Mobility will inform me of the following. In accordance with Article 23 of the Road Code, a driving licence may only be issued "if the applicant has not expired from the right to direct' and, where appropriate, "has complied with the remedial measures imposed by the criminal court'. When processing licence applications, the municipality should verify that those conditions are met. In the vast majority of cases, she can rely on the data available from MACH, the file management application of the FPS Justice Department, in Mercury. However, there are situations where such data are incomplete. In addition, in cooperation with the FPS Justice, there is still a lot of work on the availability of data on recovery measures, theoretical and practical recovery examinations and medical and psychological recovery investigations. Nowadays, the FPS Mobility only asks the municipalities to include those cases that are not available in Mercury from MACH in the information sheet. It goes without saying that if the margin of error becomes minimal, we can in future completely abolish the paper notifications, and, by extension, keep an information sheet in the municipality. That is what the FPS Mobility is currently working on with the FPS Justice, to further reduce the administrative burden on the municipalities. I hope you'll be pleased as mayor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u34	Thank you, Minister. As mayor, I am indeed pleased with your answer. Hopefully we will make rapid progress in this respect, in order to reduce the administrative burden on our services.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u35	Minister, I have a personal question: after Thursday's plenary session and if it ends after 8:00 p.m. or 9:00 p.m., can I go home by train? I'm kidding... Like all Namibian and especially Luxembourgish commuters to Brussels, I welcomed your announcement of work to repair and improve the 161 and 162 lines between Brussels and Luxembourg. The budget allocated to it and the European funds obtained to speed up the modernisation of axis 3 are proof of your investment in this vast project and a guarantee, I hope, of speeding up the work. However, and probably in order to further accelerate these by night work on the rails, the evening hours between Brussels and the province of Luxembourg have been considerably reduced, so that the last train leaves at 8:38 p.m. from Brussels-Central to Marche en Famenne, or even at 7:38 p.m. if the traveller wishes to reach the south of the province. Neither the commuter nor the occasional traveller can, under these conditions, consider a late meeting, let alone a meal, before returning home. The effort is understandable over a limited period of time, but may, in the long run, discourage some users of the train in their journeys. Minister, can you take stock of the progress of work on Axis 3 and estimate their end date? Do you confirm that evening trains between Brussels and the province of Luxembourg have been abolished in order to increase night work time on the tracks, with a view to speeding up work? According to your information, is this working time at the beginning of the evening used wisely and allows for good progress in the work? Otherwise, would it be possible to reintroduce later trains on this axis in the evening? Finally, do you confirm that, at the end of the work, the evening hours will be reintroduced into the SNCB's offer on axis 3? At what time will the last train depart from Brussels to the south of the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u36	I thank you, Mr Vajda, because these questions have been asked regularly and there is a need for pedagogy on this subject. Besides, I have good news for you and it's the same line I use to go home, but I'm going down to Namur while you continue to the beautiful destinations in the south of our country. Indeed, the modernization of Axis 3 is an essential element of the federal government's policy under my leadership. Thus, of the EUR 250 million for rail released by the federal government under the 2030 transition plan, EUR 42 million is allocated for the further modernisation of rail between Brussels and Luxembourg. These additional resources are in addition to those already committed to Axis 3 under the Boost Plan, financed by a European budget. With these additional resources, the planned investment work will be accelerated to ensure that the upgraded rail link is deployed as quickly as possible. I do not wish to announce a date that would not be reliable, but know that I am making every effort to ensure that this is done as quickly as possible, bearing in mind that a project of such magnitude inevitably requires significant delays. In fact, if the trains are to be allowed to circulate, the work cannot be carried out simultaneously in different parts of the line. I assume that, no more than I did, you did not want this line to be permanently interrupted for a long period of time - as we have been able to do in other areas of the network. This line is too important at the international level to be interrupted, if only for 15 days or a month - a time limit which would, in any case, be insufficient to complete work of such magnitude. As part of the organisation of these construction sites on the Brussels-Ottignies and Namur-Arlon axes, Infrabel is indeed working on the principle of extended night cuts. Unfortunately, this method of carrying out work does not allow trains to travel on the tracks during the nights concerned, in both directions. It is a handicap for travellers who have to leave Brussels, as I do very regularly, just as you, as Members, cannot count on very late trains. However, this handicap is temporary and is justified by work on the line. However, and this is good news, since Infrabel will be completing work this summer for the 3 kV to 25 kV shift, some phases of night work will also be completed on this axis. As a result, the SNCB will be able to adapt its rail offer for the following trains from 5 September next - to the parliamentary re-entry. The ICR 2120, currently operating between Brussels-Midi (20:33) and Rochefort-Jemelle (22:27), will be extended with a stop at Libramont at 22:49, Marbehan at 23:09, Arlon at 23:22, until 23:50. The ICR 2121 running between Brussels-Midi (21:33) and Ciney (23:05), will be extended with a stop at Marloie at 23:21 towards Rochefort-Jemelle at 23:27 - let's be precise, this is important for the future of the province of Luxembourg. The ICR 2144, currently travelling from Luxembourg, with departure at 8:10 p.m., towards Marloie, arriving at 10:37 p.m., will be extended to Namur, arriving at 11:14 p.m. and intermediate stop at Ciney at 10:54 p.m. The ICR 2126 travelling from Ciney, departure at 05:02, towards Brussels-Midi, arriving at 06:29, will travel again from Rochefort-Jemelle at 04:39, with stop at Marloie at 04:44, for early lifts. In addition, train P 7672 Rochefort-Jemelle, at 0449 hours, to Libramont, at 0516 hours, with stop at Forrières, Grupont and Poix-Saint-Hubert, will operate again. This allows a connection to Libramont on the L 5855 towards Marbehan and Arlon. In fact, from 5 September onwards, all trains will operate again normally, with the exception of IC 2122, which starts from Brussels at 10:33 p.m. and will always be limited to Ciney at 00:05 p.m., while work continues. It will then be effectively returned to service. This is good news, I think, which will delight the daily commuters, either morning or late, of the beautiful province of Luxembourg, of which you are a part. You can see that the work is progressing well. I attach great importance to this issue, for which I, together with the government, have already released considerable amounts, and I intend to continue to do so. But we do not make omelettes without breaking eggs and, in order to circulate regularly on this line, you see, like me, that this work is extensive and that, every night, the workers of Infrabel and other companies are working hard, in sometimes difficult circumstances, to improve mobility and, at best, Brussels at two hours from Luxembourg by train.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u37	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Even if you are regularly asked questions on this subject, I do not regret having done so. Thank you for the good news in the short term. I will therefore be able to go on holiday this summer without any ulterior thinking, since you are announcing that, as of 5 September already, there will be major improvements in terms of timetables and correspondence. You know, Minister, how much I appreciate your work and that axis 3 Brussels-Luxembourg. I still do not regret this work, which is being carried out with a view to a clear improvement, despite the constraints which it causes. Minister, who likes to chastise well and I will continue to bother you with this line until it is accessible day and night, two to three times an hour, with a car bar, restaurant or cinema.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u38	Mr Minister, this question was put for the discussions a week ago, but I still want to ask them because a lot of things have not been clarified. What about the schedule and the course of the discussions? You promised the Members of Parliament that they would have a say in that management agreement. How do you see that? I asked earlier about the lyrics. Members of Parliament have still not received the management agreement, which I find to be punished. Is there going to be a public debate on this? If so, when? Did the social partners already have access to the texts? If so, what was their response? Is it still possible to modify those texts? I am thinking, for example, of the idea put forward by one of your coalition partners about free public transport. Is that gonna be in there? What should be in the new management agreement for you? I also asked a question earlier about the question of tariff autonomy. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u39	Minister, a week after the federal government approved the 2040 Railways, SNCB's Board of Directors agreed to the compromise text of the new management agreement to be concluded. Afterwards, the same thing happened to Infrabel. The 10-year agreement with SNCB should lead to an increase in the number of train journeys by 10% and an increase in the number of rail passengers by 30%. In addition, there would be an improvement in customer experience, an ambitious and realistic performance path and even a reduction in SNCB debt. However, the budgetary aspect of the plans is lacking. The Treasury Inspectorate was very critical of the Railways 2040 and pointed out that your plans would clash with budgetary constraints. Can you explain the budgetary impact of the Railways 2040? On what basis did the federal government approve the 2040 Railways without knowing the financial basis? I ask the same question for the two railway companies. On what basis have they approved the drafts of the management agreement without knowing the financial basis? By what time will the relevant Chambers Committee be in possession of the compromise texts approved by the Board of Directors of SNCB and Infrabel? Will you make the report of the Treasury Inspectorate available to the members of this committee? What do you think of the criticism of the Treasury Inspectorate?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u40	Minister, it's no surprise for anyone, having ambitions for rail to meet climate challenges at a cost. Making rail the backbone of Belgian mobility is not free. What is new is that we now know the price: 3.4 billion more for the next ten years according to SNCB and Infrabel. The exercise undertaken by the two public enterprises is remarkable: on the one hand, because it is common and offers overall coherence and, on the other hand, because it involves the responsibility of the companies. Of course, they ask no less, but they ask no more. Of course, the first ones who face their responsibilities are the political decision-makers. We now know what is expected of us. However, the industrial time of the rail sector is not that of the pace of political elections. Minister, what follow-up will you give to the presentation of the CEOs of Infrabel and SNCB? Will it have an impact as soon as the next budget is drawn up? How can we ensure continuous, stable and sufficient funding for rail in Belgium for the next ten years, beyond the political deadlines?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u41	Mr President, I would like to refer to our extensive exchange of views on 15 June on the new public service contract with SNCB and the performance contract with Infrabel, which addressed the various questions. Discussions at government level are continuing. The aim remains to approve and sign both contracts in the autumn, with entry into force on 1 January 2023. The budget component of future contracts is currently under discussion within the government. There is indeed a need for a budget, as rightly pointed out by the Finance Inspectorate regarding Vision 2040, which was not a budget document, but a document of inspiration and vision. Knowing the budgetary framework for the next ten years is necessary to finalize the negotiations by the end of the year. Public enterprises have reported their assessment of the additional means needed to achieve the targets set by the government and have given a figure that is now public at EUR 3.4 billion. As I said in committee on 15 June last, I am asking for more trains to run than those proposed by SNCB and to go faster in terms of accessibility. These are two priorities, including Parliament. Two weeks ago I said that I would come to the committee if the two contracts were signed. As you know, I attach great importance to involving Parliament. I will certainly do that for this very important dossier. I would like to recall that the public debate we had on 15 June 2022 is a first. Never before had a minister in charge of public enterprises, mobility or infrastructure come to Parliament to present the draft contracts transmitted to it by the committees of management of public railway undertakings. I have done so in full transparency by allowing Members to ask all the questions they wish to ask. There will be a parliamentary report on this work. I think it's a good thing in democracy. Similarly, I am in regular dialogue with the social partners who are well informed about what is happening: first, Vision 2040; then draft contracts; then a decision by the government on the budgetary framework for the next ten years; then the finalisation of the negotiations with a view to reaching contracts by the end of the year (a public service contract for SNCB, a performance contract for Infrabel) and the adjustments that will be made by the time these contracts are signed in the light of the various consultations that will take place, including on the basis of the suggestions that have been made by Parliament. This is all logical, it seems to me, implacable. Indeed, additional resources will be needed. This is in line with what is contained in the government agreement. This is in line with our ambitions for the train tomorrow. A negotiation has yet to take place on the height of these means, on their distribution over time. But my ambition, in accordance with the government agreement and with the agreement of my colleagues, is to give visibility to the two companies as to the means they will be able to afford for the next ten years. This is the most effective way to work. It's a case that matures, gradually, slowly but surely, and that will be possible in the second half of 2022, which I expect, like you, with great impatience.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u42	Minister, you are talking about transparency and democracy. However, the PVDA has not yet seen that management agreement. That's not okay, is it? How do you want us to study them seriously? In fact, I hope that we can still make proposals and launch ideas. I know that, as an opposition party, the N-VA already has the text. So I don't know if it's just the PVDA that doesn't have the lyrics yet. At least I don't think it's possible. You, as a democrat, always preach about the new political culture. However, it is an important dossier, because it covers a period of ten years and the future of SNCB, Infrabel and good public transport. So we have the right to have and study the texts so that we can still make proposals in Parliament. Secondly, there was no video during the debate. People couldn't even follow. That is not your fault, but, let us be honest, it was a limited debate. So we continue to insist that we should get the texts and be able to study them. That is a democratic right!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u43	I did not choose the room myself, and I was also a little disappointed that the debate took place in the Chamber of Father Damian, without cameras. I think it is important to have such a debate public. However, a report will be prepared by the services of the Chamber and I know that they are doing so very well and very precisely. The content will be made public after all, and that is important. However, you can also look at the past. You will see that there has never been such transparency as this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u44	There is no transparency if we do not have the texts, Minister. What the hell is that? Anyway, I won't say a word about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u45	I agree with what the previous speaker said. So you are talking about an extensive exchange of views. However, we were just sitting in the room looking carefully at a PowerPoint, whose news value was very small for me. As far as I am concerned, it was a warm-up and repetition of the ambitions and objectives previously expressed. After all, there was no news in it. We didn't get the final text either. So we need to discuss a text that we do not have. I don't think it's possible for some parties to get him either. Even parties outside Parliament, such as the press, will see him. Some parties therefore rely on a favourable wind and others do not have it. That does not benefit the debate and actually means that we do not have a debate. You say that you will come back after the signing, so that means that you do not really want a debate. It has already been signed and thus a fulfilled fact. Having a debate means giving the text in advance so that input can be given, with proposals and changes, then exchanging views, possibly with applause for the good... None of this will happen, however, because you will not be back until after the signature. So there is no de facto debate. This contrasts completely with the big words about transparency and a new way of political conduct at the start of the Vivaldi government. In practice, none of that comes into the house. I also wonder on what basis the railway companies' boards have approved this, if they do not have a view on the budgetary framework, but hopefully that will become clear in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u46	Minister, thank you for your answer. As a young woman and an eco-socialist representative, I know how important the stakes of tomorrow's rail sector are, particularly with regard to its modernisation and the sustainability of its jobs. I share your commitment to a long-term political vision. I shall therefore ask you later about the development of this budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u47	Mr Toventers, I attach great importance to the opening up of the port of Antwerp. I was just visiting there yesterday. As a major economic player, the port is a key partner for me to achieve my ambitions and those of the entire government for rail freight transport. Various measures are therefore being taken to facilitate the future opening up of the port. For example, Infrabel is working on an exercise aimed at determining a long-term vision of the architecture of the rail network based on the expected and ambitious evolution of demand for lanes. On the basis of these data, Infrabel has defined a number of bottlenecks on the rail network. Those bottlenecks will now be studied to identify solutions. The capacity offer will result from the combination of the way traffic is organised, depending on the demand of the candidates, the evolution of the systems and the processes. In addition, a study on a second railway opening of the port is ongoing, namely the Old Countries project. Finally, the 3RX route, which connects the port via Mol and Hamont in Belgium and Roermond and Venlo in the Netherlands with Germany, is investigated by the FPS Mobility as an alternative to the current Montzenroute. This study is part of discussions with the Dutch and German governments. Infrabel on his part has already completed the electrification of line 19 between Mol and Hamont. At the same time, the strategic multi-annual investment plan provides for the phased construction of a second rail link between Balen-Werpell and Neerpelt. Infrabel also completed the electrification of line 21C and is in the process of electrification, including the increase of a number of bridges, of line 15 between Mol and Hasselt. These are actual investments in rail works. The rail extension works in Montzen are part of a more general programme to extend the tracks to 750 metres. The construction of these tracks ensures that long trains will be able to run without restrictions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u48	I thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u49	Mr Toventos, increasing the accessibility of our Belgian stations is one of my policy priorities. Accessibility will be an important part of the new agreements we conclude with SNCB and with Infrabel. To this end, SNCB has set objectives in its plan for autonomously accessible stations. It is mainly about the increase in platforms and the renewal of platform equipment. As you know, the financing negotiations are currently under way. The cost of increasing a platform is about 1 million euros. These are the average costs for SNCB and Infrabel together, they include, for example, replacing the supporting structure, increasing the stairs and slopes, new floors and the adjustment of cables and platform furniture. Unfortunately, the platform increase with new stairs and lifts in Waregem has been postponed, but SNCB and Infrabel are making every effort to start work as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u50	Mr President, Minister, you say that everything will be done to carry out the work in Waregem as quickly as possible. I conclude from this that it is not about set-off but about delay. I would have asked for the reason, but I can't hear it. Indeed, many objectives are set in relation to increasing platforms and access to stations and trains, which is, of course, very good. Setting targets is one thing, and realising them is, of course, even more important. We were reminded of this last week, when we received the memorandum for the railways from the non-profit organisations Dito and KVG. It stresses the importance of increasing the platforms and the accessibility of trains. The objective is one, and I hope that the emphasis will be placed on achieving as much as possible. I hope it works out in Waregem, as in many other stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u51	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, these are two questions that have been joined, but which relate to separate issues. Minister, you know the station in Namur well because I've already met you on the docks before you became a minister. I dare, by the way, hope you're still on the train. After years of construction work, work at Namur station is coming to an end. As a reminder, it is necessary to install on the slab of the station, at level+2, a bus station for the peri-urban lines of the TEC. The aim is also to complete, at the +1 level, the SNCB station itself. Minister, what is the schedule for completion of work at Namur Station? When will the TEC bus station be operational? What is the total cost of the work? What financial arrangements have been agreed with the Wallonia Transport Operator (OTW), the Wallonia Public Service (SPW) or other bodies in the Walloon Region? What is the share of SNCB and the federal government in the cost of this work? The accessible surface of the station, including TEC spaces, will increase considerably. However, no later than yesterday, during the communal council, it was once again stressed that the district of the station is an area of insecurity. How can security be guaranteed? Will the teams of Securail be strengthened? Are there any agreements with the Namur-Capital police zone? Once the bus station is operational, the TEC's peri-urban buses will climb through a ramp on the railway station slab (level+2) to drop off and pick up their passengers, and then go down to the road level on the ground. What is the difference between these two levels? What will be the carbon balance and emissions of other pollutants resulting from these successive climbs and descents? Indeed, getting buses up and down is not neutral in environmental terms. Finally, account was taken of winter conditions (freeze, ice, snow, etc.) on these ramps when designing these ramps? As you certainly know, Namur is cut in half by railway lines. The neighbourhoods north of the city – Bomel, Herbatte and part of Saint-Servais – are isolated from the administrative and commercial hypercentre of the city. This Herbatte bridge was built in 2003 and is still owned by Infrabel. Nevertheless, it remains a big black spot. The elevators on this bridge have almost been out of use. It is slippery in winter and lighting is failing. An agreement was signed between the city of Namur and Infrabel on 19 July 2018. It sets out the obligations of each other to remedy this situation, to repair and make the place cleaner than it is today. A first meeting would have taken place in 2019 between the city, Infrabel and ORES, I am told on the side of the city, to consider the repair of lighting, the repair of elevators, the alignment of electrical installations and the rehabilitation of the bridge in particular at the level of the surface. A schedule of deadlines and tasks has been defined. It was in 2019. It's now 2022. I am told, on the city side, that the study of ORES has been completed and that a counting cabinet has been placed so that the city can take over the elevators. The elevators would have been brought back into compliance. However, they are not yet in working order. It should be noted that this is an impassable obstacle, without elevators, for mothers with children, for cyclists, for the elderly. It's a relatively high bridge. I would therefore like to know what the situation is on the Infrabel side. What is the schedule for the complete rehabilitation of the bridge? When will the elevators be put back into service, with what guarantees for a long-term operation?.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u52	I confirm that I know the station of Namur and frequent it as much as possible. I am pleased to see that the work under way is moving forward. At the end of April, I met with the Municipal College of Namur City to take stock of all the mobility issues that concern her. Work at Namur station will be completed by the end of this year. The gradual commissioning of the bus station is being planned by the TEC. The works which consist mainly of the development of the bus station over the railway station, as well as the accesses to it, have been the subject of a flat-rate financing from the Walloon Region. On the railway slab, new premises have been set up for the railway police, thus ensuring greater visibility and better working conditions. Each partner shall contribute financially to the development work concerning him or her. In parallel with the work carried out by the Walloon Region, the SNCB improves the reception of travellers at the level of its Travel Center. The Mobility FPS has allocated a budget of EUR 9 million to the project. I let the TEC communicate on the budget concerning him. The guarantee of safety in the new bus station is not part of the security perimeter under the responsibility of Securail. It is the responsibility of the TEC to answer questions relating to the operation, durability and safety of the bus station. I have no doubt, however, that this issue is an integral part of his thinking and work. As far as the carbon balance of the climb of the ramp by buses is concerned, I think it is necessary to look at the carbon balance in a much wider way. Starting next year, Namur Station will be an exemplary multimodal train station, which will allow passengers to pass from bus to train in an easy and secure way, without having to wait for an elevator, without having to cross a street. This will make the Namur station even more attractive, as will its combined mobility services. This is where we need to find the positive carbon balance of the work done. The multimodal train station model will make our public transport even more attractive in the future. In this case, the location of the bus station on the roof of the railway station was justified by the specific configuration of the city of Namur. The objective of the government agreement and the work I am implementing in the field of rail is to double the modal share of the train in all Belgian movements. With regard to your question about the Herbatten bridge, Infrabel informs me that the 2018 convention to which you refer actually provides for the city to take over the bridge. In this context, as you also mention, the obligations of the different parties were then clarified. The infrastructure manager has implemented the various actions which fall within his prerogatives: the rehabilitation of the lifts with the company OTIS, the installation of temporary lighting, the contact with ORES and the placing of an order with his services for the final lighting. Infrabel has complied with its obligations under the Convention and is awaiting intervention by ORES with regard to lighting. Unfortunately, this commissioned work has not yet begun, but the order form has been signed. This work at Namur station is in the last straight line. I will continue to follow them closely as work on the whole territory in all stations but with particular attention so that Namuroises and Namurians have an accessible, functional and multimodal station. In this case, I think we will have something quite exemplary, even if a budget was needed, albeit much less than work at other parts of the network and at other stations. There were also inconveniences for travellers. I have suffered them myself but I think it will take only a few months to see the quality and interest of these achievements and to be able to enjoy them for many years hoping to see more and more passengers and commuters taking the train at this station in Namur in all possible directions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u53	Minister, you said at the end of the year, but you didn't say. Is a date already planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u54	The end of the year is December 31st!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u55	I know! Of course making the station and intermodality more attractive is also an objective that can be endorsed. You understand my question: I'm a little skeptical about getting buses up and down. This is no longer the case now, but at the time there was the land called the Courgette, and the old building of La Poste, next to the station. In our opinion, it would have been better to erect the bus station there. But be it! We're here now! For the rest, I took note of the elements you gave me. My colleague, Anouk Vandevoorde, in the Walloon Parliament, will not hesitate to put questions about TEC in this House. I will return to you in relation to the SNCB in Namur, since we are between Namurois. I think we should also evaluate, but here I am a little out of the question, if we can foresee any additional stops on certain lines, such as on the Namur-Dinant line, for example to Dave or Beez, to have a Namurian express network; but we are still waiting for the Brussels express network. On occasion, I will ask you about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u56	Mr Minister, research carried out by VTM News shows that electric cars are more involved in an accident with injuries than other cars. This conclusion follows an analysis of more than 140,000 accidents in Belgium between 2017 and 2020. Although there are undoubtedly some reservations about the research, it is striking that the conclusion is consistent with previous research from the Netherlands. First, can you confirm the conclusion of this investigation? Secondly, the Traffic Administration Foundation is calling for further research. Are you prepared to respond to this call? If so, in what way? If not, why not? Thirdly, what possible explanations do you see for over-representation of these cars in accident statistics?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u57	Mr Raskin, I can confirm that the calculation by VTM News, based on two data sources from Statbel, is correct. However, it is not clear which Dutch investigation is being referred to. Vias makes two comments on the conclusion of this study. Firstly, the results of the calculation should be balanced. If the accident risk for electric cars is already higher, which requires further investigation, this can be explained by external factors, for example by the fact that electric cars are more often used as a company car. Business cars are more often insured with omnium, so the damage is likely to be reported more frequently. Secondly, the VTM News study does not take into account the kilometres travelled by cars per type of fuel. It is possible that electric cars travel more kilometres than average, which can explain the higher number of injuries. As I said, these are hypotheses. Since last year, Vias has been studying the injuries of persons involved in injury accidents, depending on the characteristics of the vehicles concerned. An initial analysis does not indicate that accidents are more serious when an electric vehicle is involved. This first analysis will be refined this year by examining to what extent other factors typical of electric cars, such as a larger mass and a large number of vehicle support systems, play a role in the road safety or insecurity of this type of vehicle. We will therefore no doubt discuss this later, either in this committee or at another forum.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u58	Minister, 7 out of 1,000 petrol vehicles are involved in an annual accident involving injuries, 8.5 per 1,000 diesel cars and 20 per 1,000 electric vehicles. Those are quite different things. I don't want to give the study any more weight than necessary. You confirm the results of the study and say yourself that it is unclear which Dutch study is being referred to, but since there seems to be such a study there which does produce a number of similar conclusions, it seems to me appropriate to examine this further. I hear from you that Vias is already doing so, and I assume you will follow it further. In due course, therefore, we will certainly discuss this subject again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u59	Minister, some of the questions are already somewhat dated. These are incidents on the Ostend-Brussels train and on the Blaarmeersen in Ghent. Let me focus on my last question, as it is the most current one. On Saturday 25 June two men were the victims of violence during the train ride from Ghent-Sint-Pieters to Waregem. After a dispute arose with a group of about ten young people, the victims got quite a few blows to deal with. One of them was badly wounded, with a broken eye socket and a damaged eye, taken to the hospital. Do you consider that the umpteenth event of violence within the rail system will benefit the attractiveness of the train as a means of transport? Are the perpetrators of the facts known? If so, what steps are being taken against them? If not, will they be tracked down? Are there any witnesses and/or camera footage available? Did the young people who did the facts have a valid ticket? Was this checked by the train attendant? Was Securail and/or railway police and/or local police alerted? What measures will you take to ensure the safety of railway staff and passengers at the stations, on the platforms and on trains?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u60	It goes without saying, Commissioner, that such behaviour is absolutely unacceptable, because it not only disrupts rail traffic but also leads to dangerous situations. Tracking is very risky. We have already discussed this very unfortunate incident in plenary. The destination of the train in question, in which the problems occurred on 22 May, was Liège, via Brussels. A criminal investigation is under way and, in the context of this case, SNCB will declare itself an injured party. If the prosecution prosecutes the identified offenders, SNCB shall become a civil party for the purpose of recovery of damages. If the court decides to dismiss the case, SNCB will examine, on the basis of the elements contained in the criminal record, whether there are grounds to act by direct subpoena or before the civil court. For each case of aggression, a complaint shall be lodged by the staff concerned. SNCB declares itself an injured party, so that it is kept informed of the outcome of the criminal investigation. When the Public Prosecutor prosecutes, a civil action is always brought by HR Rail in an assault recognised as an accident at work. This is done by the staff member for his personal damage and by SNCB for her own damage as a result of the incident. If the public prosecutor decides to dismiss the case, SNCB and HR Rail shall examine, on the basis of the elements contained in the criminal record, whether there are grounds to act by direct subpoena or before the civil court. During the consultation with the mayor, the police and emergency services, and the security services of SNCB and De Lijn, the movement of citizens to the Blaammeersen by public transport was discussed. Measures will be taken to better monitor such cases. SNCB's Security Operations Center (SOC) is responsible, together with the communication and information centres of the aid and police services, for the continuous monitoring and monitoring of these movements during the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u61	Minister, your answer applies in principle to the three cases. Unacceptable. I hear that word a lot. That there's a criminal investigation going on, that these people are being tracked down, I hope so. I also hope that they will indeed be subpoenaed, if they are caught or identified, and that they will be severely punished, that they will be severely fined. I would also like to say, if it is right, that there has apparently been a general consultation with other services on the problems in the Blaarmemeersen. I also read that cameras would be hung. That is a first step in the right direction. However, much more will be needed to ensure safety on the railways, stations and trains. I hope that this will be followed by decisive policies, which will also lead to effective results.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u62	I refer to my written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u63	I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u64	I will skip the introduction, but I would like to put the questions to the Minister so that he can make sure that he answers them each time. From your response to the audit report of the Court of Auditors, I can see that there will be another concession for the distribution of license plates. Do you think there are any alternatives to organising that award after the concession has ended? If you are not looking for alternatives, when will the next concession be issued? When does your administration start preparing for this? To what extent do you, as a minister, intend to weigh up the decision-making process on this issue? Is there a possibility within the current concession contracts to reduce the cost of fees, so that the citizen pays only the real cost? Or is there at least an arrangement that prevents the government from making a profit on the concession? What will you do to put this price moderation into practice if there is such a possibility? In your view, given the apparent high profit margin, is it possible to block further price revisions by bpost under the current concession? Are you prepared to have a legal investigation into what options there are? Will you take the necessary steps to collect the outstanding contractual fines from Bpost? How much is there left to recover in that respect? What will you do for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u65	For the background that gave rise to the question, I refer to the audit of the Court of Auditors, which is quite critical of that agreement. I've been going through the report with some surprise. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that the FPS Mobility and Transport has contested many findings of the Court of Auditors and has given answers in accordance with the Court of Auditors' procedure, namely that the person concerned can respond to the findings. The Court of Auditors then nuanced a number of evaluations. However, there are a number of critical points. I am therefore curious to hear the Minister's answers and his views on these agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u66	This is an interesting file and a beautiful legacy from the previous Minister of Mobility. Thank you for your various questions about making license plates. First of all, I would remind you that the first concession was concluded in 2010 to introduce the plates in European format. This development required a completely different management and logistics, for which the DIV had neither the staff, nor the logistical resources, nor the technical expertise. Since 2010, it is still about producing license plates and registration documents and delivering packages at home or at another address of your choice. On 19 September 2017, the company "Tonius' lodged a complaint with the FOD requesting that the first concession that ended should not be extended by four years. This would distort competition as the necessary investments and a reasonable return were made. Following that complaint, the FPS decided not to extend the previous concession, but to launch a new concession. The second concession had to start quickly to ensure continuity of service. Contrary to the Court of Auditors' view, the redrafting of the new specifications carried out an evaluation of the old concession in order, inter alia, to pursue the following objectives. A first objective is to maintain and even improve the same quality of service to citizens. The delivery periods D+1 and D+0 remain unchanged as the fee remains unchanged. In addition, this is a second attempt at home delivery if the citizen is not present at home, the dispatch of the registration certificate to an address of his choice, as with a registration plate, and the deletion of all the plates by the concessionaire with the immediate delivery of the notice of deletion. A second objective is to ensure the quality and non-falsification of plates and registration documents. For all these reasons, the manufacture of registration plates requires not only specific expertise and tools to ensure the conformity and quality of the plates and their legibility, to prevent fraud, and to allow them to be read by ANPR cameras, but also to perform pretests by accredited laboratories ISO 17025 to verify that the plates produced meet the technical requirements. Thirdly, it is intended to make the necessary changes to remedy certain shortcomings of the previous concession by requiring the concessionaire to carry out all the deletions not provided for in the previous concession and to provide the customer with the notice of deletion without payment to the counter, by assessing and evaluating existing quality requirements and the more precise determination of the resulting penalties and fines and the use of accurate questionnaires for the award criteria, with a quotation for each demand in order to objectively compare the offers. In the light of those objectives, the special specification for the new concession contained the following major changes, in particular to ensure, firstly, that the concessionaire has the necessary tools for production, secondly, that the concessionaire can produce plates and registration documents that meet the requirements of the European Regulation, to verify by testing on samples, and thirdly, that award criteria are introduced in relation to safety, transport and ICT aspects, described in the tender. Therefore, the Court found that the FPS had concluded the contract not only by adding those criteria, but also by maintaining the execution of the new contract within four months of the award of the contract, as planned during the first concession, and also by D+1 delivery periods. If the execution deadline had been changed, the former concessionaire would have lodged a complaint, as the first concession required that plates be imported in the European format known since then. As far as delivery time is concerned, the FOD does not see how it can be assessed, because the customer pays for that service level. It can be concluded that the analysis of the old concession was carried out in order to draw up a new adapted special specifications. The new provisions are not contrary to the law on public procurement, as determined by the Court of Auditors. As regards delivery deadlines, no fines could be imposed during the pandemic on the basis of the legal analysis of the law firm consulted by the FPS. In addition, in September 2020 bpost was fined €262,840 for an IT problem that was attributable to them and resulted in a delay in delivery. Since the end of the pandemic, FPS Mobility has been following up on a quarterly basis the rate of compliance with the deadlines and imposing fines where justified. As regards the fines for the security audit carried out before the start of the concession, the Court of Auditors considers that the interpretation does not comply with the provisions of the special specifications. The Court of Auditors considers that the fines for the starting point of the concession were applicable. However, the special specifications expressly provide that fines shall apply if the corrective measures are not taken within the time limit of the start of the concession. Taking into account the statements made by the companies controlling the vaults and confirming that those vaults were installed before the start date of the concession, no fine was imposed. The concession allows stock management of license plate and registration documents in highly secured buildings to prevent theft. In addition, there are many other requirements, such as an automated order picking system that can send a license plate and a registration certificate in the same package, the quick delivery of packages to users at home and at a different address, etc. The DIV, as said, does not have these skills. A new concession will therefore be granted and the FPS Mobility will in any case evaluate the current concession. It will also follow the recommendation to conduct a market investigation for the publication of the contract notice. My cabinet is following this very closely. In my letter on this file which I addressed to the Court of Auditors, I stressed that I would pay particular attention to the following elements in the award procedure for the new concession: Firstly, to make a full assessment of the performance of the current concession in order to improve the scope of the new concession; Secondly, the performance indicators explicitly link to targets and sanctions to ensure a follow-up of the services provided by the concessionaire. This is already the case in the current concession, except for delivery periods; Thirdly, the proportionality between the fees and the costs of the State remains assured, as is already the case, given the integration of the indirect costs of the DIV into the calculation of the total costs of issuing the registration plates and registration documents; Fourthly, ensure that the contract notice is published sufficiently in advance and at a time favourable to the submission of tenders; Fifth, clarify the procurement process, in particular with regard to the possibility of negotiation; Sixth, objectification of the price revision formulas; Finally, ensure the security and protection of personal data. Also for the current concession, I will guard with my cabinet a number of important elements to be respected, including a report at the level of the DIV and the follow-up by the DIV and the steering committee of the implementation reports, as determined by the FOD.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u67	Thank you, Minister, for this detailed answer. I do find some good things in that, good intentions that are being made, and I can only welcome that. You are talking about compliance with the deadlines and the execution of the fines, which apparently did not happen in the past. A thorough evaluation should also be carried out for the procurement procedure. I hope that it will be considered there to take that back into its own hands, that this will be a possibility in the procurement process as a function of the whole that will be offered. You can't help it. You inherited a mess, a rotten file from your predecessor, but ultimately the ordinary citizen is screwed. He currently pays far too much and gets bad delivery times and poor service.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u68	Minister, I would like to hear that there is a profound evolution, but I hope that you will not do as you did with the management agreements and that we can also review this evolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u69	Mr President, Minister, I will not repeat the severe criticism of the Court of Auditors. In particular, I have heard an extensive account of the first concession, its content and also its interpretation of the next concession. From your answer, I would say that you have already decided that there will be a new concession. You have made and will follow a number of recommendations. Your words show that the third concession will be a great success story anyway. You set the bar high with that. It has to and can only go better. We are, of course, following up on the results of that third concession.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u70	Mr President, Minister, you clearly recognise the seriousness of the audit and will draw the necessary lessons from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u71	A concerned doctor recently pointed out that the ban on the use of the e-step under the age of 16 would, moreover, affect a particular category of young people. These include chronically ill children who are physically unable to cycle and therefore use an e-step to move. The fact that they can be mobile in this way increases their self-confidence and independence. Because it is a rather limited group of people, I do not think it is appropriate, and perhaps not desirable, to adapt the regulation to their advantage. The current rules could be helpful if necessary. There is an exception to the prohibition under 16 years for persons with reduced mobility who use motorised propulsion equipment intended exclusively for them. How exactly should this exception be interpreted? In other words, are children in the situation outlined above covered by this exception? If not, what alternative solution do you see for these children?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u72	Mr Raskin, it is important that we should pay attention to everyone's mobility, including their mobility, and perhaps especially to those who, for a variety of reasons, face obstacles to freedom of movement and freedom of movement. The derogation from the minimum age shall apply only to motorised propulsion equipment intended exclusively for persons with reduced mobility. Of course, this is not the case for the classic model of e-steps. The law provides for several exceptions to the minimum age of 16 years for driving a motorized propulsion device. That age limit shall not apply in residential areas, in pedestrian areas where bicycles are allowed, in play streets and on reserved roads. There are exceptions for a child who uses an e-step instead of a bicycle for health reasons, unless the e-step is intended exclusively for people with reduced mobility and has been adapted accordingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u73	Minister, I did not quite understand you. Can I conclude from your last sentence that these children fall under the exception or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u74	I will repeat the last sentence of my reply: "There is no exception for a child who uses an e-step instead of a bicycle for health reasons, unless the e-step is intended exclusively for people with reduced mobility and has been adapted accordingly."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u75	I'll take another look at the full answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u76	Mr President, Minister, we fully welcome the development of "velo" cars on trains. This initiative promotes alternative and clearly greener modes of transport. However, it is not uncommon to hear or read testimonies from users denouncing the lack of hygiene there. Indeed, these places are not equipped with garbage bins, while they have seats and thus allow users to stay. It is therefore obvious that it would be useful to have bins available there. Of course, the presence or otherwise of garbage cans does not in any way excuse the behaviour of commuters who do not respect the premises and who could take their waste with them, but recognize that improvements would prove useful. Minister, do you intend to remedy the situation? If so, what is the deadline?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u77	Mr President, Mrs Matz, I am quite surprised at your question. We probably don't take the same trains, but I never had to see - and the SNCB confirms this to me - that there was no trash in the bicycle spaces. Waste bins are present according to the original concept of rolling stock. For example, in the I10 cars recently designed to be able to install the structures and belts to accommodate bicycles, as part of the Plan Vélo-Train that I have put in place, garbage cans are still present with one trash can for four seats. It is obvious that there is no bin installed in the specifically dedicated area in order not to interfere with the free zone for bicycles and to avoid any risk of damage to these bicycles. But there are always seats in this same area with garbage cans that are well present. I see it in all the equipment I can use, whether it's Desiro or the new M7 cars. Mrs Matz, I confess that I do not understand your question. In any case, I can assure you that, on all trains, garbage cans are provided and that bike pitches do not prevent the presence of these garbage cans because, close to these bike pitches, there are always seats and therefore always garbage cans.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u78	Minister, if you wish, I can present you pictures. It may be the exception that confirms the rule, in which case I apologize. These photos confirm that it is a wagon dedicated to bikes littered with garbage on the floor and that there is no trash. I was wondering whether this was indeed the case with all the equipment as it is with this one. I can send you these photos from a resident of Waremme. I assume this is the Waremme-Brussels line. I also note that this is the constituency of Mr. President. Mr.Minister, I therefore asked you about the reaction of this user and others who had called me and said that this was not the case, and I was concerned about it. Since I have photos in support, I find that not all the equipment is equipped with garbage. Now, if you're telling me that he is, it's probably that the trash was torn before or what I know.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u79	Mrs. Matz, it's still possible. I'm going to conduct the investigation based on your photos. I confirm, however, that the exception, if any, confirms the rule. And, of course, the absence of a garbage can does not prevent the very high use of public transport from storing its waste and putting it in a garbage bin nearby. There are always some, including in the breakpoints. Thank you for your concern about the quality of the environment on our trains. That's part of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u80	I must remain neutral in this debate. In any case, I will take careful notice of your photos after the commission, Mrs Matz.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u81	Thank you, Mr Van den Bergh. I will begin with my answer to your first question. Article 23 (2) of the Road Code provides that only valid foreign driving licences are eligible for exchange. It is sufficient that a foreign licence is valid when it is submitted by the holder to the municipality for exchange. Even if the licence cannot be exchanged immediately, because the period of 185 days during which the holder settles his habitual residence in Belgium has not yet ended, for example, the exchange procedure has been used and will be completed in any event, even though the period of validity of the foreign licence would now expire. In the period from 24 February 2022 until today, 88 Ukrainian driving licences were exchanged. No data on the number of requests for exchange are available from the FPS. Each licence offered for exchange shall be checked for authenticity in order to ensure that only genuine official driving licences are recognised in accordance with the Road Traffic Act and the Vienna Convention of 8 November 1968 on road traffic, which Ukrainian driving licences must comply with. In Belgium, only the Central Office for Combating Corruption of the Federal Police has the technical competence to do so. The time limits therefore depend both on the number of documents submitted and on the working capacity of this service to which the licences for authentication are sent by the municipalities. In practice, therefore, the duration generally varies between three and six weeks. Holders of a foreign licence whose period of validity has expired shall not be allowed to drive on public roads. Before the expiry of the period of validity, they may apply for the exchange, as I explained earlier. If the foreign driving licence has already expired on the appearance that the holder arrives in Belgium, he must pass the test in Belgium like any other person who does not have a valid driving licence. The Vienna Convention, to which the Belgian law refers, does not allow an expired driving licence to be recognised as valid. There is, of course, always the possibility, given the difficult situation of many Ukrainians in our country and elsewhere, that proposals are being made to amend the Treaty rules, but this will have to be done at international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u82	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You are talking about the rules that formally apply to foreign drivers and how the transfer to a Belgian license plate goes, but this is a problem that arises for Ukrainian refugees who are in a difficult situation. They often no longer have the right papers in their possession or have other problems. My question was to what extent we are faced with such problems. You didn't give much information about that. Is there a need for an appropriate compensation for these people? It's a real challenge for them anyway. It is not entirely clear to me to what extent this problem arises and whether we need to find a solution, whether in an international context or not. We will continue to follow this up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, behind the title "the hot water train" is of course a much broader debate which concerns us, Mrs Buyst and myself, intensely. Weed removal is currently mainly ensured by pesticides, including the famous glyphosate, which is banned by various authorities. We were able to very recently welcome your communication regarding Infrabel and the prospects for it. An experimental hot water train, a grandmother's or grandfather's remedy, is currently used, as in Switzerland. So my questions are simple. In view of the issue of weeding on railway lines, the number of kilometres of network and the intensity required in terms of the product used and how to use it, what are the prospects for the development of this hot water train technology. This will allow us to get out of the use of pesticides completely or in large part via other means already used by Infrabel. What are the prospects for timing? It was recommended that the use of glyphosate be discontinued by the end of 2022. Will we be able to meet this deadline? If not, within what time frame is the implementation of this new technology planned? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u84	Thank you, Mr. Parent. I will give an answer in both French and Dutch, since the joint questions of three Members of Parliament in two linguistic roles were recorded. This is an extremely important subject for me. Since my arrival, I have therefore treated it as a priority. It is about protecting and preserving our biodiversity, which is our life insurance policy. Our railway companies must also take an exemplary role in this. Secondly, it is also a question of protecting public health. There are no fully-fledged alternative techniques for large-scale weed control in the ballast bed and on the service paths that take into account the safety requirements of rail operation. That is the problem facing all railway companies worldwide. Of course, that doesn't mean we're stuck with the suits. Infrabel is continuing its action plan to drastically reduce the use of pesticides. The emphasis is on alternative management in nature areas and in the by-products of mechanical techniques. In consultation with knowledge centres, universities, entrepreneurs and industry, Infrabel develops alternative projects in which electrical techniques, bioherbicides and alternative building and planting techniques are assessed through field trials. In order to arrive at an effective solution that is operational, technical and financially feasible, I will continue to support the railway sector in the coming years and give the necessary impetus. In the future the treatment will consist of a combination of different techniques, including mechanical management, hot water, bioherbicides, planting and so on. In consultation with the regional authorities, Infrabel already applies alternative techniques and adapted management where possible. The lowest global environmental impact is crucial. To illustrate this progress, I refer to the demonstration given by Infrabel on 20 June in Visé of the hot water train, which is one of the links in the chain that will eventually replace the use of pesticides. I took part in this demonstration. The first results are promising. Mr Parent, with regard to your specific questions on the hot-water weeding train of our grandfathers, I can give you the following answers. The weeding train is a prototype developed by Infrabel to protect the ballast bed and weed safety lanes. Since the fall of 2021, field trials have been carried out to optimize technical parameters and analyse the effectiveness of weed removal. Current results are promising, but show that further developments are needed to increase the speed of work, detect vegetation, automate sprinkling head control, and reduce water and energy consumption. In addition, alternative and preventive techniques are also being considered. In assessing each of these techniques, safety criteria for railway operations, employees and passengers are highlighted, as well as operational, technical and financial techniques. The overall environmental impact is obviously taken into account. Based on the current train configuration and test results, four technical trains are likely to be required for weed treatment on the rail network. Each train is equipped with two locomotives and six 60 m3 tank cars and one car with special techniques and a heat pump. The tests and analyses carried out will provide an accurate picture of the number of trains needed to meet the needs of the network. Depending on the subsequent development of the weeding train, with the application of vegetation detection and increased speed and autonomy, we will examine where the weeding train can be used effectively on the main and/or secondary tracks. Where the hot water train cannot be used according to speed and in specific natural areas, a combination of other alternative and preventive techniques will be applied. In the future, the hot water train prototype will be equipped with a vegetation detection system to treat only weeds in the ballast bed and safety lanes. As a first step, our goal is to improve the prototype and collect data. On the basis of these analyses, the results of the tests and the possible scope of the weeding train, it will be possible to arrive at a stable technical version of the train. Depending on this configuration, it will be possible to determine operating and investment budgets. Together with Infrabel, I am working hard to move as quickly as possible towards zero use of pesticides to maintain our rail network. This is in the interests of our environment, our biodiversity, our public health and the health of the workers of Infrabel. In this way rail transport, as the backbone of our mobility, becomes even more embedded in our environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u85	Minister, thank you for your answer. The goal of turning to zero is there. Both your response and that of Infrabel, whom we recently met with the Committee on Mobility, demonstrate a strong commitment in this regard. These last achievements are a demonstration of this. We can rejoice for the environment, for the residents and for the workers of Infrabel who handle these products. During a subsequent field visit with the Mobility Committee and in your company, we will be able to quantitatively measure the effective reduction of pesticides used for weeding the roads. It will be the subject of future work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u86	Questions Nos 55028415 and 55028425 by Mrs Jadin are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u87	Minister, I tabled this question a while ago and I am glad to be able to ask them, because I think it is a very important question. It concerns a possible support mechanism for rail operators. As you know, the rail operators went through a difficult period during the pandemic. They have had difficult years and then had to make a major investment, namely the postal equipment of their wagons in order to reduce the noise pollution from rail freight. In plenary, we adopted a support mechanism for this, which was earlier limited in time. The same railway undertakings will now also have to equip their locomotives with an ERTMS level 2 brake mechanism. This is also a result of European legislation. Belgium is one of the first countries to implement this. In practice, around 200 locomotives will have to be adapted before the end of 2024. The total cost of this investment is around EUR 56 million, of which EUR 21 million will be financed by Europe. For Belgium, this obligation represents an investment of about 35 million euros. After the difficult years that the freight operators have had on the track, they are now once again in desperate need of a support mechanism to enable them to carry out these mandatory adjustments to their locomotives. In order to be ready by the end of 2024, the works must start at the beginning of 2023 and the support mechanism should be in place. We know from the support mechanism that we have approved for the postal equipment of the wagons that it is not always allowed to go back in time. So it is very important that this is started. I understand that there was an intention to set up a working group. Do you intend to provide for a support mechanism for freight operators? If no, why not? If so, when will this support mechanism be available? Can you give us an update? Are you aware of the bitter need for a strong support mechanism for rail freight operators for the mandatory adjustment of their locomotives?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u88	As you know, I am doing everything in my power to support the freight sector in order to achieve the objective of doubling rail freight transport by 2030. Railway undertakings may submit a dossier to qualify for the European Funding Mechanism Connecting Europe Facility. The Belgian rail freight companies have already used this mechanism in the past for the equipment of the ERTMS units on board locomotives. My administration regularly promotes this mechanism among railway companies and other railway actors. With regard to aid to the sector, I can inform you that applicants and freighters by rail will soon be able to benefit from a reduction in the charging for the use of infrastructure up to a maximum of EUR 1,2 per effective train kilometre for the period 2022-2025. The dossier has been notified to the European Commission and is currently being examined. I am also pleased to report that all information on the federal financial support for the adjustment to make freight wagons quieter was released on 7 June. The holders of wagons and railway undertakings can now apply for their subsidy from the administration. They are very positive about that. I was there yesterday visiting Antwerp. The concrete action plan for rail freight will also include proposals to support the sector. Since this plan is still in preparation, I will return to it in due course. The equipment of the rolling stock with ETCS is indeed a financial investment for the railway companies. They will benefit from the lower operating costs when the Belgian rail network and the cross-border sections are equipped with this system. So it's a long-term investment. The master plan is almost ready, but we also started taking concrete measures some time ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u89	Minister, it is a very heavy investment for the sector, which is very much concerned. You are right that this will bring benefits for the whole sector in the long term, but it will of course be done in the implementation of European legislation and Belgium will be the first to implement the legislation in this case. The sector therefore needs to invest now, but the benefits will only follow within a few years. ICT links will then be made automatically, there will be faster driving and so on. So there are indeed long-term benefits, but now the sector has the costs. There are, of course, general support measures for the goods sector. You also announce that there will be a reduction in the infrastructure fee, but the question is whether that will be enough. In the Netherlands, which is not even its turn, everything is already complete. A support mechanism is provided for there. 10% of the total investment cost............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The necessary budgets have already been provided for this. I will, however, reconnect on this, because it is very important. You have expressed the ambition to increase the market share of freight transport from 12 to 20 % by 2040. The port of Antwerp is a key partner of yours, but the freight operators are of course also key partners to realise that ambition. We will set them back and see how far they will be able to jump with what is now being offered to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u90	Minister, the day after tomorrow is 1 July. That's a big day for a lot of people who want to go on vacation. For Zaventem airport alone, 72,000 passengers are spoken of, people who want to enjoy their well-deserved leave. You are Minister of Mobility, so it is important that you take care of them. On the other hand, we see that the situation is precarious for the airport workers, not to say very bad. We've seen a small action from the baggage dealers. They took action because they didn't even have time to eat. They work eight or nine hours in a piece without eating. They are expected to be extremely flexible. The workload is enormous. There's not enough staff. People don't know how to organize their lives. The large staff shortage has a huge impact on the workers at the airport. On the other hand, it is our second economic pole. I therefore find it incomprehensible that so little attention is paid to the people who work there. However, they make an important contribution to our economy. That is why we want urgent action to be taken to remedy the situation. Have you been able to contact the airport? This morning we heard Mr Feist, who does not seem to see the problem. I have the impression that he lives in a bubble and that he does not know what problems the employees have. Will people be allowed to leave? There has been a similar situation at Schiphol Airport. There the operator took action thanks to the FNV, the union. The Dutch government has provided an additional premium of EUR 5.25 per hour for all employees at the airport during the holiday period. Additional measures have also been taken for mobility and the like. Are you going to ask BAC to do something similar? What role can the government play in seeking a decent solution for the people? I also mentioned in plenary that we are asking for an urgent emergency plan to deal with these problems. Secondly, we are dealing with Brussels Airlines. There was the general strike on Monday, with almost all employees leaving the job. That was unseen. There was also an action of three days at Brussels Airlines and Ryanair. Minister, I have attended the action. The situation is precarious for the employees of Brussels Airlines. I am also extremely concerned about the safety of passengers. After all, when the staff have to do their job in such circumstances, when they are not adequately trained or tired of doing their job properly, there are also consequences for passengers. I hold my heart and hope that there will be no danger to the safety of passengers and workers at the airport. I come to my second series of questions. The DGLV plays a role in your services, because it ensures the safety of the aircraft but also respects rest and flight times. I have some questions about DGLV. Has the last year received complaints from DGLV about the rest periods at Ryanair and Brussels Airlines? If any complaints have been received, how many were there? What consequences have you had for it? How many checks have been carried out over the past year by the airport inspectors on the flight and rest periods of the pilots and cabin crew? What violations have been identified? Following an audit of DGLV by EASA in March 2021, which concerned flying personnel, EASA identified serious and critical deficiencies at the level of the Directorate. You yourself have already indicated here that there would be additional employment. Is that employment here now? Did those extra 29 full-time equivalents start? How many employees do DGLV have today? How many were in full-time equivalents in 2021? Do you think they function properly?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u91	Mrs. Vindevoghel, I am responsible for aviation. However, I do not have custody of private companies such as Aviapartner or BAC, but of DGLV or the Directorate-General for Aviation. There's a strike and then I get questions about the airlines. I'm not the boss of Brussels Airlines or Ryanair. Your questions must be credible. It is all too easy to ask questions about all kinds of things for which the federal government or the minister is not competent. I was informed of the strike at Brussels Airport on Monday 20 June. The decision to close the airport was coordinated and took place in the context of the national action of the same day and therefore went beyond the aviation sector. Due to the national action day, 24,500 departing passengers and 26,500 arriving passengers were unable to travel through the airport. I do not have information from the private airlines concerned about the action taken later in the week at Brussels Airlines and Ryanair. I don't have custody of Brussels Airlines or Ryanair. Furthermore, Brussels Airport Company is a private company. I refer you to the Minister of Finance for further answers to your questions. In our country, workers have the right to strike. This right to strike is guaranteed and I attach great importance to it. If it is up to the trade unions and the management of airport companies to enter into dialogue and reach agreements internally, the protection of workers' status seems useful to me to prevent future strikes. The figures relating to the checks and complaints at Brussels Airlines are not immediately available and are currently being collected. As regards Ryanair, the controls on foreign airlines' flight and rest periods are not the responsibility of DGLV. So my services have not received any complaints about this problem. These questions must be put to the Minister responsible for Employment. However, I am in favour of the fact that the employees of Ryanair who work from Belgium can benefit from Belgian social security. The 29 full-time equivalents at DGLV are divided as follows: 13 FTEs entered into service, 2 FTEs planned to enter, 5 selections in progress, 5 selections without result, because it was not a correct or competent candidate, which means that new actions can be defined, and 4 specific ICT selections in progress. That's all I can tell you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u92	Mr. Secretary, I find this hallucinating. As Minister of Mobility, you are responsible for ensuring that people who go on holiday can also leave. However, we are determining the current situation at the airport. If there is an accident at the airport tomorrow, I wonder which minister will be responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u93	We made the decision not to open the airport because it was unable to ensure the safety of the citizens who intended to go there, following a strike action, which is a right of workers. The day after the strike, the airport was opened and all the security conditions were met. This falls within my competence, via the Directorate-General for Air Transport (DGTA). We carry out the necessary security checks, including so that those who wish to fly, as you refer to, can do so in good conditions. This is the case every day, except on days when there is a strike.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u94	That was not my question, Minister. The point is that there are a lot of problems at the airport today. The Minister has the responsibility to ensure that working conditions at the airport are such that (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u95	Is Aviapartner a private or public company, Mrs. Vindevoghel? Let's be serious! Is it or is it not within my jurisdiction?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u96	Safety is your responsibility!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u97	Yes, and that's why we hired people. Aviapartner is a baggist. We have to stay serious. Is it or is it not within my jurisdiction?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u98	You're not competent for Aviapartner, but for security.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u99	Nor for private services that provide security. I am competent for DGTA and I am making every effort to ensure that everything works best at DGTA level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u100	If the government is in a position to deal with matters at Schiphol Airport and to ensure that passengers can leave when you say that you do not have the authority to do so, then perhaps we should make Brussels Airport a public undertaking again to solve the problems, Minister! I assure you that accidents are going to happen and then I do not know who will take responsibility for them. If someone who is not competent to do so has to load and unload an aircraft, without any further attention being paid to it, it will end badly! The PVDA wants an emergency plan for the summer, so that our travelers can leave on holiday and so that the people working at the airport can do their job in good conditions. Moreover, you have a great responsibility towards DGLV. On the ground, I hear that the EASA agreements are not being respected. There'll be complaints coming in! I can assure you of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u101	Mr Minister, as a Limburger, I am very concerned about the future of the Zennepad, so I would simply like to thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u102	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u103	Mr Raskin, in addition to the condition relating to registration in Belgium, the foreign licence to be exchanged must be issued in the country where the holder was habitually resident at that time. The exemption from the theoretical and practical driving licence shall apply only to holders of a foreign driving licence issued in accordance with the international road traffic conditions applicable or the validity of which has been recognised under agreements concluded by the King. Since the Geneva and Vienna Conventions on road traffic refer only to the date of issue and to those conditions, and since no derogation has been made so far in any bilateral agreement, the Federal Government uses only that date to check the foreign driving licences offered for exchange in accordance with the regulatory conditions. Over the years, the examination of requests for exchange has shown that the indication of dates is very different from those of the countries whose driving licences are recognised in Belgium. In the event of renewal or replacement, the date of first declaration shall sometimes be indicated as the date of issue, then the date on which the document was renewed or replaced. In some cases, the date of renewal or replacement shall be indicated separately. Other countries do not specify a date of issue at all, but only a date of expiry. In order to address the problem referred to above, the date of the first issue, replacement or renewal of the document submitted shall be taken into account as from 2019, as appropriate. That date must, of course, be stated on the licence in question. For example, the date most favourable to the applicant may be used for checking the regulatory conditions for exchange.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u104	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make it clear that this meeting room does not have a timer. It is therefore not easy to preside when there are interruptions. But now I will be attentive to speaking time, not failing to look at the clock that is before my eyes. Having said that, I have no doubt that the continuation of our meeting will take place in serenity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u106	Minister, in 2012, the City Council of Halle expressed its desire to buy a plot from SNCB. A year later, SNCB-Holding agreed in principle to the sale of the land if an agreement could be reached on the price and provided that OVAM provided the required soil attestation. In 2017, there was another meeting with the representatives of SNCB as well as the representatives of Infrabel. Here, too, the intention of a transfer of ownership of SNCB to the city of Halle was discussed and re-approved in principle by SNCB. In 2020, the file was transferred to SNCB, and since then, the City Council of Halle announced that SNCB would sell the land publicly to the highest bidder, despite the agreements previously made and despite the fact that the City of Halle wants to give the Zennepad a public destination and also has a concession for the use of part of those land. The sale has not yet been possible because Infrabel and SNCB have a property dispute on the land concerned. Are you aware of the file? What is your assessment of the evolution in it? What is the reason that SNCB reverts to previous agreements and now opts for a public sale to the highest bidder? What is the internal policy of SNCB as regards the sale of land in its ownership? Has this policy been changed during this legislature, and is that perhaps the explanation for the changed position in the Zennepad file?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u107	Mr Vanbesien, I will start with my answer to your last question and then answer your specific questions. My cabinet is often called upon about the real estate transaction of SNCB, in this case Halle, by municipalities or other interested parties. It is essential for me that municipalities or other interested parties are properly informed about the procedure in all transparency. First of all, I would like to remind you of the procedure followed by SNCB in the context of its real estate operation, taking into account the legal obligations in force, in particular the 1991 law on public undertakings. As soon as the decision to offer a good for sale has been taken, SNCB shall publish the invitation to tender for the goods in question, specifying the main conditions of sale and the minimum price fixed in advance on the basis of an internal and external evaluation. Candidates have an average of three months to bid. In this context, SNCB is legally obliged to respect the general principles of equality, non-discrimination and transparency. Those principles require any transfer of rights in rem to be preceded by an appropriate publication and organised in the context of a competitive procurement procedure open to all public and private operators. SNCB systematically organises a tender, preceded by adequate publicity. The municipalities are also informed of the intentions of SNCB, in particular through the requests for urban information necessary for the operation. Upon expiry of the time limit for the submission of the tender, a jury shall open the tenders and check their legality. SNCB is also obliged to sell at the market price, in compliance with European competition law, in particular the strict rules on State aid. Those principles shall apply to any public authority, irrespective of its level of power or competence. These principles may be waived only in exceptional cases for relevant and sufficient reasons of general interest or in the event of special circumstances of the operation, such as the transfer of an enclave to the owner of the adjacent site. Moreover, Article 14 of the Special Law of 8 August 1980 on institutional reforms provides that the regional legislator may not impose a right of pre-purchase for - I quote - 'public goods belonging to the federal public or private domain'. The legislator's intention, as explained in the parliamentary work, was to extend the concept of "capital in the federal public and private domain" beyond the capacity of the federal State alone, and thus to include the assets of legal persons entrusted by the federal State with the performance of a public service mission, such as SNCB. That is the legal framework in force. However, I consider it essential for the public railway companies to fulfil their full role of public service. In addition to the above mentioned transparency, a consistent attitude is also important. It is not for nothing that I have changed the management contract of SNCB into a public service contract. For your specific question about Halle, SNCB confirms to me that the development of the Zennepad site is still planned this year. Finally, I asked SNCB for more information on the history of the file and on the evolution of its views on the subject. However, I have not yet received any specific answers to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u108	The legal framework is clear to me, Minister. However, I am still hungry about the precise case. However, I understand from your reply that you will receive information on this from SNCB. I will deliver the information obtained today to the local administrators of the city of Halle. It is important that the transfer can take place in 2022, because the municipality wants to give the domain a public destination and subsidies against it. They can only receive those grants until the end of 2022. There is therefore a need to continue. I am counting on you to give me the answers as soon as you get them from SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u109	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Tusters referred to the Committee on Energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u110	Graffiti and any other form of damage to public or private property are covered by the term vandalism. Trains and stations are omnipresent in our country and unfortunately do not escape vandalism. Unfortunately, SNCB loses a lot of money from cleaning or repairing damaged infrastructure and from using technical and human surveillance. In addition, the environment is threatened by the use of dangerous products, necessary for cleaning. Often graffiti is linked to illegal traffic on the railway domain. In general, SNCB can argue that graffiti and vandalism contribute to the feeling of insecurity of its customers and neighborhood residents and harm its image. SNCB has a whole arsenal of measures to be determined on the basis of a risk analysis. It takes into account, inter alia, the concentration of facts of graffiti, the nature of the equipment to be protected and the accessibility of the places where its trains are parked. A closed site is obviously easier to secure than an open, extensive bundle. Various technical means of prevention, such as surveillance cameras, can be placed on a site where much vandalism is committed. The advantage of the latter is that they are connected or connected to burglary detection systems. Other measures may also be taken, whether they are stepping up the monitoring rounds or strengthening physical and/or technological measures. In some bundles, where this kind of vandalism occurs at the weekend, the chaste teams are also strengthened. In order to protect its passengers, staff and goods, SNCB also has Securail and an internal surveillance service, B-Security. It also calls on a monitoring company for certain tasks for which no railway expertise is required. However, the Belgian rail network is very extensive and it will never be possible to guarantee constant physical presence around the clock. It is therefore necessary to use technological means, particularly in the field of the protection of goods. Graffiti sprayers or taggers are very difficult to identify. However, SNCB remains willing to cooperate with the police if the judicial authorities and the police set up an action plan against graffiti. SNCB will do everything in its power to remove traces of vandalism by graffiti as soon as possible so as not to satisfy the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u111	Mr. Secretary, I'm going along with your story. It is impossible to keep an eye on and protect everything around the clock. I'm afraid that's not possible. I would also like to hear that we are looking at detection systems, surveillance dogs and companies. Anything that can protect our trains from that kind of vandalism is to my mind encouraging, because I find it incredibly unfortunate that these new M7 trains have already been sprayed with graffiti. That's too bad. A tip I would like to give is to have a awareness campaign on this in the SNCB stations. In short, anything that can help to reduce the damage, after all, it costs a lot of money and energy from chaste crews.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u112	Minister, I do not intend to rush you, but I tabled this question immediately after I asked my previous question on the Hamont-Weert rail link. Do you have any news on that file?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u113	Mr Toventers, it seems that it is becoming a tradition to return to this dossier at every committee meeting. On 8 June 2022, I presented a complete picture of the Hamont-Weert rail link in response to questions from yourself and Mr Raskin. As I said at the time, all the work has been carried out on the Belgian side of the border and the railway has been completely electrified to Hamant. The ball is now in the camp of our northern neighbors. These are the rules of democracy. As you know, I do not leave behind to emphasize the interest of Belgium in the connection Antwerp-Hamont-Weert with every contact with my Dutch colleague. On Thursday 9 June 2022 a debate took place on the track in the Dutch Parliament's Lower House. The Hamont-Weert dossier was also discussed. I quote what Secretary of State Heijnen said during that debate: "It is quite right to ask about the Weert-Hamont connection. I'm just really trying to figure it out. So I need a little space to get this straight, to make that agenda feasible and realistic in the end." In other words, the Secretary of State clearly indicates that he wants to go further into the matter, if I translate that correctly. Of course, my cabinet and my administration will revisit that point at the next meeting of the bilateral steering group Belgium-Netherlands in September 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u114	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic843x.u115	Question No 55027512C by Mrs Sophie Rohonyi and attached questions No 55028427C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin and No 55029009C by Mrs Sophie Rohonyi are postponed.
