ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u1	Mr. Chair, Minister, on April 4, 2022, the IPCC, without surprise, took out the third and final chapter of its sixth assessment report, which deals specifically with the mitigation of climate change. It's not good news even if it's not surprising. What surprised me more was the lack of echoes in the press. This is probably due to the fact that we are experiencing several crises at the same time. Of course, you spoke on the matter. I hope we will come back to this in a little more depth. This third chapter highlights several elements. In particular, in order to maintain the rise to 1.5oC, we need to stabilize our greenhouse gas emissions before 2025, both at Belgian and global level, in three years' time, and to reduce them by 48% by 2030 and 80% by 2050 compared to 2019! On the other hand, to control climate change, we need to get out of fossil fuels as quickly as possible and, therefore, at least put an end to investments in these energies. The report also mentions that solutions exist: we know how to do it and we have the technology to do it. This is particularly the case for renewable energy, which is cheaper and more efficient. There is also the need to radically change our production and consumption patterns. A new emphasis is placed on behaviour, particularly in terms of mobility and nutrition, specifically for the socially favoured groups of course. Finally, neither carbon storage nor technology alone will enable us to achieve our objectives, since immediate removal from fossil fuels is necessary. Minister, I was asking you at the end of the first two chapters and I come back today to this third and final part. My questions are pretty obvious. What else can we expect under this legislature to get out of fossil fuels? What are the other levers on the table in the policies you lead to give us the hope of achieving our climate goals in the next three years?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u2	Madam Minister, on 4 April 2022 the IPCC presented the long-awaited third and final part of its sixth assessment report on climate change. That third part focuses on solutions to combat climate change, in particular mitigation. As expected, the report brought bad news. Global emissions have never been so high. Certain paths to keep climate change below 1.5°C are now definitely out of reach. So the world is anything but on course. Even if we get the commitments of all the countries at COP26, at best, we will end up warming up to 2.7°C by the end of the century. Maybe that'll even be 32°C. UN Secretary General Guterres therefore referred to the new IPCC report as a catalogue of hollow climate promises from world leaders, who are setting us on our way to an unliving earth. The people in India and Pakistan already know very well what that feels like. So the IPCC report came up with an unmistakable message. Global emissions should peak by 2025, halve by 2030 and be reduced to zero by the middle of the century. To achieve this, we immediately need strong emission reductions in all sectors and all countries must review their emission and climate targets against COP27. The good news is that the know-how and the tools are known for that. There is also enough money in the world to achieve the goals. Only the policy of achieving that is still lacking. Madam Minister, will you ensure that Belgium strengthens its climate objectives against COP27? What will you do to strengthen the investment rate in the climate transition, as the IPCC says it should be three to six times higher by 2030? What will Belgium do to help close the investment gap with the South? Finally, how will you achieve the coordinated policy packages at all levels of the economy, which the IPCC considers necessary for systemic change?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u3	Mr Senesael apologized for his question No. 55027615C.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u4	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the latest part of the IPCC report offers some interesting insights, positive but also a large number of negative ones. Let me get this straight. We know that CO2 emissions should peak by 2025 at the latest and then decrease. However, the report states that the prospects do not appear to be so hopeful. The current climate plans are too little, too late. Glasgow has led to more climate ambition in many countries, but according to the report it is not enough to make a real difference. The exit from fossil fuels is therefore more urgent than ever before. The war in Ukraine is a huge opportunity to accelerate our gas and oil needs. We must push ahead now, simply changing importers is not the answer to the crisis. So much for the bad news. The good news is that sustainable solutions, according to the report, are becoming cheaper and cheaper. The cost of producing renewable energy is falling and specialists calculated that the reduction of warming to less than 2°C is now economically more than it costs. I repeat, it's more than it costs. Cost of less than $100 per tonne of CO2 emissions, the roll-out of solar energy, improving energy efficiency, reducing deforestation, maintaining carbon in soil and reducing methane emissions, that is the package that will allow us to halve emissions by 2030. We can further reduce our energy consumption while our standard of living increases, as the report teaches us. In short, there is a lot of work to be done. The phase of making plans and reports may be completed, it is time for action. That is what our group has been saying for a long time. That's what the climate generation is asking us, and that's what the planet's asking us. Madam Secretary, what lessons do you draw from the third part of this IPCC report and which of them will you start working on right away? What efforts will the government make to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u5	Mr President, I would like to join in the topical and urgent debate. I'd like to hear you say it, Mrs Buyst. The package before us will allow us to halve emissions by 2030, but I do not know who that message is for. I assume that it is intended primarily for the other continents on this planet, because the Minister has undoubtedly taken note of the news that is prominent today. Over the past five years, it has been said that the risk that the limit of 1.5°C of warming would be reached in the following years was 10%. Now it is said that in the years before 2027 the earth has been warmer for at least one year. The probability of this has increased to 48%. I'm afraid I can only confirm the bad news. Mitigation is one thing, but inevitably it will also take expensive adaptation if we want to live a little bit in reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u6	I too would like to join in the topical and urgent debate. We know that a lot of renewable energy efforts are being made and that we also want to strengthen and accelerate them, but that is not evident if we know that there are a lot of interconnections for the electricity grid. How do you view this problem? Is this acceleration also possible for a realistic implementation period? Colleagues have already referred to the new geopolitical situation. There is also the decision to decommission our nuclear park, although it is delayed. This means that we are sustaining our dependence on gas. There is also a desire to change energy supplies and switch from Russian gas to American shale gas. How do you feel about that? We would also like to replace Russian oil with oil from the Middle East. How can all these steps be effectively implemented in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to provide answers to things I have heard. Regrettably, the latest IPCC report is not a surprise. You picked her up, Madame de Laveleye. We know that we need to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 if we want to minimize the impacts of climate change. It is in this European objective that the federal government is part of it. Less than a year ago, I came, accompanied by my administration, to present and discuss with you the Belgian version of the transition scenarios towards climate neutrality. As you point out, the main avenues and solutions are known. It is now a matter of putting them into practice in a coherent and rapid manner. I am pleased that the report underlines the importance of both a comprehensive and coherent approach and the challenge of governance. This confirms the strategy I initiated. In order to increase the effectiveness of the federal government, we have, as you know, created a new framework for climate governance. I have involved my fellow ministers, who are competent for all matters that have anything to do with decarbonising our economy and society. We have adopted 36 roadmaps, all policies that contribute to reducing our country's greenhouse gas emissions. We have started rolling out the roadmaps and by September we will present a state of affairs. The roadmaps will then also form the basis for the discussions we will have with all stakeholders in the context of climate tables in the autumn of this year. The roadmaps will then be discussed, as well as their implementation and the additional measures to be taken by the federal government. This discussion should then serve as input for the federal contribution to the National Energy and Climate Plan, an updated draft of which should be submitted to the European Body by June 2023. The discussions will therefore take place in the context of the increased European climate ambition for 2030 and of the Fit for 55 package. Recent government decisions to accelerate the energy transition and increase our energy independence are part of this package of measures that must support decarbonization. The issue of energy mix does not interfere with the achievement of our 2030 targets. Electricity generation is part of the European Emissions Trading Scheme, which sets a ceiling for total CO2 emissions at European level. Therefore, whatever the choices made at Belgian level in this field, there will be no more CO2 in the atmosphere. On the other hand, it is clear that we must avoid any risk of lock-in in carbonised infrastructure. The construction of gas-fired power plants can therefore only be considered as an intermediate solution in connection with a massive renewable energy deployment strategy, and that is what we are planning. In the area of financing, the government is working on a policy of disinvestment of fossil fuels for the federal government and its institutions. In addition, Belgium has committed itself in Glasgow to ending any new direct public support for the fossil energy sector at international level by the end of 2022. Savings will also be mobilized in sustainable projects and investments in fossil fuels in the second and third pension pillars will be phased out. A Belgian sustainable financing strategy is being developed. It is based on two pillars: on the one hand, the federal government, as an investor, and on the other, the sustainability of the financial sector itself. I can tell you that the results are being announced earlier than expected. It'll be for the next parliamentary year. We are also mobilizing economic leverage through the Federal Circular Economy Plan or the Build Back Better Circular project as part of the Recovery Plan. COP 27 later in 2022 is indeed an important milestone at international level to take a new state of affairs and take steps in a multilateral context. Glasgow has already decided to set up a work programme to speed up mitigation. The scientific insights, including the 6th Climate Report of the IPCC*, should be taken into account during the interviews. Several countries need investment or other support to shape their development path in a way consistent with the Paris Agreement, which takes into account the scientific insights that we have at our disposal. Our country will continue to participate constructively in such talks. Finally, it is clear that the war in Ukraine is disrupting the energy landscape, at least in the short and medium term. As we try to emerge from a global health crisis whose consequences we have not yet finished suffering, we are hit hard by a major and unexpected increase in energy prices. However, this crisis must certainly not exclude us from climate goals. On the contrary, revealing our great dependence on fossil fuels, it must encourage us to accelerate the transition by developing renewable energies, but also by reducing our consumption. This sharp rise in prices is obviously not what we want. The transition will be accompanied by an increase in the prices of the most polluting energies for the benefit of the cleanest. But this increase must be accompanied and controlled and, above all, serve as an incentive for our long-term investment choices. It is in this perspective that the polluter pays principle and green taxation must be implemented and fossil fuel subsidies must be abandoned. The price increase we are currently seeing is being experienced. The amounts spent go to the exporting countries, instead of being used to finance the transition and support households with energy poverty and SMEs. We must therefore keep our heads cold and help urgently those who are hit hard by this inflation – what we have done. We must continue to monitor the situation closely and, at the same time, develop structural policies that allow us to free ourselves from fossil fuels and ensure that the transition is fair. In conclusion, I want to confirm here that our resilience lies as much in critical mitigation as in adaptation. Both are based on a wide range of actions ranging from gradual or ad hoc adjustment to structural transformations that make the system bifurcate by addressing the root causes of vulnerability and exposure. Mitigation and adaptation are complementary. If, for a long time, the latter has been seen as a palliative solution to the failures of the former, these two aspects of climate action are now neither substitutable nor subordinated, if only because it is already necessary to adapt to the effects of climate change. Be aware that we are working to complete a coherent set of federal adaptation measures, which will then be submitted to public consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u8	Minister, thank you for your full answer. You may feel like you're always saying the same thing, but I think you have to keep saying it. The current trajectory is untenable. We know that half of the world's population already lives in situations of climate stress at the limit of the bearable and that this will only worsen. Staying below the two-degree mark must remain our absolute goal. I'm a little worried because, more and more, we hear it's screwed, we won't make it. But we, the women and politicians present here, cannot afford to go on the slope of defeatism. It is our primary responsibility to keep this course and turn it into a reality. In this room as well as outside, some look away from home. Why should Belgium make efforts while China, Saudi Arabia... It is the role of the United Nations to push everyone and, in international debates, Belgium has always lived up to ambitions. There is also the question of whether it is only possible. Aren't we going to go from one poison to another? Yes, that's possible. As you said, your administration has been working on scenarios. They were presented here in committee a year ago, just after you arrived. So we know it's possible. That must be possible and we cannot afford to say that it is too complicated for us. You have recalled important elements on which you are working with your government, including climate governance. I think that this is an example that should lead to better governance at the national level. We work in the Inter-Parliamentary Commission on Climate. That will be one of the big challenges. I hope that our partners everywhere, in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels, and in this Parliament, will agree on objectives to move faster. Minister, I do not want to repeat everything you have said. We're waiting for green taxation. Watch out, time's passing! We don't really have time anymore. We are waiting for a strategy of disinvestment in fossil fuels. You said we're working on it. We now need results very quickly. I therefore ask you to convey this message to your majority partners and colleagues at the national level. In two years' time, it's the election. We want results first! Climate change is not waiting. I believe that this remains the major crisis we are facing. I regret that this is not taken seriously enough by some in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer, which is a great voluntarism for which I thank you, especially when it comes to speeding up the energy transition with the new federal plan that you mentioned. I thank you for that, because it is true that unfortunately we are at the foot of the wall. This was underlined by this famous IPCC report, but also by the war with Russia, which finally highlighted our total dependence on this country, both for gas and oil. Finally, it is a diplomatic nonsense. We know today. But it's also a climate nonsense. I thank you, therefore, for pointing out this. I believe that this war in Ukraine should be seen as an opportunity to accelerate our efforts in this area. At European level, we should go further towards building a common market for renewable energy. I find that there is not enough emphasis on the need to get renewable energies where they are: the sun in the South, the wind in the North. We must make sure that we move towards something that gives meaning to the European project. This would allow, as I said, to pool our energies, our efforts and our research. There is also all that remains about climate policy, and I think that here too we need to support good behaviour more. It should be recalled that we have a political responsibility but also highlight good individual behaviour. I am thinking of food, of reducing meat food, of more isolation of buildings and of putting more emphasis on what exists in this area to support households. We know how necessary it is today. There is also a need to better frame telework and further reduce food waste. That is why I believe that our ambitions must be pursued with your colleagues who do not necessarily have the climate in their responsibilities but who have important levers. I must also highlight the financial incentives for soft mobility. In this, and on this subject I am disappointed that I did not hear you, your government has decided to green the company cars. But these company cars will need energy. The IPCC stressed the need to reduce our energy consumption. For me, there is a nonsense that will have to be resolved at some point. We cannot wait, as we have said, for 2030 to do so. For the rest, I encourage you in your efforts and I also encourage you to alert your colleagues in this government and your counterparts in the federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u10	Madam Secretary, if I understand correctly, you do not intend to take any additional action on top of what you had already planned. I think that's a striking observation. Do you now conclude that you are doing well with your policy or not? I can't get it all out of you, but you're obviously pleased that the IPCC report now includes a chapter on the impact of behavior change and fully subscribes to the logic that fossil energy must be expensive in order to encourage a transition. However, there is a major problem with this: without levers from the government, we are not talking about anti-social ecotaxes. On the contrary, the government must help them with massive public investment in the renovation of houses, renewable energy and a performance and affordable public transport, but we do not see that at the moment. You've set up federal governance, but that's not gonna get us there. We need Belgian governance. You can't keep moaning in the margins of the federal corner. It's a life-threatening crisis. For the corona crisis, the federal level has also taken control. Why shouldn't that be possible before the climate crisis? We now need a firm policy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to zero as quickly as possible. The IPCC was clear: the decisions we are making now can ensure a viable future. We know what to do, we know how to do it, and it is now up to us to take action.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u11	Madam Minister, a two-minute speaking time is short to replicate on such an important subject, but I will try. I would also like to refer to the report of the World Meteorological Organisation which was published today in the press. That report shows that there is a good chance that within this and four years a warmest year will be measured. The previous one dates back to 2016 and apparently there is a good chance that this will happen again within this and four years. I quote that because it is very concrete. I have to put that message next to a report that appeared in the press two days ago about a poll into the climate sensitivity of the Flame. According to that poll, the Fleming is concerned about the climate, but the willingness to do something about it is a lot smaller. I believe that this is because we need to make the impact of this climate crisis on the lives of ordinary people much more concrete. For a moment I would like to go back to a previous speaker's statement. Climate warming can be compared to a bathtub in which all CO2 taps are open, one crane is already a bit bigger than the other. Every crane that we turn off, in our country or in another country, causes the bathtub to overflow slightly less quickly. So yes, Belgium will have to take responsibility. Also abroad, other continents, but also Belgium and Europe. I support Mrs Daems when she says that it must be a system change. There are a lot of levers, such as mobility, energy and taxation. No leverage will change global warming alone. As a minister, I think you are encouraging your fellow ministers to take action. That is the merit of your policy, not easy, but you do it. You're going after the ministers so they can do what they need to do. The most ecological choice must simply become the most logical choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u12	Minister, my question concerns the increase in the price of sunflower oil and its use in biofuels. As you know, 35-45% of sunflower seeds imported into Europe come from Ukraine and a smaller proportion is imported from Russia. Oil produced from these seeds is already the subject of very active speculation, so prices rise very sharply. Yet this oil is part of a large amount of food that we all consume. This oil is also being used as a biofuel, and it is on this point that I would like to draw your attention, Madam Minister. Indeed, if we are to protect consumers from an increase in the prices of their food products because of the rising price of sunflower oil, can we not allow some of the sunflower seeds that were planned for biofuel to be redirected to food? Madam Minister, should we not, until the market stabilizes again, prevent sunflower oil from being used in biofuels in order to keep it for food? Thank you for your answer to this question, which was initially addressed to Mr Clarinval.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u13	Madam Minister, the war in Ukraine has a major impact on global production and availability for the world market in cereals and vegetable oil. It was hoped that the cereal deficit would still be contained with extra grain exports from India, but at least half of the harvest will now be lost because of the extreme heat wave. For vegetable oil, the market is mainly dependent on the hugely polluting palm oil, but this possibility is now limited by Indonesia's setting up an export ban to protect its own population from the high prices of baking oil. Do you think that in this context of food scarcity, exploding food prices and consequently also a massive increase in food insecurity and the risk of famine still justify the fact that Belgium uses one billion litres of biofuel based on agricultural crops for transport every year? Moreover, do you think it is acceptable that Belgian motorists, in a context of very high prices at the pump, also have to pay extra 10% of biofuel, the production cost of which is four to five times higher than that of fossil fuel and which, moreover, often emit more than fossil diesel or petrol? Following the publication of the fourth evaluation of the Belgian biofuels policy by a coalition of NGOs, you insisted in a press release on the complete phasing-out of first generation biofuels. When's that phase-out ring due? What progress has been made with the negotiations within the government? What level of ambition can we expect?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u14	Mr Verduyckt informs me that he has been held back in another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u15	Madam President, Mr Vicar, Mrs Daems, the war in Ukraine has a major impact on the world markets for food commodities such as cereals. This is, above all, a challenge in terms of supply chain interruptions and price increases. The duration of the war in Ukraine and other major challenges, such as extreme weather conditions in various countries of the world, can create shortages. Many of these raw materials, including sunflower oil you mentioned, are used in the food industry. They are also a raw material from which biofuels are produced. The consequences of the war in terms of rising commodity prices on world markets, in my view, highlight an economic and environmental heresy. Indeed, the use of raw materials that can be used as food for the production of biofuels is a practice that has become more ethically unacceptable than ever. First of all, we must put an end to public support for such practices. I therefore call for a general ban on the use of biofuels based on raw materials that can also be used for food purposes in order to achieve our European renewable energy targets in fossil fuels for the transport sector. The transposition of the RED II Directive is a concrete lever for the government to take steps in this direction. Such an initiative would indeed, according to studies, also have a positive impact on the price at the pump for the consumer. Negotiations at federal level are under the direction of Minister Van der Straeten. There is already a political agreement on the phasing-out of palm and soya oil. As far as I am concerned, this must be implemented by a general exclusion of the first generation of biofuels from the obligation to mix. I invite you to address you to Minister Van der Straeten for more information about the process. I've already made myself clear about my ambition. The preparations are made for the implementation of the biennial evaluation as foreseen in the National Energy and Climate Plan. The consumption of biofuel based on sunflower oil in Belgium is very limited. By 2021, this consumption was only about 700 m3 on a total biofuel consumption of more than 1 million m3. This represents a share of less than 0.1%. By 2022, to date, biofuels based on sunflower seeds have not even been consumed in Belgium. It is clear that the market is already moving towards biofuels based on raw materials other than sunflower oil.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answers. That's good news because we know we don't use sunflower oil in our fuels. This is less good news as we lose a possible steering wheel to close a tap, but it's still good news in the end. You're telling me that Mrs. Van der Straeten is working on the file and that reassures me because I know that when a case is in her hands, it moves forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u17	For us, biofuels based on all agricultural crops, not just of the first generation and certainly not just of food and fodder, must be phased out immediately. In a context of global food insecurity, it is no longer justified to sacrifice agricultural land to a crop for biofuels. You must now intervene and move away from biofuels in the transport sector. Biofuels are a false climate solution and lead to social and economic damage. Let us not dwell on the many human rights violations in the production chain. So that really has to stop. You also repeat what you said earlier in your press release. You insist on the complete phasing-out of first generation biofuels. However, you do not answer my question as to how far the negotiations are going to be in the government and what the ambitions are. Even if you are not in charge of the negotiations, you must have an idea. I am therefore counting on you to implement the rapid phasing-out and that your plea does not remain empty like last year's in relation to the exclusion of soya and palm oil. I urge you to take action.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u18	Mr Verduyckt is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u19	Madam Minister, the Member States of Europe have set a threshold of 10% for the reduction of honeybees colonies. In other words, one takes peace with 10% mortality in honeybees after winter. For bumblebees and solitary bees, wild pollinators, the European Commission proposes not to set a threshold. We're worried about that. If we do not set a threshold, then we cannot say in the decisions on pesticides that we will contribute to a reduction in bee mortality. The scientists say that we must strive for a maximum reduction of 3%. I hope you will agree with me that we should actually aim at 0 %, because we need all the bees. A meeting is scheduled for next week, on 17 and 18 May. Last week I asked your colleague, Minister Clarinval, about Belgium's position there. I particularly hope that you, as Minister for Biodiversity, are involved in this and that you can give me your position on this. What scientific arguments do you put forward to fight for the lowest possible mortality in wild bees?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u20	Indeed, Mrs Creemers, the dossier on the level of exposure of wild bees to pesticides falls within the competence of Minister Clarinval. However, the dossier is directly related to the protection of biodiversity and the environment. That is why I pay particular attention to it, together with my administration. I fully share your concerns about the decline of our wild bees and other pollinators, as they are indispensable for sustainable food production and as they form the basis of many ecosystems. The situation of wild bees is indeed worrying. Of the 381 known species of wild bees, more than a third of them have disappeared today, due to the use of pesticides, the transmission of pathogens, the destruction of their habitat and climate change. There is therefore an urgent need to prevent the massive mortality of pollinators. The Belgian National Strategy on pollinators 2021-2030, which was adopted by the Interministerial Conference on the Environment at the end of 2021, extended with Agriculture and Science Policy, provided a solid basis. With the federal levers, we can contribute to the development of pollinator and biodiversity-friendly agriculture. Cooperation both in the federal government and with the regions, with the other European Member States and with the European Commission, is the key to the best possible protection of wild bees. When my administration is consulted by the expert groups, to which Minister Clarinval referred in his reply, it will actively contribute to the highest possible level of protection based on the best scientific data. We will, of course, apply the precautionary principle. Finally, I would like to see the protocol for consultation between Agriculture and Health on certain dossiers, such as the dossier in question, extended to the environment, in accordance with the One Health Action Plan. The protocol was drawn up when environmental competence did not exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u21	Madam Minister, I fully agree with that last point. When we take the title of the One Health Action Plan literally and seriously, you should certainly be involved in such dossiers. Minister Clarinval replied to my great relief that he will not take a stand next week and will not defend a percentage, but that he will ask for more scientific research. It is at that point that you can be involved and you can wring in between. For biodiversity reasons, the survival of wild bees is absolutely important. By the way, we have recently seen good examples of gardens with bee and insect hotels and there are a lot of opportunities to work on them together with private individuals. So I am counting on you to join us in pushing for scientific research and the funds for it, so that, on the basis of many objective data, we will see that we have to set a zero rate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u22	Madam Minister, a number of issues have already been discussed in the topical debate, but everything is tied together. A little less than a month ago, a number of EU Member States led by Denmark advocated a faster and more vigorous climate action, in the light of Russian fossil fuel independence as soon as possible. The signatories agreed and felt that negotiations on Fit for 55 should be speeded up. However, the various authorities within this country apparently failed to adopt a common position within the Directorate-General for European Affairs and Coordination. The text was therefore not signed by Belgium. We know that the Flemish government remains critical of a number of elements in the Fit for 55 package, including the extension of emissions trading, ETS, to buildings and transport, which would cause some damaging effects on the energy bill. We are then in the old debate Khattabi versus Demir about the expectations around the climate bonus. Would it benefit the socially weaker citizen or not? The Flemish government fears that the objectives of a number of Fit for 55 elements go against certain commitments from the Flemish climate plan. According to reports, you would not initially have started the coordination procedure with your Flemish colleague. Is that right? Can you give us a more detailed explanation? Eventually, the coordination procedure was launched in the afternoon of 7 April, but no agreement was apparently reached. Can you explain the arguments of the various parties in the Directorate-General?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u23	Madam Secretary, my question is on the same subject. The war in Ukraine has sharpened the European dependence on Russian fossil fuels. We have known for a long time that investing in renewable energy helps us in the fight against the climate crisis. As Mr Ravyts said, 11 EU countries have jointly called for energy independence to be accelerated and for climate ambition to be increased. These countries, led by Denmark, advocate more climate ambition and less fossil fuels. I had hoped that Belgium would join that list of countries, but apparently that is not happening so far. It is striking that a party in the Flemish government prefers to make tough statements in the press rather than opting for the necessary steps forward. That was the reason for me to find out what is going on with this and to see how we can make a clear choice for Russia's independence in fossil fuels. Madam Secretary, is it true that our country could not sign the call because Flanders blocked it? If so, what arguments were put forward? Why do you think it's important to sign that call? In what way, despite the obstruction of the Flemish Government, are you still trying to show more climate ambition for our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u24	Indeed, the silence procedure launched by the Directorate-General for European Affairs and Coordination to sign the declaration of acceleration of climate ambitions was broken by Mrs Demir's cabinet. The letter from the Danes went as follows: "In the aftermath of the Russian invasion in Ukraine, the world is confronted with a new geopolitical reality. The EU has demonstrated historical unity and has acted decisively in response to Russia's aggressive behaviour. We must continue to show the same unity and determination to become independent of Russian fossil fuels as soon as possible by accelerating the transition to climate neutrality in the EU. Now it is time to be brave and determined to move forward with the green transition. Any delay or hesitation will only prolong our energy dependence." This also sums up the tone and content of the letter. By using less gas, we no longer finance the Russian regime. Climate policy is an ideal lever for reduced use. At the same time, it ensures that we monitor the economic opportunities and social justice of the transition. I was therefore shocked to learn that my Flemish colleague does not want to sign. We heard the reasons through the press. Minister Demir endorsed the European Commission's proposal on a new ETS and the demand to become climate neutral by 2050. However, both things are not literally in the text of the Danes. In fact, countries such as Ireland have signed the Danes' declaration, although they have the same questions as the Flemish Region. I am very sorry that Belgium has not been able to agree to this declaration. It's a message that the federal government fully supports. If Belgium is asked to support such a declaration, there are formal coordination procedures for submitting the matter to all the governments involved, not just the Flemish. It is not true that I would not have started this procedure in good time. On 29 March Denmark sent the declaration at administrative level to the Member States of the Green World Group, requesting that it be made known by 31 March at the latest whether they wished to sign the declaration. My administration, observing the pilotship of the CCIM ad hoc Green World Group, immediately delivered this statement to the Directorate-General for European Affairs and Coordination of the Foreign Affairs Office, requesting that the formal procedure be initiated for the signing of the declaration by Belgium. It seems, however, that the Foreign Affairs Committee did not consider it appropriate to submit the declaration for approval, as it was expected to be condemned. In the light of the recent experience with the blocking by the Flemish Government of the signing of such statements by Belgium, the choice of this department may be somewhat understandable, but I nevertheless deeply regret that it does not confront politicians with their political responsibility. The CCIM working group, and hence the Flemish administration, was informed on 30 March of the Danish proposal for a declaration and the choice not to initiate a DGE procedure. It was only when my policy cell, together with some other policy cells, had called for this, that the formal approval procedure was launched by the Foreign Affairs Committee on 7 April. The Flemish Region reported on 8 April that there was no position and mandate within the Flemish Government to endorse the declaration, and wished to adapt the text to meet its concerns. However, the statement had already been published and adjustments were no longer possible. In fact, all those involved had been informed in advance of this. The Flemish government did not share the same opinion with the other partners within Belgium about what concerns there were. The Flemish minister for Environment sent another Facebook post to the world to justify the Flemish refusal. However, as I have already said, the reasons cited in this report were not based on a correct reading of the statement. Firstly, it did not agree to the accelerated introduction of all the measures in the Fit for 55 package. The declaration merely states that negotiations must speed up, not the introduction of measures. Secondly, it made it appear that the text dealt with the proposed ETS for buildings and road transport and also reiterated the unsophisticated interpretation that this would only increase people's invoices. However, the statement merely states that a strong ETS, a combination of ambitious sectoral measures and standards, is a cornerstone of the Fit for 55 package, without explicitly referring to emissions trading for buildings and road transport, on which there are also different views in the group of signatory countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u25	Madam Minister, thank you for your very detailed and accurate reply. It's a sad thing, of course. It is perhaps the first time that we have seen very concrete work in the Directorate-General. It is very strange that the Foreign Office has not forwarded this information. Madam Secretary, your administration has acted correctly in terms of procedure. In the coming months, we will see a permanent "fight" between you and Mrs Demir on some of the elements of the Fit-for-55 package, including the expansion of the ETS, which the federal government is also concerned about. By the way, you yourself expressed this in June 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u26	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. Like you, I find it regrettable that we have not been able to join because of the refusal of one region. I do not understand how anyone can be against an acceleration of less fossil fuels in the European Union and thus against more climate ambition, which is only a win-win situation. The arguments put forward by Minister Demir are weak in my view. We, ecologists, advocate a balance in human and planet life together, but also in human-human life. That is why we are explicitly in favour of a social climate ambition. That's something you want to cooperate with. I therefore call on Minister Demir and the Flemish Government to be courageous, to work together and not to make tough statements in the press or on Facebook, but to make a clear choice for faster independence towards Russia.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u27	On her question, Question No 4 will be answered as follows: 55026789C by Mrs Depoorter converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u28	Madam Minister, we will discuss the social climate ambition, namely the creation of a social climate fund. The European Commission wishes to address the social consequences of emissions trading in the buildings and road transport sectors through a proposal for a regulation establishing that climate fund for the period 2025 to 2032. It does refer very clearly to the extension of ETS. At the European Environment Council on 17 March, I think you have already had an exchange of views on the issue of an emissions trading scheme for the road transport and buildings sectors, in particular on the effectiveness of the proposed instrument for reducing emissions with a view to achieving the target of 20 per cent by 2030. Ministers presented options and key parameters which they considered most relevant to improve the social acceptance of such a scheme while ensuring its effectiveness, as well as some possible alternatives. There was no unanimity, however. With regard to the European Council, the French Presidency aims to position the EU Member States by June at the latest. This means that Member States will have until June to influence the position of the European Council, prior to the trialogue negotiations with the European Parliament and the European Commission. What is the Belgian position on the European Council's position? Secondly, a majority in the European Parliament is proposing to make social climate plans and related measures more targeted, with measurement and monitoring considered essential. The report by the committee responsible in the European Parliament also shows that the fund is to be increased proportionally when carbon prices rise. What is also very important is to recommend that the implementation date be brought forward one year, that investment cycles be set in motion and that vulnerable citizens benefit from the fund as soon as possible. We are also talking about the climate bonus and the 'polluter pays' principle. The report was due to be voted in the European Parliament this week. What is your attitude towards these substantive remarks made by the majority of Members of the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u29	Mr Ravyts, Belgium does not currently have a final position on the emissions trading system for the transport and buildings sector, which unfortunately prevents us from contributing to the substantive discussions on the modalities of such a system. However, regardless of the policy mix that will eventually be introduced, we stress the importance of a just transition. Particular attention will be paid to the impact on employment, consumer purchasing power and business competitiveness, as well as to the fight against energy and transport poverty. It is important that carbon prices, through the ETS BRT, are the most cost-effective tool for reducing emissions in the buildings and transport sector and should therefore play a central role, supported by complementary measures, in a well thought-out and optimal climate policy. Trying to achieve our goals through only other measures, such as introducing standards and standards, would entail higher costs, with greater social impacts, and there would be no carbon price revenue, which would allow for progressive redistribution effects. Belgium considers that the establishment of the Social Climate Fund cannot be separated from the discussions on the creation of an ETS BRT. Without ETS BRT, there are no carbon price revenues to redistribute. The way carbon price revenues are distributed is essential. Both my administration and the Commission's analyses show that redistribution can lead to progressive income effects and overcompensate the most vulnerable. When the ETS BRT is introduced, adequate tools should therefore be provided to mitigate the impact of the system on the most vulnerable in society, to facilitate an inclusive green transition and to operationalise the leave no one behind principle. The Social Climate Fund can play a role in this. Belgium insists on inclusiveness, taking into account gender, single-parent families, where women are the main head of family, child poverty and people with disabilities. Moreover, Belgium is in favour of compensations that would not undermine the price signal from the implementation of a carbon price. As far as your second question is concerned, I would like to stress that the governance and performance-based components of the Social Climate Fund are, for me, essential elements of the proposal. I therefore support the fact that obtaining funds from the Fund depends on achieving targets and milestones set out in the national social climate plans. I strongly encourage solidarity to be embedded in a socially just climate policy framework, ensuring that funds are used to promote the equitable transition to climate neutrality. Finally, it is important for the federal government that all income from the ETS BRT should be returned to Member States and fully benefit households and SMEs. If the carbon price rises, we do not want this additional revenue to flow into the EU budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u30	Thank you for your detailed answer. As far as the last element is concerned, of course I agree with you. After all, there is a great deal of concern. I think that in the coming months, some water will have to flow to the sea in order to implement the European regulation establishing the Social Climate Fund. I have a feeling that in your answer you will stick to some generalities such as the appropriate tools, the leave no-one behind-prinicipe and inclusiveness. You also continue to swear by the carbon price as the most probate agent. We will await the negotiations within Europe. I can assure you, however, that this has not been addressed in your reply, and that half will have to be paid by the Member State itself. The Climate Fund will therefore also have to be co-financed by the Member State.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u31	Madam Minister, on Thursday 24 March 2022, the Court unanimously approved the proposal for a resolution banning the import of game trophies of certain species. The resolution seeks to ban the introduction of game trophies from certain African animals. The competent Belgian authority, the CITES cell of the FPS Public Health, which regulates the import of hunting trophies, finds a ban unnecessary and counterproductive. According to the service, a ban would be mainly symbolic and would not have a positive effect on the protection of wild species, which should be the driving force of all of us. I voted in favour of the resolution because I know that a rational debate on the subject is extremely difficult. However, it is rather painful that several organisations working on nature management have criticised the resolution in recent weeks. They actually did so with the same arguments as the one that the CITES cell formulated last year. Sustainable hunting has caused the population of the species that has increased over the past decades. However, that is a wells-nothing game: according to some, that is not the case, according to others. Trophy hunting can even be useful for some if it is regulated on the basis of scientifically substantiated quotas. That was the situation, Madam Secretary. What is your view on the requesting part of the resolution? Are you still talking to the CITES cell about this? What timetable do you use?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u32	Mr Ravyts, I have taken note of the resolution and noted that the subject was discussed in detail in Parliament and that the resolution was adopted unanimously. I'm on the same page as the resolution. That is why I asked my administration for an analysis of the legal possibilities for implementing the resolution. This analysis shows that there are different possibilities, but that these are linked to scientific, legal and time-related aspects. My cabinet and my administration will soon discuss the various possibilities in detail together, after which I will determine the next steps. Please also note that a review of the EU Action Plan against Wildlife Trafficking is under way at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u33	It's not that simple, I understand. That's what I was expecting. I remember the President's laconical commentary on the resolution at issue. There are many legal aspects to this. I am particularly interested in the outcome of your consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u34	Madam Minister, the European Commission proposes a number of amendments to the ETS Directive in the package of 14 July 2021. For example, it aims to reduce emissions from the current EU ETS sectors by 61% by 2030 compared to 2005. Now it's about minus 43%. This represents a stronger annual emission reduction of 4.2% instead of 2.2%. This would reduce the total number of allowances in circulation at an increased rate. The Commission's aim is to bring about an increase in the price of allowances and thus to give a stronger price signal to companies to innovate and invest in technologies that emit less carbon dioxide. The amendment would be accompanied by a one-off reduction in the emission ceiling by a certain quantity of allowances, but that still needs to be defined. I share the views of my N-VA colleagues on this matter and I am the spokesman for it. Market prices for CO2 doubled last year, including by removing part of the rights from the market and placing them in a market stability reserve. A majority in the competent committee in the European Parliament even wants the free allowances to be removed from the electricity sector and waste incineration to be added to the ETS in the long term. Here too, the vote in the European Parliament is very soon to take place. It is constantly said that the world has changed. In the current context of pan-swing energy prices, shouldn't more CO2 rights be made available to the market, so that less is passed on?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u35	With your question of whether, in the current context of pan-swing energy prices, more CO2 rights should not be made available to the market, you are addressing a very topical issue that is receiving a lot of attention in the light of the forthcoming reform of the European ETS Directive. Your question focuses on the use of electricity. This represents only about 18% of our final energy consumption in Belgium. Almost 75% of our final energy consumption consists of the direct use of fossil fuels without conversion to electricity, for example for industrial processes, heating or transport in combustion engines. The market price for electricity is determined by the last production plant to be switched on to meet demand, the marginal power station. Often that's a gas plant. The price of natural gas has gone through the war in Ukraine and this continues in the electricity price that companies and families pay. The high gas price makes it more attractive in a number of Member States to use coal for electricity production. Coal emits about twice as much CO2 per kilowatt-hour of electricity produced. This brings with it increased demand for allowances. Together with other elements that affect the ETS market, this will now come at a price of EUR 88 per tonne. Compared to recent years, the ETS price is very high, but its share of the electricity price needs to be reduced. In wholesale prices, the CO2 price is still only around 15% of the electricity price. Compared to May last year, wholesale gas prices almost doubled, while they almost doubled for CO2. The electricity price increases are therefore mainly due to the gas price. The impact of the CO2 price is much more limited. So we need to focus first on the main cause, the rising gas price and how it is passed on in the market price. Does the market price determined by the marginal power plant reflect the cost of production of electricity by all producers? After all, offshore wind farms, nuclear power stations, sun roofs and onshore wind turbines have already been built and their cost structure hardly changes, while the higher price for their electricity makes them more profitable. The market design, with price fixing by the marginal power station, allows those power stations to earn interest and thus to cover their investment costs. However, in the current situation, it appears that several producers have made significant excess profits. This debate is being opened, including at European level, and I think it is useful to conduct it. The question of whether more CO2 duties can be made available to reduce the price, apart from the fact that their impact on that price is limited, raises a fundamental objection. If more rights are placed on the market, this will lead to more emissions. You seem to forget it in your question, but the whole system is designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in our atmosphere. The latest IPCC publication reminds us that global emissions should stabilise by 2025 in order to remain below 1.5 or 2°C. In this context, there is no room for additional emissions. In the European Union, we wish to play a leading role and have jointly democratically decided and anchored in the European Climate Law that we will commit ourselves to reducing European net emissions to zero by 2050 and to achieve a binding net greenhouse gas reduction of at least 55% compared to 1990 by 2030. The European Commission formulated its proposal on the allocation of the -55 % target between the ETS sector and the other sectors based on advanced modelling, using cost efficiency as a guiding principle. If we stick to the proposed distribution of the objective between the sectors, additional allowances could be introduced into the ETS, for example by releasing rights included in the market stability reserve. However, do you think that historically unused EU allowances, derived from lower-than-expected economic activity, such as the 2009 recession item, or international emission credits of questionable quality, can infinitely be used to deploy them later? Will we allow this to happen to trading partners outside the Union, which have historically emitted much less? In my opinion, the atmosphere no longer has that space. I shall now turn to the other elements which influence the market price. If the figures are taken into account, it should be noted that there was no shortage of duties on the market in 2021 compared to the surrender obligations. Emissions were 14% lower than the emission ceiling and the surplus on the market grew to 1.2 billion duties. This surplus was recognised as a major problem in 2015, on the one hand, for the functioning of the market and on the other hand, in order to respect future objectives. This led the 28 Member States to create an instrument to clear some of the excess duties, namely the Market Stability Reserve. The MSR has a stabilising effect by regulating the supply to create a stable market, by including rights from the surplus or by releasing rights in the event of a deficit. It is precisely the MSR that will ensure that the surplus is reduced. The functioning of the MSR has already been included in the price and provides only a sufficient supply of allowances. As I said earlier, the price increase in the ETS market is primarily due to international energy prices, in particular gas prices, and is therefore not due to the functioning of the MSR. Others point to speculation, but a comprehensive report by the European Securities and Market Authority at the request of the European Council does not find any indication of this. In other words, we need to reform the ETS very carefully and carefully, balancing many aspects, such as the risk of carbon leakage, avoiding unnecessary volatility, the importance of environmental integrity and investment security. In any case, what we want to avoid is that, by intervening in the market, by bringing additional rights into the system, we would reward the laggards and penalise those who have invested in the transition by reducing their investment cost. This brings me to a much more logical and simpler way to reduce the energy bill, namely investing in own production, efficient equipment and lower consumption. From the federal government, we have already taken advantage of this at any time, with the use of funds in the relay plan, the measures in the energy agreement such as the VAT reduction for solar panels and so on. In addition, we are also encouraging the regions to make maximum use of their revenues from allowances. After all, the money is not gone, but comes back to the governments, which have to use it for climate policy. That is a European obligation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u36	Madam Minister, thank you for the very comprehensive answer. I would also like to thank your cabinet, which has long and wide-rangingly prepared its position on the whole European ETS story in the context of current events. It is true that the share of the increased CO2 price should be approached in a nuanced manner. Mr President, thanks to your insistence, there is another round this afternoon on the European market design which Mrs Khattabi cited. I am thinking of Professor Schoors who will share his concerns and insights with us this afternoon. Madam Secretary, I will carefully read your comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u37	Madam Secretary, you know that I am following you and Mrs Van der Straeten very closely. Your range is always interesting. There is a lot to learn from that. In recent weeks, for example, you have also been active around the chemical products that are being marketed. The European Union prohibits the placing on the market of certain dangerous chemicals. However, each Member State may freely decide on the production of these substances for export outside the EU. Belgium is one of the European countries with the largest exports of banned chemicals outside the EU. The European Commission is aware of this paradox and has indicated in the conclusions of its European strategy for sustainable chemicals that it will address this problem. However, there are no concrete proposals, and I understand your impatience. You have asked your administration to investigate the legal feasibility of adopting a rule of law prohibiting the export of chemicals that are not allowed to be placed on the market or even used within the European Union. The conclusions of this study show that, as a Member State, you can do something at Belgian level. You will now want to work on a KB and an annex containing substances that should no longer be exported outside the EU. Another topic on which you were active is the so-called critical raw materials. You seem to have a cooperation with the Netherlands to better map the incoming and outgoing raw materials in order to get an idea of the dependence of our economy on these raw materials. Could you explain your initiatives on these issues a little more? What's the timeline?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u38	Mr President, the roadmap presented by the European Commission contains a series of projects and intentions that were already being prepared by Member States or ECHA, the European Chemical Agency for the Commission. My administration is actively involved in the analysis of better risk management and in the provision to the European Agency of one RAD member, the Risk Analysis Committee and two members of the SEEC, the Socio-Economic Analysis Committee. The proposed introduction of the concept of "essential use" in the REACH Regulation, the content of which has not yet been presented to the Member States, should be published at the end of this year for possible entry into force between 2025 and 2027 at the earliest. Following the legal study on the legislative options for banning the implementation of chemical products, which are already strictly prohibited on European territory, I have indeed asked my administration to prepare a draft royal decree by the end of May 2022. The text will, of course, follow the procedure and consultation laid down by the Product Standards Act. I have agreed with the Dutch Secretary of State for the Environment, Viviane Heijnen, to increase cooperation between Belgian and Dutch administrations, to take initiatives to promote the circular economy and to build knowledge about and anticipate resource shortages that can occur in the short and long term. We have committed ourselves to addressing the importance of the circular economy and reducing commodity dependence in European and international fora. For Mr Senesael's question on PFAS in food packaging, I would refer it to my fellow Members, Messrs. Clarinval and Vandenbroucke, who have health and food in their skills.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u39	Thank you, Madam Secretary. As far as dangerous products are concerned, therefore, you refer to the draft royal decree to be submitted to procedure by the end of this month. The procedure is known, through the Product Standards Act. I assume that the sector will also show commitment. I wonder what the reaction will be. Of course, we share the importance of circular economy. Any cooperation with the Netherlands can indeed help things further forward. We'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u40	Madam Minister, of course you were the competent minister last week at the symposium on 25 years of federal policy and legislation. Sustainable development objectives must become the compass of policy, as we already knew. I shall confine myself to a number of politically hot issues that you have touched in your intervention. A possible adaptation of the Article 7a of the Constitution, which has been declared subject to revision, should stipulate that the various authorities must take sustainable development into account in the exercise of their powers. The Vivaldire agreement states that the aim of this update of the article is to place more emphasis on a fair transition to a climate-neutral society, on circular economy and on ending biodiversity loss. In this context, you would examine with the regional governments how the federal government and the Länder can achieve greater cooperation and coordination on climate change. The intention is to lay the basis for a cooperation agreement or a special interfederal climate law through updates of Article 7a. The word has fallen. During the symposium, the federal framework was subject to an evaluation. We know the evaluation, we already knew it from the Court of Auditors' report. Perhaps a number of things were added at the symposium. The final conclusion is that we do not immediately appear on the road with this country to reach the SDGs by 2030. The lack of cooperation between the levels of government, even though the regional governments seem to show the legitimacy of the SDGs, remains a problem. Have there been any talks with the regional governments since you took office regarding the amendment of Article 7a of the Constitution? Could you report on this if necessary? Is the IMC Sustainable Development already coming back together as a consultative body? That was also one of the pain points in the Court of Auditors' report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u41	Article 7a is indeed the article of our Constitution that is open to revision. Following the government agreement, I am working on modernising this article, focusing on the fair transition to a climate-neutral society and the halting of biodiversity loss in order to come up with a proposal for adaptation. I have drawn up a clear timetable, in which we will work with the government's partners in the coming weeks on a proposal that will then be examined by the entities of our country. One part of this is the study of how the federal government and the Länder can achieve greater cooperation and better coordination, including in terms of climate while respecting their respective competences. In addition, I can also say that the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Sustainable Development has been re-launched and that it has reached its decisions on the same day as that of the Symposium, which, of course, can only benefit cooperation between the various entities. The main item on the agenda of that meeting was the concrete arrangements on the format of the Voluntary National Review, to be presented to the United Nations High-Level Political Forum in the spring of next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u42	Madam Secretary, you have once again paraphrased the passage in the coalition agreement. In the coming weeks, then, you will come forward with a concrete proposal, after majority consultation, which will be forwarded to the relevant regional governments. Together with you, I am pleased that an Inter-Ministerial Conference on Sustainable Development is already meeting to discuss and discuss a number of items on the agenda that are necessary at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u43	Madam Minister, on 1 April it was announced that one third of the European Innovation Fund's total grant pool would go to a project for carbon capture and carbon storage or CCS, carbon capture and storage, in the port of Antwerp. I was hoping it was a 1 April joke, because the Innovation Fund is intended to finance innovative projects in the fight against global warming. The CCS project actually does the opposite, because it keeps the fossil energy sector alive longer. Countries like Saudi Arabia have not just lobbied so fiercely to include CCS as a solution in the summary of policy makers of the latest IPCC report. It literally states, in black and white, that it is intended to keep the use of fossil fuels alive for longer and to reduce the risk of stranded assets. However, there is a much better way to avoid beached assets, namely removing investments from fossil energy and moving to renewable energy. That is a real solution for the climate, rather than the symptom control with CCS. The fact that so much money is being spent on such a CCS project therefore raises many questions. That money would be much better spent on real investments in transition. The Innovation Fund will also become much larger in the future thanks to the EU's planned ETS reforms. If all these investments go to such expensive projects to keep the use of fossil energy alive for longer, it seems to me to be a huge waste of money, while we need that money for real climate investment. What is your attitude towards CCS in the fight against global warming? Will Belgium argue for stricter criteria for the Innovation Fund, so that the money is spent on real climate solutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u44	Mrs Daems, it is true that the Kairos@C project will receive EUR 357 million from the European Commission from the Innovation Fund to capture CO2 from BASF's installations to then store it in empty gas fields. This is a decision of the European Commission. Since CO2 reduction in industry is a regional competence, I recommend that your colleagues in the regional parliaments question the relevant ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u45	Thank you for your answer, even though I find it disappointing. You must have an opinion on CCS in the fight against global warming. Despite the influence of lobbies for fossil fuels on the communication and the Summary for Policy Makers of the IPCC report, the message of the underlying scientific report is clear: we cannot rely on techno-fixes to save the climate. We need to get rid of fossil fuels as quickly as possible instead of relying on high-risk and expensive carbon capture and storage techniques, whose scaling-up potential is also far too limited. I'd like your opinion on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u46	Madam Minister, on 22 July last year I submitted a written question to the Minister for Energy to obtain figures on biofuels in Belgium in 2020. In this question, I asked for all sorts of figures: production figures, employment figures, turnover and profits of the Belgian biofuel industry in 2020. For that part of my question, however, she referred me to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Employment. Four months later, I finally received a reply from the Minister for Economics and Work, who referred me to you. Then I have addressed my question to you. You can imagine...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u47	That's really kafkaian. I understand you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u48	On 28 March you replied that I should address myself to Minister Dermagne or Minister Van der Straeten. The services have therefore forwarded my question to Minister Van der Straeten. I could expect an answer by 6 June at the latest. I submitted my question on 22 July last year. How can this happen? Why does this government do everything it can to avoid having to answer my questions about the Belgian biofuel industry? Why are you so afraid to provide that information? You are the Minister for Sustainable Development, a competence that still affects almost all policy areas. You could just answer my question, couldn't you? Even if your cabinet doesn't have those numbers, can't you get them from your colleagues? In short, I would like an answer to my question. I look forward to the clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u49	Mrs Daems, I regret that you have not yet received a full answer to all your questions concerning the production, turnover, employment and profits of the biofuels industry in Belgium. It's data that isn't in the hands of my administration. For a formal process such as the dialogue between myself and this chamber committee, I think it is important that my cabinet and my administration allow me to share with Parliament the information we have at our disposal. My transversal powers, such as those for Sustainable Development, do not so far allow me to direct and request information from all my colleagues' administrations. I hope you understand. Still, I want you to have all the information the federal government has in its hands. I will therefore urge my colleagues to reply as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic778x.u50	Madam Secretary, I think you understand where my frustration comes from. What has happened here with that written question is in fact too absurd for words. I really shouldn't be sent from the cabinet to the wall as a Member of Parliament. This also prevents me from performing my control function. I am therefore counting on this situation to cease to exist.
