ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u1	Minister, even though the question is already somewhat out of date, the subject remains useful. In mid-March, the federal government decided to take some provisional measures in view of the high energy, oil and fuel prices that we are still facing. For example, it released EUR 13 million to offset the planned increase in the area tariff for SNCB. This means that the government, as it were, pays the price increase to SNCB instead of the traveller. Minister De Sutter van Groen even suggested lowering the prices of public transport. To what extent does the 13 million euro cover the revenue from SNCB missed as a result of the failure to implement the planned price increases? What basis of calculation was used to determine the additional resources? Are the planned price increases for SNCB temporarily suspended? If so, until when? Were any agreements made about this? To what extent and in what way did the SNCB Board become involved in the decision taken at government level? Will other plans be submitted to ensure that public transport remains affordable in the long term?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u2	Mr President, the Ecolo-Groenfraction had a list of proposals in the negotiations for the Energy Agreement. That agreement stated that ticket prices would not be increased in the coming summer, which would cost EUR 13 million. By doing so, the State would partially offset the increasing energy costs of SNCB. Are you satisfied with the outcome of that energy agreement? The agreement contains measures worth EUR 1.3 billion, including EUR 13 million for public transport. That is about 1% of the total amount. Isn't that very little? Will EUR 13 million be enough to compensate for the additional energy costs of SNCB? Ticket prices will not be increased by 4.5 % in July, as initially planned. When did SNCB decide to increase ticket prices? Will SNCB increase ticket prices by 7% in February 2023? How long will prices be frozen?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u3	Mr President, Minister, Russia's aggression against Ukraine is a dramatic and unjustifiable war. Ukrainian citizens are the first and main victims. Given the proximity of the conflict, its impact is evident throughout the continent and in all sectors, including mobility. Indeed, despite the government's positive intervention, fuel prices may continue to fluctuate. These uncertainties push citizens to look for alternatives. So we can expect some people to abandon the car to take the train. This is a start to modal shift that can only be encouraged given the positive role of the train in mobility, road safety, global warming and health. In New Zealand, in this spirit, the Labour Prime Minister has decided to divide the price of public transport tickets by two. Minister, does SNCB anticipate an increase in the number of new users as fuel prices continue to rise? Will you propose measures to encourage and encourage our citizens who are reluctant to choose the train?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u4	Minister, Minister Van der Straeten has launched a proposal for additional funding for SNCB in order to reduce ticket prices. You have joined with your own plea for the reduction of ticket prices. However, the coalition agreement states exactly the opposite, namely that SNCB should be given more tariff autonomy in order to determine its own ticket prices and align them with the market. Does Minister Van der Straeten's proposal correspond to your own proposal to reduce ticket prices? Or is it different? Why do you break the commitment to more tariff autonomy from the government agreement by wanting to break into the price setting from the government? How much extra budget for the railways do you ask the government exactly? When will you put that question? What budgetary control or budget format?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u5	Minister...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u6	I'm just president.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u7	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, it's the emotion! That's true, but you were a minister. Minister one day, minister always! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for more than two months now a war has been waged on Ukraine in the form of an unspeakable aggression by the Russian army of power, at the gates of Europe. In addition to the human tragedies it causes, its consequences are felt throughout the European economy and also in all Belgian families. To support our citizens in the face of the surge in heating, electricity and mobility bills, the federal government has adopted three packages of urgent measures. We have complemented this fiscal and regulatory effort with a view to accelerating the initiatives to be taken towards our independence and the energy transition. Rail mobility, in particular, is an ally of choice. The investments to be made in this area are enormous, but also profitable. I hope that additional amounts can be committed in the future in view of what has already been decided. In this context, taking the train must be facilitated, encouraged and supported, as this mode of transport is indeed part of the solution. That is my conviction and the line I have been following since the beginning of my term of office. Since October 2020, therefore, I have been working every day to make the train an even more attractive means of transport and to give it the place it deserves in our transport offer. My goal is to make more trains run, both earlier in the morning and later in the evening as well as during the weekend, and to increase both reliability and punctuality. That's what the travelers are asking of us. For example, we want more people to choose the train and thus facilitate the modal shift towards sustainable transport. The link between this ambition for rail and the current energy debate is clear. The train is a sustainable alternative means of transport and therefore an ally in our quest for energy independence, especially in a context of rising fuel prices. As far as fares are concerned, the improvement of access to the train is an important aspect of my policy and the affordability of tickets and subscriptions obviously plays a major role. The request of the Board of Directors of SNCB to increase tariffs in anticipation of the coming summer in order to partially cover its additional energy costs, I rejected with the government. This would be a very bad signal at a time when fuel prices are exploding at the pump and it is important to offer alternatives to the car. That is why, in the context of the government's urgent measures taken to support rail transport further during the current energy crisis, I strongly advocated, during the government's budgetary control, the release of additional budgets to compensate for SNCB. I have obtained a total of EUR 22 million, so that SNCB would not adapt its rates in advance to the evolution of prices. This important political signal demonstrates the importance we attach to rail transport and its accessibility. Thus taking the train does not become more expensive, which makes it even more attractive compared to the car, for example, given the rising prices at the pump. In addition, SNCB is also launching further measures to encourage rail transport, such as the Duo Ticket promotion, which runs until the end of August and allows two passengers to travel for the price of one. There are other interesting tariff options: home-place-of-work subscriptions – with the fee-paying third party that has been expanded – free for children up to 12 years of age, Pass and weekend tickets, etc. Secondly, there is the burning question of rising energy prices that saves no one, no individual or no business. Inevitably, these prices will affect railway companies, certainly in financial terms. Indeed, the current crisis leads to an increase in the energy bill of SNCB and Infrabel, which are the two most electricity-intensive companies in our country. The impact will be considerable in 2022. In the current circumstances, it is very difficult to make definitive estimates due to price volatility. A calculation is almost immediately out of date. It is for this reason that the government, at my suggestion, granted additional support to the railway companies, namely EUR 82 million, to compensate for the increase in energy costs and the indexation of wages for the first six months of the year 2022. The exact distribution of this amount between SNCB and Infrabel is being determined. The political signal is clear here too: the train is our ally in this crisis and those who drive it must be protected. In total, an additional 105 million will have been granted to SNCB and Infrabel in this context. Since the beginning of the legislature, this has meant a total of more than EUR 1.7 billion of additional aid granted to our two railway undertakings beyond their annual allocation. Infrabel and SNCB also pursue a policy aimed at reducing their energy consumption. I would like to give the necessary impetus to this. For example, Infrabel and SNCB are taking initiatives to install renewable energy installations on their own premises and buildings, such as solar panels or charging stations for electric cars, in implementation of the Federal Government's energy agreement of 18 March 2022. Another example is the accelerated placement of LED lighting in the buildings and on the platforms. All these measures will at least mean that the railways will have to purchase less electricity. Finally, negotiations on the new public service contract with SNCB and the performance contract with Infrabel are under way. The intention remains to complete the two new contracts by the end of this year. The negotiations will include tariffs and greater autonomy in the pricing of SNCB. Hopefully we will have an opportunity to talk about this again very soon. And that, less than a week after the government approved Vision 2040 for the rail, which I have been developing for a few months and which is the first stone of this beautiful building that we are building.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'm coming back to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for the figures. If I understand correctly, there will be 80 million more. We are pleased that prices are blocked. That is a good thing. I do not need to remind you that we are also in favour of blocking other prices. This measure could lead to more passengers taking the train, and that is a good thing for us. We therefore hope that current prices will be maintained so that more use is made of the train.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u10	Minister, fuel prices have reached historic heights. The government must, of course, act to preserve the purchasing power of workers, but the current situation can also become a window of opportunity to encourage motorists to move through public transport - by train, as far as we are concerned. The federal state could do two blows with one stone by committing the necessary means to respond in concrete terms to this social crisis, but also to the climate crisis. Therefore, I welcome the government's initiative to encourage our fellow citizens to use the train more often. However, I would like to point out that, despite the efforts of this government, certain sections of the population cannot afford to do so at the moment of their car to travel, for example, to their workplace. I am thinking of employees and workers working in the so-called "three breaks" format, or of people living in rural areas, who do not always have public transport links at their disposal. We must not forget to help them, whether in the short term by defending their purchasing power or in the medium and long term by increasing the supply of transport earlier in the morning and later in the evening. You have been able to take note of a number of proposals which I have already submitted to you, in particular with regard to the province of Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u11	Minister, thank you. Indeed, the government's action on prices meets two considerations. On the one hand, the attractiveness of trains to other modes of transport is based on an opportunity principle. On the other hand, intervention on prices also means protecting citizens from the impact of this bill. The energy crisis is far from over, as you recalled. We played plumbers. You'll also have to play architects. The issue was renewable energy and energy independence of SNCB and Infrabel. We are still very far from the production side. The government has initiated action on this subject, which will need to be followed up in practice. Finally, an opportunity window opens for the attractiveness of the train. Duo tickets are very useful to seduce the potential customer, attracted by the tourist offer. Austria, for its part, has put in service a Climate ticket to look for customers who could use intermodality, passing from the bus to the train for 3 euros a day. This works, with 130,000 new transport subscribers. Vision 2040 will also encourage railway undertakings to do so in the form of an attractive tariff offer. I am pleased to learn of the concrete declination of these measures. In addition to Vision 2040, public service contracts will soon be renewed, while multi-year investment plans will take shape. This is a real opportunity for rail, and I welcome it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It seems to me that there is a big difference between the train and your railway policy: the train is mainly straight ahead, while your policy is full of sharp turns. It's a strange way of working. In your coalition agreement, you agree to give SNCB greater tariff autonomy. Your liberal friends are in favour of more commercial freedom. But then what happens? Not you as the competent minister, but several other ministers are simultaneously launching proposals that deal directly with the charging of SNCB. In the end, it is not SNCB, but the government that takes the decision. Apparently, what was agreed in the coalition agreement doesn't matter much anymore. You have stopped the rise in tariff prices, indeed. But the proposal that Mrs van der Straeten and you yourself put forward is not the status quo of ticket prices but the reduction. I have not been able to see in your reply here today whether you are still in favour of a further reduction in tariffs or whether you are taking a turn again. Anyway, I think it's a confusing way of working.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u14	Minister, I have already questioned you on this subject in plenary just before the Easter recess. Since Easter recess, the situation has not improved significantly. There are improvements to be made here and there, but other problems are emerging elsewhere. What's it about? It is about trains that are abolished because of lack of available staff. The abolition takes place when they should leave in the morning, so very late, so people cannot foresee that these trains will be abolished. Especially in the depots of Antwerp and Leuven, staff shortages would be such that on certain days when certain people are unexpectedly ill and do not show up, certain trains can no longer run. This is very problematic for the traveller, especially if this is not communicated in good time. That is certainly the case today. In the beginning, they were S-trains. Nowadays it is more focused on peak hour trains. For example, if peak hour trains are removed on line 4, only the international Benelux train, which is not the most reliable train in Belgium, can be counted. This leads to a lot of impatience and dissatisfaction with the traveller. Also on the lines from the Kempen towards Brussels and Antwerp there are peak hour trains that have been cancelled every now and then in recent weeks and with the other trains there are still technical problems and delays. These are also the consequences of the very acute workforce and the outdated rolling material, which has to do with the delayed inflow of the M7 carriages. This creates a kind of domino effect on all older material that still needs to be deployed, with all the problems that this entails. In addition, there is a lack of communication. As has just been pointed out, the announcement of the removal of trains is very late due to a shortage of staff, which means that passengers are faced with this very late. The daily commuter already calculates this somewhat and has built in the reflex specifically for those trains that we know today are uncertain in terms of service on the app to see if they are programmed. Based on that app, the regular traveler still tries to get to the station at a certain time. Even the information in that app that should normally make real-time information available to those travellers is wrong. Trains don't show up. First the train has five minutes delay, a little later ten minutes, then fifteen minutes. Eventually it turns out it's still in the workshop. They actually knew from the beginning that that train wouldn't run. That kind of communication is very annoying. Minister, the situation is really not good. We are talking about the train as a backbone, as an alternative to our saturated roads, but we are not making that happen today. On the contrary, we cannot attract new travellers and have difficulty in maintaining loyal rail passengers, who often have a lot of patience built in. They are so annoyed by the situation that they are thinking about switching to other means of transport. We really can't hold on to that for much longer. I know that the problem with regard to staff cannot be solved in one-two-three, that training is needed for the new train escorts can be employed, but the question is getting very acute. From when can we say that there is enough staff available again so that we can count on the deployment of all trains, as they are provided for in the normal timetable? That is the crucial question. Furthermore, I have a whole series of other questions about the reliability of equipment and so on, but the question about staff and the security of services, apart from technical problems, is the most crucial one today. Mr President, I have been somewhat detached from my questions, but the situation is really not good.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u15	Minister, it does not happen often, but I really have to agree with the previous speaker, but someone from your majority. More and more organisational problems at SNCB cause disruption of the normal train supply. There are several causes, but one of the main causes is the lack of staff. There's been a reasonable staff dropout. They also find it very difficult to take leave days and compensation days; there are 90,000 still open. Following the failure of the Social Inspectorate to do so, SNCB now has until June 2024 to deal with this delay. This means that she will have to eliminate those compensation days, which will again put additional pressure on services. Moreover, from this year onwards all planned rest and compensation days should be granted effectively. This causes a lack of train escorts, which means that more and more trains have to be removed. In March 2022, 1,284 trains were cancelled. Communication to passengers and service to passengers is therefore totally inadequate. So it's really not good. Can you confirm the high figures of abolished trains and perhaps give recent figures? Do you think that the poor staff situation of SNCB and its impact on transport planning contribute to a good service for the train traveller? Is the abolition of train journeys not contrary to your plans to increase the number of trains and lead more people to the train? What actions will you or SNCB take to ensure that full capacity can be restored quickly, with a punctual and full service? In what way will the large number of compensation days be eliminated by June 2024, without this having an effect on the train offer or service to the train traveller? Do you believe that the lack of staff will improve safety in rail transport?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u16	Minister, ladies and gentlemen have already outlined the major operational problems facing SNCB. Among other things, due to the shortage of staff, the timetable is not guaranteed and there are other problems. It is not the first time that this has been mentioned and we have debated this on a number of occasions. This has been on the table since the beginning of this term of office and, unfortunately, we have not yet seen any improvement, quite the contrary. What strikes me is that in the meantime you are talking about the expansion of the offer. Your promises about that can no longer be kept. Last week we got the message again that every ten minutes or every 15 minutes a train has to leave in each station, that the rail supply has to double from 8% to 15% and that millions of train passengers and train journeys need to be added, the famous modal shift. That is all very nice, but in the meantime we see in the field that your policy does not even succeed in guaranteeing the existing offer and that thousands of train journeys are being abolished. In March more than 1,200 full train journeys and 2,500 partial train journeys were cancelled and this is usually communicated just before departure. Such a policy does not encourage the use of trains, but drives the people to the car. It can't go on like this. We have already raised the problems of staffing and leave days in December 2021. You said at that time that you would not intervene, that this would be for social consultation and that you would not interfere. We're six months later, and it hasn't improved. What will you do now? When will you finally take action?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u17	Minister, SNCB and Infrabel are struggling to recruit the personnel necessary for their operation and rail safety. And we're not even talking about expanding services. When we know the working conditions of railway workers, it is not surprising that recruitment is difficult. At SNCB, 1,300 people are missing. Trains operate in reduced numbers or through personnel attached to other services, which are augmented. When string end solutions have been exhausted, trains are removed. This is the case at the moment on several lines. Today, we can no longer incriminate covid-19. Two months ago, I understood you and was in solidarity with you. Indeed, despite the questions I asked, I was aware that the task was difficult during the health crisis. We feel it everywhere, even in our communal administrations. Today, however, these health problems seem to be rectified. As for Infrabel, Benoît Gilson said in this commission: to function in a normal way, he would need 10,200 people. He can only pay 9,815. In addition to the problems of complicated profiles, there is clearly a problem of attractiveness of employment in railways. It's not like it used to be. In our villages in southern Luxembourg, people worked either in the steel industry in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and in France, or in the SNCB workshop in Stockem. Very few still work there today. No one wants to work in understaffed conditions, for a salary that does not correspond to the effort. I know your willingness to do everything possible to ensure that public transport can be attractive and attract the population. You have the extraordinary chance to be able to ask for any budget from the government, and he will give it to you. No minister can tell you that we must not invest in public transport. The environmental issue is so virulent that no one can deny you credit. So please ask them, I know you'll get them! Among your priorities to build your Vision 2040 - or perhaps it is better to say project - where do you place the commitment of staff? What structural solutions do you propose to improve the situation and make recruitment more attractive within the railway? What social clauses will you include in future public service contracts? How much will the operating allocations of enterprises be increased to ensure the possibility of recruitment and retention of employment in the long term? I insist and repeat that today no government can deny you the funds you will be asking for for the development of public transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u18	Minister, much has already been said by previous speakers. People don't believe it anymore. When one looks at the situation, it gets worse and worse. More and more trains are being abolished. You have good ideas, but if the practice is completely different, then we have a serious problem. In November 2021, I myself asked a written question on the problem of staff shortages. We kept knocking on that nail. Then you replied that Corona was the culprit, that there were too many sick. But that really isn't up to date anymore. I can assure you that the staff is angry about that, too. The people on the ground are working their asses off, can't take their leave. There are not enough people who can make the trains run. Mr van den Bergh, you are right when you get angry and say that this is not possible. It's a public service. Minister, especially as a green minister, you must ensure that trains run and that everyone can use the train and avoid fewer and fewer people taking the train. Minister, will you stick to the answer you gave in November 2021, in particular that the cause was the illness of the staff? How many train journeys were abolished due to lack of staff in the month of April 2022? Can travellers claim compensation if they are victims of a abolished train? How are you going to eliminate that staff shortage so that all trains can run as planned? Who do you think is responsible for this shortage of personnel?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u19	Mr President, the subject of the questions is very close to my heart. It concerns the many women and men who guarantee daily service on our rail network. We will need them, because I do indeed have ambitions for more trains and better services for passengers. I am well aware that the context in which railway workers carry out their tasks is not always clear. That was the case in covid times and it is still today. Well-being at work for all workers is essential to me, especially in view of SNCB's exemplary role as a public enterprise. I therefore share your concerns about staff shortages and absenteeism and its impact on services. As Minister of Mobility, I want the trains in our country to run as they should. The consequences of the covid on workers' absenteeism have been pointed out on several occasions. We are getting out of the covid, even if there are still sick – but much less than yesterday. A worker has the right to be ill and to be covered. Sometimes there are unpredictable circumstances, which I regret just like you. Mr Toventers, together with SNCB, I am looking for the most optimal solutions to the supply, with respect for the well-being of the staff. I have therefore recently questioned SNCB about the human resources issue and the levers that we can use to address it. For example, I asked SNCB to extend the maximum number of trains that can be insured. Mr Roggeman, SNCB recognizes and deeply regrets the fact that train services cannot always be ensured by the absence of train escorts at present. The problem arises mainly in some larger depots in the Noordoost district, as in Antwerp. Due to the increased staff failure, especially with the train escorts, many trains had to be removed in real time. That's a shame, isn't it? In order to tackle the problem on the ground and meet the shortages, SNCB will recruit 260 train escorts this year. They are currently being trained for 4.5 months and will be deployed from June onwards. I also refer to the large recruitment campaign of both SNCB and Infrabel to recruit massive staff. SNCB is looking for 1,300 staff, Infrabel 900, but, as you know, there is currently a huge cut in the labour market. This is a challenge, especially with regard to the technical profiles the railway companies are looking for. Mr Arens, the structural solution you are talking about is to hire staff. Among the technical profiles most sought by Infrabel – particularly in the province of Luxembourg – are mainly employees responsible for the maintenance of railway infrastructure such as maintenance agents, electro-mechanical technicians, welders, engineers, to whom SNCB and Infrabel offer very interesting wage conditions, great job stability, opportunities for training and significant career development. To meet this challenge, Infrabel does not spare his efforts and recruitment campaigns are organized in a targeted manner. For example, Infrabel and SNCB organize Jobdays on a regular basis. During these days, candidates have the opportunity to discover the job opportunities offered, to meet directly with active railway workers and to take various recruitment tests. I myself recently attended the Infrabel training centre in Molenbek. The Infrabel Academy is a great tool to enable the infrastructure manager to cope with the shortage of candidates for certain profiles by training directly and according to the needs of people looking for a job. Finally, Infrabel constantly adapts to the changes in our world. During confinement, online recruitment was organised, while today the infrastructure manager's website offers the possibility to view available job offers and related wage developments by geographical area. As you can see, both SNCB and Infrabel carry out a whole series of actions to deal with the shortage of labour in certain sectors, both in the short and long term, and they are among the most innovative employers who make every effort to create an employer. The situation is constantly monitored so that actions can be strengthened or strengthened where necessary. Will it be easy? I'm afraid not. Is it necessary? Yeah, sure. SNCB is also examining all other measures to ensure maximum supply. As I have already said in the Committee on Mobility, Mr Toventors, I would like to stress that the issue of compensation days affects the social management of the companies themselves, which I follow closely, but in which I do not wish to interfere directly. In this context, discussions have been held several times with the workers' organizations and with the Social Inspectorate, which has paid off. There is a definitive postponement until 30 June 2024 for the elimination of the historical balances, which the SNCB can do spread. SNCB thus follows the rules of the Social Inspectorate and so it should be. You also mention the safety of the rail system. That is indeed a priority for me in the broad sense of the word. I am thinking not only of safe rail transport in the area of infrastructure, but also of the safety of staff and rail passengers, on which Mrs Buyst has just tabled a resolution. Mr Van den Bergh, the overall level of mobilisation of the rolling stock at SNCB was under pressure at the beginning of this year, but fortunately it has improved again. The degree of immobilisation is not monitored by SNCB per line. If there are problems in a workshop, exchanges are made between different workshops so that they can jump in for their colleagues where possible, so SNCB informs me. Specific action plans are under way to further structurally improve the availability of equipment, such as the organisation of workshops and timetable integrated maintenance, on which SNCB and Infrabel work closely together. However, over the last few weeks I have also had several questions about the Antwerp-Brussels line (which also goes to Essen). I have spoken to SNCB on several occasions. As Minister for Mobility and Travellers' Minister, I have urged you to continue monitoring the possibilities for improvement in the short term. We must not cut back on services. Both myself and the two railway companies are well aware of the personnel challenges facing the railways. However, they do not affect my determination and that of SNCB and Infrabel to find a solution together so that they can recruit the necessary staff. The well-being of the employees is at my heart, because I am convinced that we need the railway workers to drive the train. The railways are an attractive employer for many people: work close to home, fine colleagues, exciting career opportunities in a meaningful job in which people work on solutions for the mobility of the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer, which offers some prospects. I note that, from June onwards, the situation with the influx of new train escorts should normalise, which hopefully gives some margin to deal with the illness and absence of staff who appear to be quite high in certain depots. I'm a little disappointed in your answer, too. Some colleagues try to frame this as a reproach of the majority to their own minister, but that is not the case. The point is that the government has an agreement with a railway company to provide a certain service. That service is not being provided today. That problem must be brought before the government and you as ministers, including SNCB. In that sense, I am disappointed that you are focusing on the arguments put forward by SNCB and Infrabel about the efforts already being made to recruit additional staff, when those staff shortages have actually been expected for some time and those recruitments should have been started some time ago, perhaps even before you joined as Minister. It is not your responsibility but the responsibility of the railway companies to provide sufficient staff in time and to get the services agreed with the government and against which fees are set. I miss that element. One does not respond in good time to the needs that exist. I also think that very little attention is paid to the needs of the traveller in this story. There's a focus on the staff. The people who work then have to work twice as hard, all the understanding for that, but how the travellers have really given up over the last few weeks and months, I dare say so, should also receive attention. I even wonder whether people who have bought an annual subscription for commuting or commuting should not be able to count on a commercial gesture from the railways? Some gestures could nevertheless respond to the suffering that has been caused over the past few months. That may sound a bit exaggerated, it is only about relocations, but some people really see that. As far as the overall picture for SNCB is concerned, it is good that we have great ambitions for the train. It is a good thing that, at the end of the year, SNCB wants to provide additional train kilometres on certain lines, weekends, evenings and so on. But first of all, it is essential that the existing offer is completed in a qualitative manner. At first, it has to be better now, rather than more. "Better" must now be the priority. Then it is not about luxury, but about the essence, namely the trains that are on the hour table.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer. There's a hopeful story in there. From June 2022, 260 recruitments can be employed. However, I would like to make the necessary reservations. I think it's all a little too little too late, but okay. Maybe making a train longer can help. The fact is that the staff is thoroughly on his gums. I regret that, because it is a problem that has been dragging on for a long time. I note that you intervene when it comes to tariff increases and pulls them towards her. But when it comes to compensation days, you are not going to do so, because that is the responsibility of SNCB. Of course, that's easy. It is easy to say that attention is paid to the well-being of the staff. That well-being is, in reality, the following. A young train coach, working quite recently, is asking for a holiday. That was always rejected, except twice. That is the reality. Then the man sent me messages of what he goes through every day. In the morning, he checks the train before he leaves and finds that one of the doors is defective. There comes a sticker "out of use." But that's going to be a second door, a third, a fourth and a fifth on one train. Then he finds that there is no technician available on weekends and that the train cannot be used. Then there's a problem with the service. In the meantime, the man's home sick. That's understandable. That is the reality of the well-being of the train attendants at SNCB. That makes me make a little reservation with the people who are about to start. It is understandable that COVID-19 has robbed us, but in the meantime there has been a long time. That must not remain an excuse for the problems that exist. So I am looking forward and can only hope that there will be a speedy recovery. At the moment, your policy does not lead people to the train, but drives people off the train.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply, which included several aspects. One aspect to which I would like to draw attention is the reference to corona. In the last two years, the corona virus has indeed been a convenient cover for the staff drop-out, but not anymore. It is clear that the problem is deeper and structural and that it requires policy changes, which we do not hear in your reply this afternoon. Minister, you announce that SNCB will recruit 260 additional staff in 2022. However, be honest. This is mainly to replace natural redundancies. Instead of focusing on increases in supply in places where trains are overcrowded, you impose more trains on SNCB everywhere, without taking into account transport demand. This, of course, means that you will need a lot more than 260 staff to get all this serviced. Your policy increases operational pressure on SNCB, but you do not attach any consequences to it in personnel policy. Minister, I would therefore like to call on you to stop dreaming and hovering about doubling the number of travellers. Please keep your feet on the ground and ensure a solid basic offer. That's hard enough as it is. Stop building air castles on the rail supply in twenty years' time and ensure a decent offer for today's travelers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answer. In a global way, the civil service is living in bad years in our country, suffering from neglect on the part of different governments. More precisely, with regard to mobility, our planet Earth needs you more than ever. I am counting on you, Minister, to fight within the government to get the budgetary means to recruit and move forward. In addition to the staff, there is also the development of railway infrastructure. When you are a few hundred kilometres from Brussels and you have to take the line back in time, taking the train is far from encouraging. I'm counting on you for the fighting in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u24	Mr. Secretary, we need to get our feet back on the ground. Over the last 5 years there have been 5,000 fewer jobs and productivity has increased by 20%. You won't solve that with 260 people in it. Besides, a lot of people are retiring. The problem won't be solved. There are 90,000 compensation days and what do we see now? I've received messages from SNCB staff looking for another job. You have the problem that the workload on these people is so great that they are looking for another job. As you say, they're good jobs, but they can't keep up because they don't get a vacation, because they can't combine it with their family anymore, because the pressure is too high. We're in a vicious circle. The workload is too high, causing people to leave, and you won't get the staff. You will really have to step up if we are to ensure that the trains that have to run now can do so effectively. What will you do for the passengers who cannot take their train because it has been abolished? Will you provide for compensation? How will you solve that? After all, a lot of trains have been cancelled. How will you ensure that people want to keep taking the train?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u25	Mr President, the situation outlined by Mr Van den Bergh, among others, is something I have been able to experience in the last few weeks. There are many problems on a number of lines, indeed towards the Kempen. That is a problem that needs to be solved, because abolished trains do not provide the advertising we need for the rail, especially after the corona period. The traveller is the victim of that, and that is not what we want, but I have not heard that from you either. I have heard a minister admitting that there are indeed problems and that they need to be addressed. I have also heard a minister speak to the SNCB. I hear that the railway company, and that is an answer to what Mrs Vindevoghel indicates, is investigating the levers that make it easier to keep the job attractive. I think that there is an important task for SNCB. I also see an important task there for the service contract that we will conclude with SNCB, in which we will impose a number of KPIs which I believe should make staff able to work in a more pleasant environment. The new recruitments may not solve everything, but they are a step in the right direction. We must also remember that you inherited a department, Minister, from which previous governments have only saved money. That problem must therefore be resolved, but I am very sympathetic to you and to SNCB. The railways must and must remain the backbone of transport, and so we must invest in them. I do not agree with those who say balloons are being launched. I'm glad the government finally has a long-term vision. Each company first develops a vision before it plans to invest. The government puts Vision 2040 on the table: it indicates where it wants the track to stand by 2040 and is now negotiating with SNCB and Infrabel on how to achieve that goal. That is much more than what the previous governments have done together.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u26	Minister, the Federal Planning Bureau and the Mobility FPS came to the prediction in their latest publication on passenger transport that the increased homework will make itself felt permanently in transport demand. They calculate for rail a permanent loss of 3% of demand, while with the federal government you are aiming for a sharp increase in passenger transport by rail. What adjustments will you make to your policy plans following these negative forecasts for passenger transport? What estimated financial impact will there be on SNCB if the predictions of the Federal Planning Bureau and the Mobility FPS are fulfilled?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u27	Minister, the last three-year study of the Federal Transportation Outlook Plan Office by 2040 presented – and it's surprising – the demand for mobility by 2040 at 1% less than in 2019. The reasons for this decline are, in their view, telework, the ageing of the population and the increase in the average cost of transport. Having read this study, you responded by saying that the Plan Office was projecting its vision from the current policy, but did not take into account the changes that you were going to introduce. I conclude that you have great ambitions and we will support you in these. So please lead the fight! Will the measures you will take by 2024 be sufficient to straighten the bar and meet the ambitions of your 2040 project, double the number of passengers per rail by 2040? How will you ensure that the decisions you make as Minister of Mobility today are sustainable beyond 2024? I imagine you know the mechanisms to guarantee the future of public transport? Do you not agree with some of the observations made by the Planning Office, such as the evolution of telework, the ageing of the population, the weight of the transport budget in a household? Do you work and collaborate with other public and/or private operators than the Planning Office to draft your 2040 project and, if so, which?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u28	Mr Minister, the transport prospects for 2040 for passenger and freight transport, developed by the Federal Planning Office in cooperation with the FPS Mobility and Transport, show that fewer people will choose the train in the coming years. This is contrary to the government's policy of turning the train into the backbone of mobility; the government wants more people on the train. However, it appears that the car's share in our movements will remain about the same by 2040. The car is therefore and remains the dominant mobility choice of the inhabitants of this country. In the case of freight transport, growth is forecast, both for rail freight and for road trucks. By 2040 there will be about 20 % more trucks on our roads. According to the Planning Bureau's predictions, this will lead to a reduction in speed, an increase in traffic jams and thus a higher cost. Will you change your policy to make the train the backbone of mobility? Do you continue to rely on an offer-oriented rail model and will you stick to your plan to have at least two trains stop at each station every hour? The changing demographic composition of the population and the increase in telework are highlighted in the report of the Federal Planning Office as the reasons for the future decline in the number of train passengers. Do you believe that these are the only causes? If no, what other possible causes do you see? Will you take measures to reduce the predicted drop in speed and increase traffic congestion in road transport? What measures are you considering with what budget and what timetable?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u29	Did you also deal with your question?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u30	I will refer to the written version. Question No 5, by Mr De Pasquale 55027604C on the budgetary implications of transport supply plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u31	Minister, three times a year the Federal Planning Office analyses the prospects of transport demand. It was to be expected that we would have to adjust the transport demand due to the corona crisis. More than ever, employees have discovered the benefits of telework. The study confirms that this will be a keeper, which is a good thing. Experts state that rail traffic is the result of this and that the share of the car remains the same. The share of pedestrians and cyclists is increasing. The further increase in the number of transport kilometres per car and an increase in road freight traffic increase congestion even more than today. Please note, the researchers underline very clearly that the data can only be interpreted in this way in the context of an unchanged policy. We can implement this modal shift, but only if we take decisive action. Minister, what conclusions do you draw from the report of the Federal Planning Office? The Federal Planning Office sees an increase of 25% in rail freight transport by 2040. How will the planned policies strengthen the shift to rail to the planned doubling? SNCB does not share the gloomy outlook for the end of the growth of the number of travellers. To what extent will the new service contract and the investment plan reflect the ambition to increase the number of travellers? How will you work with your fellow mobility ministers from the regions towards real ambition in modal shift?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u32	"The Bureau of the Plan foresees that the car will remain dominant in individual travel by 2040 even if the authorities do their utmost to reduce its use. According to the study, the car will continue to account for 82.3% of travel in 2040. The train would see its modal share decrease to a contrario. Its share of use would increase from 8.7% in 2019 to only 7.9% in 2040. The telework effect would account for 20.1% of the decrease.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u33	- What are the priorities that emerge from vision 2040 to respond to the scenario of the plan office?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u34	The market share of the train should increase from 8% to 15%, freight should increase from 12% to 20%, passengers should be able to catch a train every 30 minutes and every 15 minutes in the major cities. Civil society and nature associations are, of course, very positive, because the plans are beneficial both for humans and for nature. Nevertheless, the Interfederal Corps of the Treasury Inspectorate, which is studying the financial feasibility of government projects, has already destroyed your railway vision. Your vision is not funded and is therefore merely fantasy. What budget is your rail vision based on? What was the concrete criticism of the Interfederal Corps of the Treasury Inspectorate? What major infrastructure will be associated with the 2040 Railway Vision? Do you think that infrastructure work will be needed over the next 20 years to enable more people and more goods to be transported by rail? Are your objectives to increase the market share of the train to 15%, not at risk, as fewer passengers appear to be using the train? Does SNCB have enough staff to expand the offer in accordance with your railway vision?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u35	"Mr Minister, last Friday, the Council of Ministers approved your text "Vision Rail 2040" which aims to ensure for the next twenty years a greater efficiency of the SNCB and a better customer service.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u36	Thank you in advance for your answers."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u37	Mr President, I would like to thank colleagues for their questions, which will allow me to develop the Vision 2040 that we adopted with the government this Friday. Thank you for your continued interest in the future of the train in Belgium. Rail time is a long time. Buying a new car is a decision you make one day and you see the result five or six years later, at best. Investing in the network requires programming, means, execution time, etc. It is for this reason that it is necessary to be able to project itself in the long term. This is what other countries, before ours, have done effectively. We see the results today. It was therefore time for Belgium to develop such a vision at 20 years of age, because to govern is to foresee. What do we want as a rail service in 20 years and, above all, what are we doing to achieve our objectives and gradually, but as quickly as possible, attract more people and businesses to rail? These are the central issues that have animated me since the beginning of my term of office and which I have begun to answer with the development of the Vision Rail 2040 - an intention that was very prominent in the government agreement and which has just been put into practice in the Council of Ministers last Friday with the approval of my proposal. I'll come back a little further. Two weeks ago, the Federal Planning Office published its forecasts for the evolution of transport demand in Belgium. In these forecasts, 2019 is taken as a base year and, in the case of an unchanged policy, looks forward to 2040. Under an unchanged policy, the Federal Planning Office predicts that the average number of kilometres travelled per person in Belgium will increase slightly until 2030 and then decrease by about 1% in 2040. In an unchanged policy, the Federal Planning Office also predicts a growth of 35% for hiking and cycling. That's a good perspective. In an unchanged policy, the Federal Planning Office also predicts an increase in rail freight transport by more than 28%. That's a good perspective, too. In an unchanged policy, the Federal Planning Office predicts an increase in the use of the track for leisure purposes by 2030. That's another good perspective. In an unchanged policy, the Federal Planning Office predicts a decrease in rail traffic of about 3% by 2040. The Federal Planning Office expects demand for rail passenger transport to decrease mainly between 2030 and 2040. According to the Plan Bureau, this forecast is due to several factors. The changing age structure of the population plays a role due to a decline in the school population and the student population after 2030. It is mainly the effect of teleworking on work-related travel that would explain this predicted decline as the daily commuters are also the people who can and want to telework. Although forecasts for the next 20 years remain extremely complex and de facto do not take into account significant unpredictable social, political and economic events, such as the increase in fuel prices or the conflict in Ukraine, these forecasts should be seen as a worrying signal. With unchanged policy, that is, if we do nothing to change the current trajectory, we will miss the opportunity to offer citizens the freedom of more sustainable, safer and environmentally friendly mobility. Indeed, change is under way. I repeat quite often, my ambition and that of the government is to make rail the backbone of mobility in Belgium. I say this: the whole government shares this ambition with me. In any case, that's what he showed when he adopted Vision 2040. This is why the government has just adopted this vision proposal that I have developed with the help of the Mobility FPS, in close consultation with the economic, social and environmental partners: National Labour Council, Central Economic Council, Federal Council for Sustainable Development, Advisory Council of Rail Users, FEB, Voka, Walloon Union of Enterprises, various unions - I pass, and the best - but also with the railway companies themselves. This vision of what it will mean to take the train in 20 years is now clear, ambitious and motivating. In the end, the goal is to take the train in 2040, it will be: - at least four trains per hour around large cities and at least two trains per hour over the rest of the network, with priority for the most used lines; - a 15% share of passenger traffic, compared to 8 today, and a 20% share of rail freight compared to 12 today; - 100 % green and renewable rail traffic. To do this, this vision details the objectives to be achieved in order to bring ever more passengers, customers, companies to the train within 20 years. This includes: - a better transport offer; - better accessibility of railway stations and trains; - live stations integrated into their environment, - attractive and simplified pricing, in particular with flexible home and workplace subscriptions, for those who partially telework; - attractive fares for travellers on leisure time, as is the case with the Duo Ticket; - complete and up-to-date information for travellers; - comfortable travel conditions that meet the expectations of travellers; - comprehensive and integrated safety of passengers, the public and staff. Mrs Buyst, this vision indeed includes a freight component, because one freight train more on the track means that there are 50 lorries less on the road. For example, public authorities will have to intervene in the costs of ensuring the competitiveness of rail freight transport. Last year we were able to reform the support system for rail freight operators. I am currently working on an action plan to double the volume of rail freight by 2030. I am working with my regional colleagues to increase the modal shift from road to rail. Mr Arens, this Vision Rail 2040 is, as I said, the result of a great consultation with dozens of different actors, such as regional public transport companies, trade unions and representatives of employers and associations - all of which, of course in close cooperation with SNCB, Infrabel and thanks to the valuable support of the Mobility SPF. This Vision Rail 2040 is the first essential brick in a series of ongoing initiatives that will allow us to lie about the Plan Bureau's projections and thus reduce our CO2 emissions, reduce traffic congestion on our roads, reduce our dependence on fossil fuels, improve road safety - in short, make mobility a freedom. Mr Roggeman, making rail the backbone of mobility in Belgium is also a financial and budgetary issue for our railway company. Of course, SNCB would lose revenue if the number of passengers were to fall. So we can't let that happen. The aim is precisely the opposite: more passengers and more goods on the railways. That will also generate more own income. We have to invest smartly for this, because 1 euro of investment in rail will bring our economy 3 euros. However, in order to invest smartly and to spend our public money efficiently, we must first determine what direction we want to go. Otherwise, there is a risk that the choice made by the government is not coherent, as we have seen too often in the past. So with the 2040 Railway Vision, the course is set. The first phase of the elaboration of this vision includes the performance contract and the public service contract, which is currently being negotiated with the undertakings. They will establish a framework for the Belgian railway until 2033. I will also entrust the FPS Mobility with a technical and financial feasibility study, as set out in the government agreement, so that we can in future identify where, when and how this new offer is being made on the Belgian network. These future contracts will be accompanied by a budget path that I am working hard on. Colleagues, in addition to having an ambitious vision for the future and renewed public service contracts, we need resources. It is clear that the Inspection des Finances points out precisely by giving a favourable opinion on this Vision document. Mrs Rohonyi, I think you were misled by the title of the article you read. Since the beginning of the legislature, we have allocated more than 1.7 billion euros for rail compared to the annual allocations to Infrabel and SNCB, to finance various useful initiatives and to offset the extraordinary costs incurred by the two companies. It's not over. Our country faces enormous challenges in terms of climate change, combating air pollution, combating traffic congestion, improving road safety, exploding fuel prices and seeking energy independence. The train is a response to each of these challenges, provided that clear and effective choices are made both at the organizational and regulatory levels as well as at the fiscal and economic levels, choices based on a thorough reflection of the mobility we want for the future. This is the objective of Vision Rail 2040, which sets a clear, ambitious and motivating course, ensuring the coherence and soundness of railway policy decisions for the next 20 years. The full document is available on the Mobility FPS website so that all stakeholders can learn about it and, if they so wish, continue to discuss it. I remain at the disposal of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u38	Minister, your ambition for the track is to get twice as many people on the train, but what is the sober reality? First of all, you have no money for it, says the Treasury Inspectorate. Secondly, you do not have any staff for it, as the previous debate taught us. Thirdly, the penalty of all: the train traveller himself does not ask for it, that is what the Federal Planning Office and your own administration of the FOD say. You know very well yourself, because you yourself wrote it down in your own policy paper for this year. It states that the greatest challenge for rail transport is the increased homework. You don't associate any action with that. Transport demand is falling, while loss-making offers are being increased in locations where this is not meaningful. One does not need to be an economist to see that it goes wrong. Wise policy adapts to a changing environment. You remain stubbornly committed to promises that you have been repeating for two years and which are overtaken by reality. U zegt: "Governance is foretelling." A plan which, however, Not being able to change is a bad plan, Minister. Anyone who leaves out his ideological dogmas today and looks at the situation on the ground can only conclude that this is doomed to failure. It is no shame to acknowledge that the world looks different after corona and that policy adjustment is appropriate. That would just testify to good governance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u39	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. That's right, as you said, we need a budget. You need money, which is perhaps even more understandable! I would like to stress that, during the covid crisis, entry into Brussels was very simple since there was telework. A French politician said: "Labouring and grazing are the two mameles of France". I'll tell you today: "Rail and telework are the two clusters of mobility." We need both, and at the same time, without that, we will not succeed. I would also like to urge the chairman of the committee, who is a member of the Conference of Presidents. Yesterday, when I called for trade unions, he rightly said that it was at the Conference of Presidents that the call should be made. Do you see, dear colleague Hanus, how much I changed my shoulder rifle? Today I am more than in favour of teleworking for parliamentarians. And I would like to stress from our President that he should take the necessary steps, be he the transmission belt to the Conference of Presidents to develop telework, especially for people who devote five hours of travel a day when they come to Parliament, whether by train or by car. We spend five hours a day travelling to come to Parliament! I hope we will be heard because we are quite on the same wavelength.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u40	Mr Arens, I would like to point out that you have even asked for the support of the Proximus unions who were sitting here to speak to the House Bureau on this point. You've got a lot of ideas.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u41	Minister, you remind me of a baker, the baker of the railroad. When the Vivaldi government was appointed, you took over the bakery from the railroad. In the counter is a number of cakes, with whipped cream and so on. Now you're saying that all that isn't healthy and that you're going to make cake, in your case biocake. And people will have to eat biocake. Turns out the people don't like that biocake. The vast majority, 82% according to the report, prefer cake. As a bakery you do not align your bakery policy with that cake, no, you fill your counter with biocake. People have to and will eat biocake. That's a strange argument. A long-term vision is good, there has to be. But there must also be a short-term vision. No one chooses the train today because you come to tell us that within 10, 20 or 30 years it will all go smoothly and well. You mention the report of the Federal Planning Office as a disturbing signal, and I think it is an important recommendation, a direction indicator for your policy. You should focus more on the people who choose to drive and on all the problems that will arise, with more traffic jams and a lower speed. You should bet on that. I almost fell off my chair when I heard that the assignment for a financial and technical feasibility study has yet to be given. I thought there was a railway vision 2040 and that the Treasury Inspectorate asked about the budget. But now I hear that the order has yet to be given. I therefore find your answer very disappointing. I have therefore tabled a motion of recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u42	Mr. Secretary, I'm not going to talk about cake or cake. Of course, the report of the Planning Bureau gives some important insights. That's true. However, it is not a prediction of the future. The future isn't fixed. The experts say very clearly that these are the figures under unchanged policies. I have repeated it twice in my question and I repeat it again in my reply. The policy needs to be adapted. The Ecolo-Green Group has always been convinced, and together with our organisations such as Greenpeace, Bond Better Environment and TrainTramBus, that a long-term vision for the Belgian track is needed. And it's here now. The course is now set. We're going to invest in the train. And investing 1 euro gives 3 euros back to the economy. The plan is there and the course is set. The negotiations you are currently conducting with SNCB and Infrabel are, in my view, about short-term planning and how this vision should be achieved. I do not agree with a number of previous speakers who say that we need to align our policies with the figures that are now available. I've always been convinced of the fact that more supply creates more demand. If someone finds the train a smooth alternative to the car, and indeed the problems of the previous question need to be addressed, he will also leave the car on the sidelines and choose the train. That's the plan for us. I hear colleagues here arguing for absolute standstill in the supply of trains and for pure efficiency reasons. Let it be very clear, that is not the choice for Ecolo-Green. The choice is to invest in the train and in our future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u43	Mr Parent, do you refer to your colleague's reply? You could.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u44	Mr President, I will still add a little word and depart from my previous wisdom, if I may. Minister, you explained several things to us about Vision 2040, reminding us that it reflected a voluntarism shared by various advisory councils, the social partners and railway companies. This is necessary, because without proactive actions, no modal shift, as noted by the Office of the Plan. I heard about telework. According to some, this evolution would exempt us from developing a vision for the rail. This would be tantamount to ostrich politics. Indeed, the problems are well present; just look outside. The number of cars has increased by 25% in the last 20 years. Every day we face pollution and congestion. CO2 emissions also increased by 25% due to road transport. This also affects coexistence with other modes of transport. So we need the rail. We therefore need to attract new passengers, for example through tourism, intermodal supply and urban modalities. We must of course continue to seduce those who are already taking the train by improving the quality and punctuality of the offer. To this end, an attractive tariff policy is also essential. It is good that we agree on this, because this has not been the case in recent years. As a result, the SNCB was seen as a variable for budgetary adjustment, so the available resources were misdirected. Hundreds of millions have been made available to some stations, but today we are paying the price for these bad investment choices. We will not absorb a 20-year liability and respond to the challenges of the next 20 years by slamming fingers. That is why this Vision 2040 was necessary. It is a prerequisite for the conclusion of management contracts and the Multi-year Investment Plan. In any case, no means without vision. We cannot, and more, deceive ourselves with regard to the future of rail.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u45	Minister, we support the fact that you have ambitious plans, but we are not going to come up with ambitious plans without a pogno and without hands. That's our biggest criticism, isn't it? We fear that there are not enough resources. You have not answered many of my questions. How will you finance this? That remains a very serious question mark for us. Without resources, you will not be able to meet those ambitions. That is our biggest criticism of what is on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u46	Minister, thank you for your substantiated answer. I have no doubt about your willingness to develop an ever more attractive rail offer, but this intention will remain dead if it is not budgeted. This was pointed out in the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate, which did not express itself in an unfavourable way in relation to your vision as such, but rather in relation to the lack of budgeting. Moreover, this opinion repeats what the Central Economic Council and the National Labour Council said in December 2021. This notice, which we received, already dealt with this Vision Rail 2040. In particular, he said that the financing of this rail vision must be compatible with the objectives set out in the same vision, especially since the Royal Decree of 9 March 2022 - laying down the provisional rules which are valid as management contract for Infrabel and SNCB - stresses the need to avoid "a deterioration in the financial situation of Infrabel and SNCB, since it would call into question their ability to fully assume their public service tasks". However, in order to avoid the degradation potentially highlighted by this royal decree, what better than to budget these plans? Otherwise, despite your best intentions and the best intentions in the world, our rail policy will not change, at least not enough to see the number of passengers on the rail increase, as we all wish and as the Federal Planning Office did. I would also like to stress the measures which, on the other hand, cost nothing, except common sense, to make our mobility ever more multimodal, with coordination of the different modes of public transport. Finally, I am fully aware that these measures take time, as you have pointed out, to put in place. But we don't have that time. Indeed, the latest IPCC report highlights the climate emergency. I also asked Minister Khattabi yesterday about this. This report stresses the need for drastic changes in our policies on energy consumption and, above all, on fossil fuels within the next three years, not by 2040.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u47	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Frank Toventors and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Frank Toventors and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Mobility, - considering the government's mobility plans to lead more people to the use of the train; - considering the objective of the Minister for Mobility to extend the train supply to two trains per hour at each station, - considering the finding of the Federal Planning Office that fewer people will choose to take the train in the future; - considering the finding of the Federal Planning Office that the car will remain the dominant means of transport in the future; - considering the finding by the Federal Planning Office that the average speed on the road will decrease in the future and that there will be an increase in the number of traffic jams; - considering the finding of the Federal Planning Office that one fifth more lorries will be on the road in the future; asks the government immediately take the necessary measures to ensure that federal mobility policy is aligned with the forecasts established by the Federal Planning Office, which are based on fewer train passengers, the continuing dominant role of the car, an increase in the number of trucks on the road, a decrease in average speed and an increase in traffic jams." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Frank Troosters and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Frank Troosters and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Mobility, - in view of the government's mobility plans to encourage more of our citizens to use the train; - in view of the objective of the Minister for Mobility to substantially increase the rail offer to two trains per hour at each station; - in view of the observation of the Federal Office of the Plan that fewer people will opt for the use of the train in the future; - in view of the observation of the Federal Office of the Plan that the car will remain the dominant means of transport in the future; - in view of the observation of the Federal Planning Office that the average speed on roads will decrease and the number of traffic jams will increase in the future; - in view of the observation of the Federal Planning Office that the number of trucks travelling on roads will increase by one fifth in the future; asks the government to take immediate steps to align the federal mobility policy with the forecasts as established by the Federal Planning Office and announcing a decrease in the number of rail passengers, the continued dominant role of the car, an increase in the number of trucks on roads, a decrease in the average speed and an increase in the number of bottlings." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Nicolas Parent. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Nicolas Parent. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u48	Mr Minister, I was quite shocked when I asked for figures on SNCB's fleet with my written question. In reply to my question on the composition of the fleet, SNCB stated that SNCB's fleet consists of 607 vehicles, of which no CO2 emission-free vehicles are available. It concerns 470 diesel cars, 123 petrol cars and finally 14 hybrid cars. Given the fact that this government has set itself the target of reducing CO2 emissions in this country by 55% by 2030 and is therefore seeking to persuade citizens to use emission-free cars, it is strange and even appalling to note that, in particular, the public undertaking which, using the train, is intended to provide an ecological alternative to future mobility, will continue to operate exclusively with CO2 emissions. Are you aware of the composition of the SNCB fleet? Do you consider the composition of SNCB's fleet appropriate in the light of the CO2 reduction targets? What measures will you take in the short term to ensure that SNCB takes better account of its role as a model for environmental transport and adapts the fleet?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u49	Mr Troasts, the transition to sustainable mobility by rail, by car or by other modes of transport such as the scooter is my policy. This applies not only to rail transport itself but also to wider management within SNCB and Infrabel. As public enterprises, they have a special role to play, including in the area of sustainability which I wish to promote. On 18 March 2022, the federal government concluded an important energy agreement, with the aim of accelerating the transition to green energy consumption and thus ensuring Belgian energy independence. That agreement provides a prominent place for concrete green energy projects for SNCB and Infrabel, for which they will be financially supported by the government. We will be discussing in committee the concrete projects on green energy which will or will speed up the development of both railway companies. In reply to your written question, I also referred to the Federal Sustainable Development Plan, which provides for an accelerated greening of the public fleet, but also, for example, the promotion of bicycle use by federal officials. In addition, SNCB has provided me with some information about its internal policy to discourage the use of cars as much as possible. SNCB owns 607 passenger cars or trucks. The vast majority of this fleet consists of service cars, which are used all over the country to support train services. In addition, SNCB intends to reduce the number of service cars by about 15% over the next 10 years. In recent years, SNCB has substantially renewed the existing fleet, reducing the average CO2 emissions from the fleet. It is, of course, the intention of SNCB to continue to green the fleet by drastically increasing the number of orders for electric vehicles. SNCB notes, however, that many plug-in hybrid and electric vehicles ordered in 2021 were still not delivered by a global problem that almost everyone knows. In the meantime, SNCB is also looking at the best practices with regard to the associated charging infrastructure it will need. In addition, 3.324 SNCB employees last year used the bicycle to come to work and receive a corresponding bicycle fee. That's a practice I want to encourage. That is why, on my initiative, the federal government has recently released EUR 240 million in three years to promote commuting by bicycle. As far as the public service contract is concerned, you know that the negotiations we are conducting with SNCB are in full swing, as are those with Infrabel. I cannot go into that in detail at the moment. I can assure you that sustainability in the broad sense will be an important pillar of these contracts. It is my wish to take this opportunity to join forces with SNCB and to green the fleet even faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u50	Minister, I have not really received an answer to my question on how this will be resolved in the short term. Infrabel and SNCB obviously have an exemplary role to play in terms of sustainability. All kinds of green projects, stimulating bicycle use and cycling fees, that's all fine as far as I'm concerned. Of course, we have to wait for the delivery of cars. In reality, however, not one of the 607 cars is emission-free. However, I heard you say that measures have been taken recently to renew the fleet. How is that possible? That might have been those 14 hybrid cars. It's really shocking. Everyone has to move towards emission-free cars, which is expensive for some people. Some people think the government's putting the middle finger on them. I do not really hear a ready-made solution to the problem here. It is said that sustainability is an important pillar of management contracts. We will see it all again, but I have not heard any solution with regard to SNCB's fleet, which is very polluting. I will therefore table a motion for a recommendation. I have set out a number of objectives which I will save you further. However, we ask that the government immediately take the necessary measures so that SNCB can better take its role as a model for ecological transport and adapt the fleet accordingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u51	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Frank Toventors and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Frank Toventors and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Mobility, - considering the government's mobility plans to lead more people to the use of the train; - considering the Federal Government's objective of achieving a 55% CO2 reduction by 2030; - considering that emissions-free commercial vehicles will become the standard in 2026; - considering that SNCB as a public undertaking has an exemplary role to play in environmental transport modes; asks the government immediately take the necessary measures to ensure that SNCB takes better account of its role as a model for environmental transport and to this end an adaptation of the fleet will be carried out." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Frank Troosters and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Frank Troosters and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Mobility, - in view of the government's mobility plans to encourage more of our citizens to use the train; - with regard to the federal government's target of reducing CO2 emissions by 55% by 2030; - in view of the fact that zero-emission company cars will be the norm in 2026; - in view of the fact that SNCB has, as a public undertaking, an exemplary role in the field of environmentally friendly means of transport; asks the government take immediate steps to ensure that SNCB takes more of its role as an example in environmental transport and that its fleet is adapted in this direction." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Nicolas Parent. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Nicolas Parent. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u52	Minister, I come to see you very little, often in this committee, but don't be sad! Your colleagues who see me a lot might prefer to see me a little less. When I come to see you, it's often because I've been arrested by local elected officials. Last time, it was Ath's mayor. Today, it is socialist friends of the municipality of Leuze-en-Hainaut who are concerned. Why? Because, since 1 November 2021, the windows of several stations in the country have been closed, including those of Leuze-en-Hainaut, de facto leading commuters to automatic terminals or the purchase of tickets online. This decision, as everyone knows, has an impact on people with reduced mobility and people with the digital divide, such as some older people. The station of Leuze-en-Hainaut, which still has 11,200 climbs a week, has become ghost and subject to regular acts of vandalism and delinquency due to the absence of SNCB personnel. The place is, according to local elected officials, simply abandoned. Today I am relaying to these people who, like many stations, demand the permanent presence of a SNCB agent. They want the guarantee that the station will remain open under this legislature and insist that the management contract 2022-2026 must be accompanied by financial means to improve service to the public. Minister, can you first assure us that Leuze-en-Hainaut station will remain open until at least 2024? In order to maintain continuity in the service to the public, to ensure the safety of commuters and to preserve the stations as places of life, is there an alternative in the communes where the windows have been closed since last November? If so, what reassuring information can I give these elected officials to give them clear perspectives on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u53	Thank you, Mr. Prévot. It is always a pleasure to see you even if it would have been more reasonable to be closer to your home today. Fortunately, SNCB trains can quickly take you back to Soignies in case of an emergency. Mr Prévot, following the SNCB's decision to close a series of railway station counters, I requested and obtained that SNCB systematically contact all the municipalities concerned in order to find solutions for the conversion of closed windows and to make the stations as alive as possible, to give them a new life. As part of this project called "station life", calls for projects adapted to the local context have been launched. Many local and various activities were presented. Projects of general interest of a social nature, as is the case in Jette, or of service to the population as in Gouvy in the province of Luxembourg, or of commercial initiatives, with the particular feature that the buildings of the stations can be made available at a cost to the NSAs or the public authorities. SNCB provides me with a regular report of its contacts with the municipalities concerned. SNCB insists that it keeps the station open and accessible to passengers in the best possible conditions of safety and comfort. This is how the waiting room remains accessible, open and heated. Staff regularly visit the premises and maintenance is carried out several times a week. Meetings have taken place, since this is of particular interest to you, between the SNCB and the municipality of Leuze about the future of its building. SNCB informs me that a convention agreement could be reached, very recently, with the municipal college of Leuze-en-Hainaut on this subject. So it's a scoop. I welcome this and have been told that it would be initiatives around tourism, cycling and short tours, which is a very interesting prospect and I hope that you will soon have the opportunity to visit the places and enjoy them with companion and children.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u54	I thank you, Minister, for your answer, which is such as to reassure the people who have questioned me, I have no doubt. So here's a scoop in this hot afternoon. You give me as information that a cooperation agreement could be reached with the municipal college around certainly interesting initiatives, which would allow to maintain an animation within the stations. Like you, I remain convinced that this is essential and, in particular, in stations that are a little less frequented. This helps to avoid the feeling of insecurity, prevents acts of vandalism and it puts a little animation for commuters. I am glad to hear that a minimum service is provided: the waiting room is open, heated and regularly maintained and cleaned. This agreement signed with the college should allow for better animation and avoid acts of vandalism.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u55	Minister, I tabled this question a long time ago, shortly after a fire broke out on Sunday evening 13 March. There was another fire yesterday, bigger than the first one on the same site. Once again, the firefighters were present massively and neighbors had to close their windows and doors. These fires are the result of a month-long, or even years of neglect of the site by SNCB. There is no form of social control and on 13 March the space for community activities burned down. That is not a detail either. There is no alternative. I would like to read a response from the Ghent Arts meeting that is angry: "a second fire at the Arsenalsite in Gentbrugge. It's to be despondent. Just where our cultural platform would take shape. A collaboration between more than 20 organisations in the Ghent culture field. The fact that this site was abandoned by the SNCB and meanwhile for far too long without any kind of social control, is a shame. This while there are so many organizations, culture, catering, community work, here could do so many beautiful things. This second fire hurts the eyes. We see a lot of projects go up in smoke. This could have been avoided." Neighborhood residents who were already going to take a look, tell me more. The site is poorly secured. No window is intact anymore. There is no safe closure between the site and the railroad. The walls around the site are in very poor condition. Mothers from the neighborhood can't walk by with their kids. SNCB bears a great responsibility here and will have to compensate for the damage. More than that: additional resources are needed for the temporary implementation. Will SNCB give up part of its substantial profits from selling the site to the private sector in order to make the site ready for a successful temporary completion and to continue community activities? Was the deed of sale signed with the new owner at the time of the facts? Can you give me the exact date? What total damage have both fires caused on the site? Do you have a visual on that yet? Another question was what is the state of play with regard to sales. Has the assignment been completed? For what amount was the site finally sold?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u56	Mrs Vindevoghel, the answer will be shorter than the question. I fear that you will be disappointed by the answer that SNCB has given me. The answer is as follows. "Dear colleague, as you already know, SNCB has found a buyer for the Arsenal site in Ghent. Furthermore, it is not for SNCB but for the buyer to communicate about the agreed price. The authentic instrument became a thing of the past on March 28th this year." I can still tell you that SNCB launched a project call last year for the conclusion of a concession contract for a temporary completion of the site. That contract was concluded at the end of last year with a third party who has since been responsible for the maintenance and management of the site, as well as for its conclusion. There is an ongoing criminal investigation into the exact circumstances of the fire that occurred on 13 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u57	SNCB is a public undertaking, Minister. As a Member of Parliament, we do have a say in getting access to finance...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u58	There is now a private owner of the site. We're in a free country where people can...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u59	It's about the sale by SNCB. We're asking about the sale price. It is therefore a pertinent question and we, as a Member of Parliament, are entitled to an answer. In addition, the whole problem that is currently under way is incredibly poignant, Minister. A second fire broke out when something nice could have been built with the neighborhood working and the surroundings. Now it's totally ruined there and there's nothing left. The people in the neighborhood are also very concerned about the insecurity throughout the neighborhood because of the depravity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u60	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Jasper Pillen's 55025864C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u61	We were talking a moment ago about the problems of services caused by personnel problems, but I also referred to material problems in my question. For example, the delivery of the M7 trains is much delayed. This has an impact on the safety equipment objectives, both of the tracks and of the rolling stock that uses those tracks, targets that were put forward in 2010 or 2011 by the committee that examined the Buizingen train disaster. To what extent does the delayed delivery of the M7 vehicles interfere with the multi-annual plans for the introduction of the European Train Control System (ETCS)? How are we getting on with the delivery of M7 trains today? How many M7s have actually been delivered? What does the adjusted liver schedule look like for the rest of 2022? In other words, how many new trains can we expect this year? Were contractual compensation laid down if Bombardier-Alstom does not deliver the ordered trains in time? Which trains would be decommissioned in 2023 according to the multi-annual plans? How many trains are we talking about? Is it being considered to keep the obsolete equipment in service for a longer period of time, whether out of necessity or not because the new trains come later? If so, which and how many? Will these couples still be equipped with ETCS? The initial plan was not to invest anymore in the obsolete train sets: after all, ETCS costs a lot of money and the couples would almost be taken out of service. In view of the situation, is the objective of the introduction of ETCS on all SNCB's rolling stock still feasible by the end of 2022? What steps are being taken to achieve the objective?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u62	Mr President, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u63	Colleagues, SNCB informs me of the following with regard to the delivery of M7 equipment. On 1 May 2022 142 AIFM vehicles, 31 BDX steering stations without traction and 37 BMX steering stations should be provided with traction. At the beginning of May, 108 AIFM vehicles, 12 BDX steering stations and 13 BMX steering stations were effectively delivered, which are used for the commercial service and for training for SNCB escorts and drivers on the new M7 trains. SNCB expects to have 175 AIFM vehicles, 27 BDX vehicles and 41 BMX vehicles by the end of 2022 on the basis of the current cadence of deliveries. This will amount to a delay of about 50 to 60 carriages. Indeed, the M7 contract provides for fines in case of non-time delivery. The following types of obsolete rolling stock will be systematically removed from service during the period 2019-2025 depending on the arrival of M7 cars: - 103 MR2L, which means 206 cars in service since 1966, equivalent to 18,300 seats; - 554 M4 cars in service since 1979, equivalent to 51,522 seats or seats; - 40 I6 cars in service since 1977 equivalent to 610 seats; - 91 I10 cars in service since 1987 and equivalent to 4,980 seats; - 59 HLE27 locomotives in operation since 1981; - 32 HLE21 locomotives in operation since 1984. I hear a lot of pessimism about the difficulties on the network today. A lot of agents here are saying, "Mr. Minister, nothing changes." These cars are coming. Simply, a builder took a little late. I hope you don't consider this to be my responsibility. I do expect SNCB to follow the case closely, but there is an industrial problem that I regret with you. The improvement is coming. Those who have already been able to use these M7 cars appreciate their comfort. The second part of the order has been corrected so that the accessibility of cars is greater than was originally planned by my predecessor. Indeed, it is very important for passengers' comfort and punctuality to replace the obsolete equipment, as contractually agreed between SNCB and Alstom. SNCB is doing everything in its power to encourage the manufacturer of the M7, Alstom, to make up for the delay in the delivery of the equipment and also insists on the timely delivery of ETCS components, Mr Van den Bergh, for the equipment at all checkpoints. However, SNCB clearly maintains its objective of being able to remove all non-ETCS rolling stock from service by the end of 2023. This means that we are going to remove old equipment and introduce much more accessible, more comfortable and obviously also more environmentally friendly equipment. The change is on the track!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u64	Mr Minister, I will look at your answer again, because it contains a lot of figures. You took the word pessimism in connection with the trail in your mouth. I oppose that, because it is neither our role nor yours to manage the trail. That's what SNCB and Infrabel have to do. For the delivery we wait for an industrial company, which does not fully fulfil its commitment. But it's good to follow that. Firstly, a service has been agreed between the government and railway companies. Together, we must ensure that these companies provide the agreed services effectively. Secondly, Parliament did not deliver an unimportant piece of work in 2011 with the committee's recommendations that dealt with the Buizingen train disaster. My question arises from the concern that the objectives agreed at that time will be achieved effectively. I understand that people are on the right track, albeit with a little delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u65	I will also take a close look at the figures and listen to them. It is certainly important that the M7 train sets arrive. But I will never blame you for the delay, because you did not sign that contract at the time and you do not build the trains yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u66	Mr Roggeman, I share your view on this matter. It is important that the efforts of Belgian companies are appreciated and that the necessary steps are taken to give them the opportunity to validate their technology. You know, however, that SNCB is an autonomous public undertaking which can act independently in this type of case, which also has to justify any infringements. SNCB has recently received a letter from a party concerned in relation to the situation you describe. SNCB is currently studying them. Given the confidentiality, I cannot go into this further. It goes without saying, however, that I will follow with interest the outcome of this discussion and draw the necessary conclusions from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u67	Minister, the miracles are not out of the world, there is consensus between us. It is an interesting precedent in the negative sense. We will have to wait and see what a possible course of justice will bring. Hopefully this will not be repeated by SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u68	Minister, on 9 March I questioned you about the sale of 170 bpost newspaper shops, which belonged to the Ubiway network, to the gambling company Golden Palace. Of these, 43 are located in SNCB stations. I asked you at the time if there were any gambling terminals in those newspaper shops in the SNCB stations. You replied that SNCB's standard special terms on concession contracts do not provide for the possibility to place gambling terminals. You did not say whether or not there are effective gambling terminals in practice. I saw one myself at the station of Gent-Sint-Pieters. In the meantime, I know there's one in Zottegem. Last week I also saw a gambling terminal in a Brussels-Central newspaper shop. As a result, SNCB stated that there are still exceptions to the standard contract, which does not include the prohibition on the placing of gambling terminals. There would appear to be gambling terminals which were already authorised a few years ago. So, Minister, I would like to ask you a few more questions. How many gambling terminals are currently in the newspaper shops in the SNCB stations? Which stations are they in and since when? Can you confirm that for each terminal an authorisation was granted by SNCB? Has the new owner, Golden Palace, asked to place additional gambling terminals in newspaper shops in SNCB stations? If so, how many and in which stations? What was SNCB's answer to this question, if any? Then I come to my most important question. Do you agree with me that gambling terminals do not belong in a train station? Are you willing to have all the gaming terminals that are there today removed? Are you prepared to instruct SNCB not to allow gambling terminals in future in the newspaper shops in its stations?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u69	Mr Vandenbroucke, that is indeed a very topical debate. Following our last exchange of views in this committee, I once again questioned SNCB on this interesting and important subject. The Ubiway company has a framework agreement with SNCB on the operation of newspaper and neighbourhood shops under the Relay and Hubiz brands. The current agreement covers the period until 2026 for Relay and until 2030 for Hubiz. The concessions therefore run until 2026 and 2030. SNCB notes the change of shareholder that does not change the contractual obligations vis-à-vis SNCB. There are 45 concessions in SNCB's stations. It is allowed to sell lottery products in the concessions. In 2018, SNCB received a request from Ubiway to place a slot machine in ten concessions. This was authorised under a commercial agreement, which was confirmed by SNCB to me that it will not be renewed after the conclusion of the signed lease. In 2018 there was also another minister. In order to install a slot machine, a specific licence must be obtained for each concession. In this case, therefore, there are ten licences. The Gaming Commission delivers this permit which must be suspended in the business. SNCB is not itself responsible for the operating licence. It shall rent a space and the trader shall have the necessary authorisations for his activity. SNCB does not collect royalties on the sale of lottery and chance products. The number of vending machines has therefore not increased since 2018, even during the current legislative period. In fact, SNCB's intention is not to develop concessions devoted exclusively to games of chance, nor to increase the number of vending machines. Since 2018, no new vending machines have been allowed. I would like to pursue this policy together with SNCB. No further exceptions will be made to the principle of banning the installation of slot machines. I think it is essential that people are protected from gambling advertising and the serious consequences that gambling addiction can have. For me, this is a crucial task and responsibility of the government. Public enterprises, including SNCB and Infrabel, have an exemplary role to play. Finally, I would like to refer, if possible, to new regulations recently adopted by the government on the proposal of the Minister of Justice in the context of the protection of the population against gambling. For example, offices where sports betting is closed from 1 October will have to check the identity of their customers. That control should prevent minors or people on the list of excluded persons from making bets. In this way, people with problematic gambling behaviour are additionally protected. That rule is already being applied today in casinos and online betting, among others. The new regulation clearly demonstrates the commitment of the entire government to better protect our people from the destructive consequences of gambling addiction. I wasn't talking about publicity for games like that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u70	Minister, I have one comment to make, but I do not want to cast a stone at you. It is strong that I have to wait two months to get the data I asked for on 9 March. They were not in your reply at the time, and the SNCB did not provide them until after I myself distributed a picture through the press showing that there are actually slot machines. Apparently, there are ten of them, which were approved four years ago. I find that remarkable. I think it is very positive that you want to ensure that the number of vending machines is certainly not increased. I'm curious to see what Golden Palace will think of that, because of course they didn't buy those newspaper stores to sell newspapers, but to place more slot machines. I fully agree with your view that SNCB and by extension the government has an exemplary role, but it would be consistent with the government's anti-gambling policy not to wait for the end of the framework agreements in 2026 and 2030, but to see how these ten slot machines can be removed from the SNCB station as soon as possible. A slot machine has no added value in a train station.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u71	I refer to the written version of my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u72	The Passenger Rights Service of the Directorate-General for Aviation (DGLV) received 3,605 complaints in 2020, both asking for information and complaints about delays and cancellations. In 2021, there were 1,679 complaints or questions; there were fewer flights. The Passenger Rights Service aims to deal with complaints within 6 months. There are therefore still complaints for flights from 2020 and 2021. If the service considers that an air carrier has failed to comply with the European Regulation, it may transfer the file to the competent DGLV department, which may draw up a report for possible sanctions. However, the Passenger Rights Service of DGLV has not yet used the procedure. The penalty procedure is demanding, requires the intervention of the public prosecutor and imposes a significant operational burden on the airlines and the authorities. It is preferable not to initiate long-term criminal proceedings and to focus on flexible and permanent contacts with airlines and passengers in the form of dialogue. I am also always addressing the drivers of airlines, including those of Brussels Airlines, since the start of my mandate. As regards the revision of the European regulation on passenger rights, the Commission presented a new proposal in 2013. In the Council, the work in the file has been suspended since 2015. In 2019, the Finnish Presidency, through a workshop, and the Commission, through a study presented at the beginning of 2020, revived the dossier. But the corona crisis shifted political attention and negotiations were stopped. By COOVID-19, a number of Member States are putting pressure on the Commission to adapt its proposal to address also the pandemic-related aspects, such as vouchers. The recent Presidents of the Member States decided not to continue the work. The Commission is currently reviewing its amendment proposal. The publication is expected in the first quarter of 2023. It is clear that passengers' rights must be protected. Furthermore, the Special Report of the European Court of Auditors calls on the Commission to submit legislative proposals to strengthen proactive monitoring by national enforcement bodies. This is, for example, through reporting obligations for carriers towards national enforcement bodies, and through inspection, checking that air carriers inform passengers of their rights in a timely, correct and complete manner. These recommendations are interesting in order to better protect passengers' rights. For my part, I contacted my colleagues Dermagne and De Bleeker, who are responsible for consumer protection, to consider extending the limitation period for actions based on European passenger rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. The figures you give up, 3,605 complaints and questions in 2020 are significant and show that there was indeed a problem with airlines during the corona period. During that period, I have often asked questions about it myself. Then you kept saying that there were no major problems at all, until the European Court of Auditors itself put your nose on the facts. Annemie Turtelboom, who gave us an explanation here, also laughed and noticed that you were at the wrong end, if you claimed that there were no problems. How do we deal with the problem? A sanction procedure is provided for. You say it's a tough procedure and you prefer not to use it. All right, I understand that this is a tough procedure, but maybe it's just because airlines know that it's not being applied, that they're not fulfilling their obligations. You say that you prefer to engage in dialogue with the airlines. That may be good, but if the airlines do not fulfil their obligations, there is still a need for something else, a firmer stick behind the door, so that consumers can avail themselves of the rights they have. I hope you will be stronger in this respect. I had also specifically asked what you will do with the recommendations for our country of the European Court of Auditors to better address the issue. As you remain silent on these recommendations, I assume that you will not respond to any recommendation and think you know it better than the European Court of Auditors. The European regulation on passenger rights is a long-term work. The work has stopped since 2015. They were revived for a while in 2020, but now they're still. You indicate that a number of Member States had asked for the covid aspects to be included. I don't know if our country was there. In any case, you have not shown this in your reply. A new proposal from the European Commission would be presented in 2023. However, I had asked, among other things, very specifically about our country's position. In fact, the rights of air passengers will be greatly reduced if the European Commission's proposals now on the table become a reality. A passenger would only be entitled to compensation after a much longer delay in the flight. You have not answered my question. You indicate that you will do so in consultation with your colleagues Dermagne and De Bleeker. I asked Secretary of State De Bleeker another question about this in April 2020. She has assured me that she will keep an eye on the file. You cannot blame me for having more confidence in Secretary of State De Bleeker, who is responsible for Consumer Protection, than in you, to ensure that consumers have the rights they deserve. I will certainly follow the file very closely. I hope that when you sit there at the table, you will not forget this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u74	Mrs Van Bossuyt, I do not think you have listened carefully to the end of my reply. I'll repeat it. The recommendations of the European Court of Auditors are interesting in order to better protect passengers' rights. Interesting means positive. For my part, I contacted my colleagues Dermagne and De Bleeker, who are responsible for consumer protection, to consider extending the limitation period for actions based on European passenger rights. Today I have received a positive response to my proposal from my good colleague Eva De Bleeker. We shall therefore continue to do so. You do not have the monopoly on protecting air passengers' rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u75	Minister, I am very happy with this consumer protection measure. But there is also a need to adapt the provisions on delays. Now, after three hours of delay, we are already entitled to compensation, but this is being extended to five hours, which I do not think is a good signal at all. You have not addressed this aspect, even though it is important for many air passengers. Air carriers must be given the signal that their flights must leave on time. I have asked State Secretary De Bleeker questions about cancelled flights by Ryanair, as it appears difficult for air passengers to enforce their rights. We must therefore at all times avoid making it even more difficult for passengers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u76	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 55, by Mrs Zanchetta Mr Raskin has been postponed to 55025979C.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u77	Minister, we keep knocking on the same nail. The financing of SNCB and Infrabel is crucial if we are to move forward in the area of mobility. The corona crisis, the energy crisis and the war in Ukraine are not making it any easier. Minister, how has the debt situation of SNCB and Infrabel evolved over the last five years? How many debts do both companies have to bear today? Have debt ceilings been set for both public undertakings? If so, how high are they? What influence does the war in Ukraine have on the functioning of SNCB and Infrabel? Is there, for example, a financial impact of the war on freight transport or international trains and night trains? Do both companies still have a budget for recruitment in 2022? Will you intervene as Minister so that SNCB can develop into a public train company of the future? What measures will you take to ensure this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u78	Those are interesting questions. I will repeat some of the things I have already said in the topical and urgent debate. We also discussed this issue in the committee on 8 February. I refer to the answers I gave to the oral questions. I can also give you the answer in writing. Mrs Vindevoghel, you are asking me whether the war in Ukraine has an impact on the functioning of SNCB? The answer is, of course, yes. On my question, SNCB is doing its part of the effort, as is the rest of the country. SNCB specifically focuses on its supporting and practical role in managing and controlling refugee flows to our country. It ensures that Ukrainian residents can take the train to our country for free and are efficiently referred to the registration centre on the Heysel in our country's major stations. Infrabel will also receive exceptional public support of €82 million for the cost of energy and the impact of the indexation of personnel that is very important. As far as your question on recruitment is concerned, there are ongoing recruitment campaigns for railway staff. The vast majority concern the operational core function of SNCB, e.g. train escorts, technicians and staff of Securail. For example, SNCB has just launched a large employee branding campaign, with 1,300 new colleagues being sought. The most sought-after profiles are technicians, train escorts, train drivers and station staff. As far as Infrabel is concerned, Infrabel is also constantly looking for new employees for different profiles. Through actions such as Job Day, a recruitment campaign, or via Infrabel Academy, Infrabel tries to attract suitable profiles, which is not always a simple task. However, I am trying to help them by speaking positively about the train. I hope you'll want to do the same. Finally, investing in rail means investing in people. The train crew as a whole is the cornerstone of the track. That is why this government invests heavily in the railways and in the many women and men who drive the train every day. If there are more trains, we need more train escorts. That is also very important to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u79	Mr Minister, I will keep my reply brief. Otherwise, I'm gonna repeat myself. We've already held a hearing on Infrabel. The budgets for Infrabel have not been increased compared to the past. They've been lowered. I must honestly say that I still have a lot of questions about how you will deliver on all the projects and proposals you are offering with the limited budgets that are currently available. We'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u80	Minister, during the last two years there have been regular questions in this committee about the payment of station parking throughout the country. That's a theme that comes back with the regularity of a clock. You always indicated that you are not in favour of free parking. In practice, we find that free parking spaces at the stations are systematically disappearing and making way for paying parking spaces. I regret that and do not think that is a good choice. I believe that parking at the station makes it difficult to keep people just in the car. In any case, I read a remarkable proposal from Green a few weeks ago. This was posted on www.vrt.be on 12 March 2022 and it is still online today. According to that proposal, all station parkings must be free of charge. I think that is a good proposal and I fully agree with it. The problem is that the green policy is exactly the opposite. The ecologists make the free parkings just paying. What is the position of Ecolo-Green? As a green minister, what do you think of this green proposal? Do you follow your group? Do you reconsider your policy of paying parking in SNCB's car parks or do you disagree with the ecologists in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u81	Mr Roggeman, I did not know that the parking spaces at SNCB were free during the previous legislature, but I may not have been properly informed. I would like to begin my answer by saying that I support and encourage any measure that facilitates the taking of the train. The same applies to the route to and from the station, which we must also make more attractive. Together with SNCB, I am developing a strategic vision 2022-2033 in the framework of the negotiations for the new public service contract, which should make it easier for passengers to switch from train to other means of transport. The parking facilities for bicycles and cars are part of this intermodal strategy. I refer in particular to the cycling-train strategy which provides for an increase of 50% in the number of bicycles in railway stations. In addition, my cabinet is working with SNCB to better align the train with the regional transport offer. Where possible, I will encourage the use of bicycles as much as possible to go to and from the station. For reasons of nuance, in urban areas, the provision of free parking can be detrimental to mobility and the environment, as it has a suction effect on vehicles causing congestion, which have a negative impact on air quality. In rural areas, of course, the reality is different, with another place for the car, for which I fully understand. As mentioned above, the public service contract is currently being negotiated with SNCB. The issue of whether or not to make the parkings pay is part of the ongoing calls.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u82	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I had hoped to hear a clear position, but there is not. You are making positive arguments. Any measure that makes the track more attractive must be supported. In that logic, free parking should once again become the norm, but at the same time you say that free parking in urban areas can be detrimental to air quality. That is a counter-argument. So far, you have always supported SNCB's policy of making the parking spaces pay. Your group is apparently opposed to this today and you are keeping the church in the middle. What is the policy's position on this? You refer to the new management contract and say that you are not yet able to comment on its outcome. We will have to see that, but at least you could clarify your own position on the matter. You take a bipolar point of view that is far from clear. Perhaps Mr Parent can tell us what the position of Ecolo-Groen is on this matter, because you did not provide us with any clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u83	Mr Roggeman, bipolarity is a disease, so you should use another word.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u84	Question No 55026119C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u85	Mr President, Minister, on March 9, I asked you about the cleanliness of the properties and works of art of Infrabel and SNCB. During our exchanges, you asked me to identify more precisely the sites to which I referred. Today, it's done. It is, in fact, essentially the bridge of the high-speed line No. 2, at the exit of motorway No. 29 from the E40 motorway in Waremme. This bridge is marked on one hand, which does not fail to give a deplorable picture of the public cleanliness of the city of Waremme when it is a property belonging to the railway estate. As is the case with any owner – I know the task is hard – we have the right to ask Infrabel and SNCB to maintain their property as a good father in order to ensure a more harmonious living-together. Minister, now that this bridge is identified – there are others, but it is essentially the one that poses a problem – I repeat to you the questions I asked you at the time. How do you intend to contribute to this recurring problem? To what extent can you strengthen the cleaning teams in order to highlight the art works because, as I said before, "Now you have to rub!" Some people have to stick to it, even if you're not more responsible than I for this vandalism.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u86	Mr President, Mr Rigot, as I told you during our last exchange, Infrabel must be regarded as the first victim of these degradations, since it is his heritage which is deteriorating in the case in question, the second victims being the people who have to undergo these visual degradations. These are acts of vandalism that are never acceptable. In the event of damage and the savage deposit of immondices, a complaint shall be lodged with the competent police authorities. Infrabel suffers from this kind of disrespectful behaviour and environmental infringements and frequently has to bear significant costs arising from the cleaning of slopes or the vicinity of railway installations. I regret this because it is public resources that would be more usefully used to maintain the network. In some specific and highly visible areas, it has been possible to establish partnerships with artists to create works on dedicated walls for this purpose. But, for the rest, it is unfortunately impossible to monitor the entire railway heritage, which is therefore at the mercy of the talent, sometimes very relative, of the tagueurs of the country. Infrabel is an autonomous public enterprise. It is not up to the minister to order him to have tags removed at specific places of his heritage, which has no less than 6,500 km of main roads, more than 10,000 works of art, not to mention the various buildings and technical installations. On the other hand, my role as Minister of Mobility is to ensure that Infrabel maintains all the property, buildings and land owned by him in the most appropriate manner possible, in accordance with the tasks entrusted to him, and that Infrabel has sufficient means to do so. That is what I am working on with the support, I hope, of all the political families that are members of the government. The maintenance of these properties is an element that will still be included in its future performance contract. We are working to improve the situation with my team and with Infrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u87	Minister, thank you for your answer. It's true that I didn't expect a miracle. I am well aware of the significant volume of work for Infrabel. I'm a man of cleanliness in Waremme. When there are canine dumps, I'm not responsible, even if I have a dog. When there are underground depots, I'm not responsible, even if I have garbage. However, I cannot tell the Waremmen that this is not my responsibility and I cannot leave it there. I have to intervene because I want a clean city, I want it to feel good and I want everyone to realize that a clean environment is a pleasant environment that we respect more. In this case, Infrabel is actually a victim. Nevertheless, Infrabel still has this important role to play in combating these incivilities and ensuring that it has an image of a clean site, which also guarantees the image of a city like Waremme. I really want to. I know these are complicated fights, but if we don't lead them and let them do it, there are no limits tomorrow. We have vandalism and tags everywhere. I wish we could catch these artists – I like art, but not when it's done that way. Otherwise, we must fight this vandalism and absolutely eliminate it – not artists, but vandalism. We have to put the means in it. I hope we can make it one day because I love my city and I want it to be beautiful and clean.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u88	Mr President,
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u89	Mrs Vindevoghel, if I understand correctly, the person in question would have obtained his German driving licence after the exchange of an Ukrainian driving licence. This is a case of red tape, as you call it. The formalities mentioned by you make sense to prevent the introduction into the European Union of driving licences which do not comply with European standards. The recognition of foreign driving licences from outside the EU, for example from Ukraine, has remained a competence of each Member State. Many Member States, such as Belgium, are bound by international recognition agreements parallel to the European system. The European harmonisation of driving licences has not put an end to these international legal instruments. Therefore, foreign driving licences can be exchanged in most European countries under bilateral agreements or the 1986 Vienna Convention on Road Traffic. Conditions for recognition and exchange may vary from one country to another. Therefore, the code 70 is given on each European driving licence after the exchange of a non-European driving licence. According to this code, there is no automatic recognition in other Member States. This is for the logic of the system. With regard to the case you mentioned, the exchange is indeed possible as Ukrainian driving licences are recognised in Belgium, including for categories C and D, trucks and coaches, even if the original Ukrainian driving licence has been exchanged in another Member State, as is shown by code 70. The letter to the municipalities was not really clear at this point, but was corrected in mid-March 2022. Finally, municipalities that have doubts, I recommend contacting the FPS Mobility, which is doing a very good job in this area, as in other areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u90	Thank you for your answer. In the meantime, it's settled. But I'm glad I got the whole explanation on how everything works exactly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u91	Ms. Song cannot be present to ask her question no. 55026203C.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u92	Mr President, Minister, in response to one of my written questions from May 2020, your predecessor told me that the Ciney-Hatrival section is currently being planned for completion by the end of 2027, on the basis of the conditions and constraints known today." At the meeting of the Mobility Committee on 20 October 2021, you advanced the fact that a conclusion of work for 2028 remains realistic, provided that the financial resources are available." Recently, it was also read that 2029 was announced by the unions in an article in the daily newspaper Le Soir. I was also questioned by 2030, which was mentioned in Walloon parliamentary debates. As you will have understood, Minister, there is a complete blur around the end date of Axis 3, which is a fundamental axis, a backbone for mobility in the province of Luxembourg. Mr Minister, in order to finally have a clear heart, can you enlighten this committee and the Luxembourg citizens who will follow us on the date of the end of Axis 3's work? What is the estimated year for this deadline in the current state of Infrabel's finances, i.e. excluding any new aid granted to the public undertaking outside the annual allocation of the Federal State? If new financial aid, whether federal or European, were to be released, to what extent would it be possible to speed up the work?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u93	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Hanus, my answer will be broader than the scope of your questions, as it also includes Ms. Song's questions. As you pointed out, of the EUR 250 million allocated by the Federal Government for rail, EUR 180 million will be allocated for the development of freight transport. This new amount, in addition to the resources already set out in the Boost Plan and the European Recovery Plan, is fully in line with my ambition to double the volume of goods transported by rail by 2030. This objective will eventually avoid 42,000 trucks on our roads as well as the emission of 1.5 million tonnes of CO2 per year, because transporting more goods by rail is creating a virtuous circle: less CO2 emissions, less congestion and more safety on roads. In response to your specific questions, Montzen, which is the gateway to Germany for the international transport of goods from Belgian ports, will therefore benefit from all the investments necessary to strengthen the attractiveness of rail freight. In concrete terms, the means of the 2030 transition plan will allow the preservation of the long-lived routes in the Monzen freight bundle. Work is planned for 2023. With regard to the possibilities of connecting to railway zonings, Infrabel via its current account management team specifically accompanies each concrete request received to take into account the specific needs of each customer in order to offer an adapted service. In addition, Madame Chanson, my ambition is to make rail the backbone of mobility in Belgium. To do this, it is imperative to increase the supply of trains to arrive, by 2040, at a train every half hour in each ad minima station. This will be done gradually, but in reality the offer is already increasing as on line 42 (Liège-Gouvy-Luxembourg), where the offer was doubled in December 2020 from one train every two hours to one train per hour. In Liège-Guillemins, the connection to Brussels is organised in 6 to 7 minutes making the trip by train Gouvy-Brussels very competitive compared to the car. In addition, as part of the discussions on SNCB's future public service contract, we are exploring the possibility of reopening breakpoints and the criteria to be taken into account for these reopenings. In any case, when opening a new station, a cost/benefit analysis is always carried out and incorporates, among other things, the number of potential travellers attracted by this new stop or possible connections with other means of transport. Mrs Hanus, in addition to freight transport, 42 of the 250 million of the 2030 transition plan are allocated to the modernisation of axis 3 between Brussels and Luxembourg, which I consider to be just as important as you consider it. The modernisation of axis 3 is a major project to improve the link between Brussels, Luxembourg and Strasbourg in order to increase the attractiveness of rail and reduce car traffic on motorways. This construction site is of an exceptional size: 175 km of line to be modernised, re-electrified, equipped with signs, ten curves to be corrected, 80 works of art to be renewed, 28 crossings to be deleted, four stations to be renovated and I pass. With the additional resources of the Transition Plan, the planned investment work will be accelerated to ensure that the upgraded rail link is put into service as quickly as possible. I cannot announce a date that would not be reliable, but know that I am making every effort to ensure that this is done as quickly as possible, bearing in mind that a project of such magnitude inevitably requires significant delays. Work cannot be done in different parts of the line if the trains are to be allowed to pass. This type of work requires harmonious planning so that it can succeed in a specific order. It is therefore important to take into account also the permits, the availability of subcontractors and the necessary track cuts, on the understanding that you do not want me to be permanently interrupted for one or two years. That wouldn't be tenable. The next important steps ahead are the beginning of the modernization and re-electrification of the Grupont-Hatrival section in March 2022; the change in voltage from 3 kV to 25 kV of the section between Hatrival and Barnich on line 162 in August 2022; the completion of the renovation of the Ciney station in December 2022; the start of the renovation of the Marloie station in January 2023. As you can see, the work is moving forward and progressing even well. This is, in any case, one of the issues that I pay great attention to, and for which the federal government has already identified considerable resources. You can count on me to continue to do so, including with my Luxembourg colleague François Bausch.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u94	Mr President, Mr Minister, as you know, this axis is fundamental for commuters in the province of Luxembourg. Getting a precise timetable was and still is a necessity to answer the many questions of the citizens who are concerned by this line. I thank you for the answers you provide, but of course I remain on my hunger. You won't be surprised. As you said earlier in another reply, rail time is a long time. It's too long here. Let me tell you! My colleague read in a 2012 SPW report that Axis 3 was scheduled to be completed by 2022, this year. Today, we're talking about 2030. Almost twenty years of work to modernise this fundamental rail axis between Belgium and Luxembourg. As we can say, it is almost the train that would allow us to go back in time, given the time it still takes for commuters to travel from Luxembourg to Brussels. Fortunately, there are ways to speed things up. Recently, I mentioned here in committee the additional European funds to go and, above all, to be allocated. We continue to hope that this work will one day conclude. We will continue to ask you about the follow-up and progress of this issue, even though we are losing some hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u95	Minister, it is a procession of Echternach! The works started in 2010, have been stationary between 2018 and 2021, then started again, but are now still, hence my question. There is no permit for the pumping of groundwater that appears on the surface after the ground displacements. According to the competent ships Tine Heyse van Groen, SNCB's application is not well argued and is feared for the destruction of the neighborhood. Is it true that SNCB's application for authorisation to pump the groundwater was not properly argued? How long will this keep the works quiet? When will they resume? What financial impact will this have on SNCB? Will the station be fully ready by 2027?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u96	Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u97	In response to your questions about the Ghent-Sint-Pieters station, SNCB provided me with the following information. In consultation with the city of Ghent, the province of East Flanders and the Flemish Environmental Agency, SNCB and the contractor concerned for the Gent-Sint-Pieters project have taken the necessary steps to submit an amended permit application to temporarily pump groundwater away from the renovation works at the station. This modified permit application was submitted on 14 March and was approved last week, which is good news. This permit was necessary in order to continue working on the foundations and construction of new underground spaces in the station, for example a new bicycle parking. Due to climate change, more and more attention is paid to the effects of groundwater control. This is reflected in a changed policy and reinforced chalk lines by the competent authority. In view of the changed context, it was considered by the consultant of that body that the application for authorisation did not provide sufficient guarantees to ensure that the removal of groundwater and its over-pumping in the near watercourse did not have an adverse impact on the soil water system. Both the city of Ghent and the Flemish Environmental Company therefore gave a negative opinion on the permit for the disposal of groundwater. Consequently, the amended permit application paid particular attention to the quality of the water to be discharged, to the identification of the influence of known possible contaminants near the station, to the level of peak flow rates, to the possibilities of return reduction and to the location of the discharge point. In any case, SNCB will do everything in its power to achieve the 2027 timing to complete the work. Finally, no significant financial impact is expected due to this delay in the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u98	As a matter of fact, yesterday a news item was about the new rules on water pumping so that they are better in line with environmental standards. We naturally support proper regulation of these standards. I sincerely hope that the works can be continued as soon as possible so that the station can be fully completed by 2027.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u99	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u100	Mr President, Minister, I am addressing a black spot on our rail network. For several years now, railway commuters 96 (Brussels-Mons-Frameries-Quévy) and 97 (Brussels-Mons-Saint-Ghislain-Quievrain), two extremely important axes for the Hainaut, have complained of recurring delays, train cancellations, obsolete rolling stock, insufficient speeds and problems with connection and communication. These punctuality problems, which generate stress and stress at work, are not conducive to the choice of train to move. In March 2020, again, the minister in office, on behalf of SNCB and Infrabel, promised the commuter associations permanent attention for these axes. In the course of October, you announced an additional EUR 250 million over three years, to see "more trains driving" and "make the stations more accessible". Since these axes have been the subject of "permanent attention" by Infrabel and SNCB for the last two years, I cannot imagine that the effects on the ground are not perceptible. However, the commuters will confirm to you that this is the case. Minister, what about the situation of the railway lines on lines 96 and 97? Will any measures be taken to ensure the maintenance and improvement of the punctuality and equipment of these vital lines for the Hainaut? What investments are planned? On what schedule? What about the aspect of improving the accessibility of railway stations? Are stations on these axes specifically targeted?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u101	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, you know my ambition and that of the government to make rail the backbone of mobility in Belgium. To do this, we must increase the transport supply, make it always more reliable and punctual, but also make stations and trains more accessible. This applies to Western Hainaut as well as to all other parts of our country. The supply of trains has already increased by 5% under the transport plan 2020-2023 with, for example, trains later in the evening around Mons and the service to Quévy, on the weekend, by train between Gramont and Mons. I intend to amplify this trend further in the coming years in order to have, as soon as possible, even better connections as we put it in the framework of Vision 2040 for rail. In particular with regard to Western Hainaut, SNCB informs me that work at Mons station plays an undeniable role in the availability or non-availability of tracks at the station. The train station operators of Mons therefore limit, as far as possible, the number of lane changes and opt for them only as a last resort in order to guarantee as many connections as possible. From 6.50 a.m. to 7.20 a.m., due to work at the station, all accessible lanes are occupied. Given the limited number of accessible lanes, trains cannot, especially if they are not on the original track, wait for connecting passengers and must quickly clear the track in order to avoid cascading delays. The more a train crosses connecting nodes, the more likely it is to accumulate delays. On lines 96 and 97, there is a node of correspondence in Mons, Jurbise, Braine-le-Comte and Brussels. This can lead to delays. With each new transportation plan, SNCB is exploring all possibilities and making its offer as safe and stable as possible in order to ensure the best possible connections and minimize delays. Investments are actually planned on these important rail routes over the period 2022-2024, for a total amount of around EUR 55 million, as part of the investment resources obtained for rail since the beginning of the legislature. These means will be used, for example, to renew the rails and ties of the section between Jurbise and Mons in the course of 2022, before the same section was re-electrified in 2023 and 2024. This year, the crossings of the section between Mons and Saint-Ghislain will also be renewed. In addition, these facilities will also be useful for upgrading and extending the docks at the Tubize station this year before installing elevator cages to access the docks (work planned for 2024). To make rail the backbone of mobility in Belgium, in addition to a robust network and a network of reliable and punctual trains, accessibility is also essential. As a reminder, of the 85 stations that are fully independently accessible in our country today, my goal as well as that of the government is to reach 150 autonomous stations by 2025 and 250 stations by 2030. Of the EUR 250 million for rail in the budget conclave for 2022, EUR 28 million is specifically allocated to make our stations autonomous like that of Tubize. These new resources are in addition to those already obtained under the Boost Plan and the European Recovery Plan. As a reminder, this amounted to €365 million in investment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u102	I am not sure, minister, that the words used will reassure commuters, because between what you say and their daily lives, there is a gap! Many commuters are in trouble across the country. The commuters on these two lines are really unloved. I have the numbers of punctuality on hand: delays of more than six minutes! Not two-minute delays. These figures show that the situation is really very bad. In some months, figures show less than 50% punctuality on some lines. During peak hours, it is generally and permanently bad. We've been told the same thing for years! Where we are told that there will be significant and permanent attention for the past two years, there is no change. I like com' with big slogans "two trains per hour in all stations"! But what commuters are asking for is that the current service be provided and guaranteed. A delay of one or two minutes from time to time is not a drama. But a lack of punctuality of more than six minutes, coupled with delays of one to two minutes, gives figures that come well beyond 80 to 90 per cent of permanent delays. This is no longer acceptable at all. I think the same excuses served have a good back. I do not see a strategy of solutions and extremely concrete elements. The irritation of commuters is very important. Rather than slogans, I would prefer the promised basic service to be guaranteed. This is a public service for me! I hope that there will be positive changes and developments for commuters because the situation is no longer tenable. We're driving the commuters off these lines to the car. Frankly, this is not a solution for anyone, for commuters, for mobility, or for the environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u103	I thought that the issue might come back to the current affairs debate that was discussed earlier. I'm sorry if there are any repetitions in my elements or in the Minister's response elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u104	That's not how it was planned!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u105	Minister, an article in "L'Echo" mentions the impact of health, energy and social crises on SNCB's finances. Initially estimated at between 30 and 40 million euros, the debt of the public enterprise would be around 200 million euros. The main causes of the losses would be the fall in sales of transport tickets, the decrease in a specific allocation dependent on attendance, indexation of railway workers' wages, etc. To this we must add the previous government's budget cuts affecting staff finances, but also the energy bill that is exploding as a result of the current crisis: more than EUR 60 million of electricity for the country's first consumer. To wipe out the slate, the government has taken a series of measures, either aid following the covid-19 crisis or, more recently, an envelope of EUR 15 million to freeze a possible increase in the prices of transport tickets. Unfortunately, these various plans, aids and other envelopes are insufficient to restore budgetary balance but also to achieve the government's rail mobility targets. The current fuel price crisis shows once again that the train is the main solution of tomorrow's mobility. Rail development is a real response to climate and social challenges. More today than ever before, the experts on these two subjects are calling for new public measures as a matter of urgency. Do you intend to stop at the last budgetary adjustment with an envelope of EUR 15 million? In other words, do you intend to ask for additional budgets from the government to meet your objectives? Has your administration ever had to make any choices by abandoning certain projects of Infrabel or SNCB? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u106	In recent years, the Belgian rail industry has suffered from a chronic disinvestment, due to its being regarded as a variable for budgetary adjustment. Of course, I'm talking about years before 2020. Thus, for the period 2015-2019, the overall savings of more than 2 billion euros were decided – one can even speak of dark cuts – by the last government to be borne by SNCB and Infrabel. This government has made a completely different choice: making rail the backbone of mobility in Belgium. This ambition is translated into reality. Since 2020, more than €1.7 billion has been reinjected into Belgian rail, beyond the usual annual allocations of SNCB and Infrabel. This amount was as useful as necessary, although still insufficient, because, as you pointed out, the context is very complicated for our railway companies. The health crisis has drastically reduced SNCB's own revenues. Fortunately, the trend is reversed. We're back on the train. Terrible floods have seriously damaged the network for which Infrabel is responsible. He had to be rehabilitated. And today, energy prices are driving the energy bill of SNCB and Infrabel, two of Belgium's largest electricity consumers. In the face of all these crises, the government has been in solidarity with these railway companies on my proposals: almost 800 million euros of covid compensation, 68 million euros for work following the floods, more recently 21 million euros, and not 15 million euros, to compensate for the SNCB tariff freeze while its board of directors was considering early tariff indexation in order to cover its additional energy costs and, as I said earlier, 82 million euros for the first six months of 2022 to cover the increase in energy costs and the impact of the welcome indexation of the wages of SNCB workers. It's not nothing! The Government has been supportive of these railway undertakings. In any case, it will continue to be so, as it will continue to invest in the Belgian rail in order to make it the backbone of mobility in Belgium and avoid having to make difficult choices because there are many needs in all regions of the country. As Mrs Fonck has done at the moment, the members of this committee repeat it to me. Mr Toventers, you speak of fiction, I speak of reality. The federal government made a very clear choice in March to accelerate the most necessary transition to 100% renewable energy. The crisis we are experiencing at the moment, with energy prices from fossil fuels that are blowing out, confirms what we have known for a long time, namely that there is no other way than to move towards energy independence, based on renewable energy sources. The government is taking action by spending no less than EUR 1.2 billion on the energy transition plan. In this historic agreement on the country's energy future, the entire government has also resolutely opted for the further development of more sustainable mobility by gradually abandoning our dependence on fossil fuels. Mobility is an essential ally of our energy transition and independence. In order, among other things, to support the track in it, I have once again been able to free up large budgets with the government. The transition to sustainable energies, both for SNCB and for Infrabel, is an absolute priority for me, which is reflected in both my policy note and vision 2040. Although the train is already the most environmentally friendly means of motorized public transport, my ambition is to make it even more sustainable and energy independent. SNCB and Infrabel, as public companies, have an exemplary role to play in this area and I wish to strengthen and encourage it. In this way, both companies contribute to the necessary transition to a sustainable society based on renewable energy sources. To make rail even more environmentally efficient, it will be necessary to better manage the energy consumption of trains, stations and other buildings used by our two railway undertakings. The energy agreement of 18 March already mentioned the increase in the installation of solar panels on their buildings and properties, the use of LED lighting at all stations and the installation of intelligent charging terminals for electric vehicles in the SNCB and Infrabel car parks. In the short term, a pilot project will be launched for hydrogen-powered locomotives and additional financial support will be provided for freight transport as part of the objective of doubling the volume of freight carried by rail by 2030. All these measures should contribute to a greener track, which does not mean that they are an end point, on the contrary. Together with SNCB and Infrabel, I will continue to use all levers to accelerate the energy transition. Therefore, it is my wish to include in the future public service contract of SNCB and the performance contract of Infrabel that energy consumption should be reduced and that more renewable energy should be used to drive the trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u107	Thank you again, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I want to make something right first. You claim I've spoken of fiction, but I didn't use that word. That word is in the text of my question, but it does not come from me. In March, the Green Minister Tinne Van der Straeten put a note on the government table asking for as much as EUR 8 billion to be invested in renewable energy, in exchange for longer opening up of nuclear power plants. I can now hear you say that EUR 1.2 billion is going to the energy transition, which is very little in relation to the amount requested. In concrete terms, Minister Van der Straeten asked EUR 1.2 billion for additional investment in rail. You've achieved that 1.2 billion in total. Minister Van der Straeten also asked 187 billion euros for the reimbursement of transport. According to the press, Minister Van der Straeten's note was apparently received with a laugh by the liberal government partners. They're the ones who stamped it with political fiction. According to the Liberals, there would be no further massive investment in the railways. Instead of spending more money on rail, it would be better to reform SNCB, according to its government partners. I have therefore tabled this oral question because of concern. I hear a lot of plans and ambitions, the fists are waving and some call them air castles. We then read the reports of the Federal Planning Bureau and of the Treasury Inspectorate, according to which, among other things, budgets are missing. Then I read in the press about Minister Van der Straeten's note. That is why I ask you, of course, where you will end up. Is there any consensus and support for all these plans, let alone the necessary budgets to implement them? I must say that your answer did not reassure me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u108	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the good news. Investing in the railway to meet the challenges of people's displacement, but also to deal with the climate crisis, is a vision that this government has developed and that I share at the highest level. You suspect that, in my view, the allocation of these budgets should be primarily directed towards major and large-scale projects. Why not the Axis 3 construction site? But I've already asked you about it. Today, the investments announced give us hope that a more advantageous tariff policy will one day point at the end of its nose. As you know, the PS is in favour of free transport, including trains, as was the case in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg in March 2020. In addition to an increased offer, free public transport would be the social icing on the cake of mobility. This would certainly be useful for our fellow citizens, who are seeing their purchasing power decline because of the increase in energy prices, but not only. We therefore question the costs of non-freedom currently implemented by SNCB. Billets, counters, ticket control, accompaniment, the role of staff, management of claims and complaints, all of these certainly represent a considerable cost to the railway company. There is, no doubt, a subject to be explored which I will not fail to discuss with you on a future question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u109	Colleagues, all of Mr Roggeman's questions are deferred, namely Questions Nos.55026210C, 55026263C,55026433C, 55027506C, 55026465C, 55026634C, 55027590C, 55027078C, 55027479C, 55027303C, 5027452C, 55027526C. Questions Nos 55026751C by Mrs Anja Vanrobaeys, 55026883C by Mr Jef Van den Bergh, 55027005C and 55027006C by Mr M. Ben Segers are transformed into written questions. The same applies to Question No 55026497C by Mrs Mélissa Hanus.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u110	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns the liberalisation of rail. As I know, I am a fierce opponent of this liberalisation, because if the rail were liberalised – I turn to my colleague Mélissa Hanus – there would be no rails below Namur. We won't need to talk about Axis 3. So there's no question of liberalizing, minister! But the current government's agreement provides for pilot rail liberalisation projects. It states: "Once all the modalities of these projects have been defined, the extent of the territory to which the direct allocation applies will be adjusted. Strict and binding quality requirements will be imposed on SNCB for this purpose. In order to prepare for future liberalisation, the path of integration of private expertise within SNCB will be explored." I already asked you about this last year. I am doing this again today, because I would really like to know what the current government is going to do about this important issue. The implementation of these pilot projects is no longer even included in your last general policy note of 2022, and I welcome this. Don't worry, I'm looking forward to it! The Walloon Region has not been contacted on this subject. You vaguely referred to a study of the Mobility FPS that would be underway, but we don't know any more. Minister, should we conclude from the above that the pilot projects announced are abandoned? How do you intend to do this? What is the status of the discussions with the unions on this subject? Why was the Mobility FPS not commissioned earlier to study this issue? What is the deadline for submitting this study? What's your calendar? I really want precise answers, because in two years' time we will be at the end of the legislature and the Chambers will be dissolved. It's always sad, but that's how it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u111	And ten bucks, it's not expensive!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u112	Mr President, I do not wish anyone to be dissolved. Mr Toventors, Mr Arens, the implementation of a pilot project in accordance with the coalition agreement is being prepared. This is particularly the case in the context of the design of the future public service contract between SNCB and the federal government. It is the first step towards the realisation of the projects, since it is a matter of defining their implementation in that contract in order to create a clear framework. In parallel, a study will soon be launched in collaboration with the Mobility FPS to determine the legal and operational conditions for the launch of the first in first pilot project?- Is that what you're saying? in vision 2040, the contracts of the companies and then to study the conditions under which the two pilot projects could be implemented in the government agreement. Step by step, let us concretize the elements contained in the government agreement on rail matters!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u113	I thank the minister for his answers. I expected that these liberalisation pilot projects would be abandoned, telling me that Belgium would find alternative ways to get away with Europe and remain competitive at the level of this company, which remains a public undertaking. I always say that when we defend the rural environment with a low population density, we can only fight in that sense. I am counting on you, however, so that everything can be reviewed and trains can still be taken to the most remote areas, that is, beyond the Ardennes forest.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u114	Minister, I find your answer very lean. We are halfway 2022 and there is nothing really yet, because you will look at the framework when the management agreement is being drawn up and the study is still to be started. Actually, we're just nowhere, so I'm really curious how that story goes on.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u115	"In February 2021, I asked you about the plan to open up airspace to wind turbine development.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u116	If so, will the issue of wind turbines be addressed?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u117	Mr Parent, this is a very interesting question that makes us change our domain. The energy agreement reached in mid-March provides for more than EUR 1 billion to accelerate the energy transition to renewable energy, which is the only way to achieve energy independence as quickly as possible. This agreement provides, among other things, for more wind power at sea and on land. In concrete terms, for land wind, Skeyes and Defence will adopt a common roadmap for the development of surveillance infrastructures in Belgian airspace. One of the objectives of this roadmap will be to limit restrictions on the installation of wind turbines while ensuring the safety of air navigation. This common roadmap will gradually reduce the number of radars in Belgium. Primary radars used for non-cooperative monitoring will decrease from eleven to eight. Secondary radars used for cooperative surveillance will decrease from twelve to four. In a first step, wind farm filters were installed on primary radars in Ostend, Brussels and Florennes used for non-cooperative surveillance. After extensive testing, the installation of these filters made it possible to relax the criteria in areas that were previously prohibited for the installation of wind turbines. In a second step, Defence will proceed with the progressive replacement of the end-of-life primary radars. A market consultation will soon be launched by Defence to assess technological progress in mitigating the impact of wind turbines on primary radar performance. As far as secondary radars are concerned, Skeyes will deploy, as soon as possible in the coming years, a network of multilateration antennas in Belgium in order to be able to rationalize the number of radars while maintaining sufficient radar coverage to guarantee the safety of air navigation. Here too, it will free up space for the installation of wind turbines. Keyes' board of directors was renewed last December. We can now work on a new business management contract. As announced in my policy note, this new management contract will fully support the continuation of synergies with Defence and the consolidation of dialogue and collaboration with the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u118	Minister, thank you. It is true that this was one of my first questions last year on the subject, the issue of radars. Safety first of all, but other countries such as Denmark have shown us that it is possible to review standards and reconcile the development of wind and airport safety. Compared to last year, I am pleased both that there is now a concerted strategy and that the installation of these new technologies in the test phase has been successful and makes it possible to move forward on this issue, which is consolidated by the energy agreement. It is clear, for example, that, on the Liège-Brussels axis, potential has been hampered in relation to the Liège airport and that this will also allow the SNCB, perhaps, to develop certain projects on sound? land. This is good news to follow, especially through the management contract of Skeyes. I have no doubt that here too, the sustainability component will be enhanced, in particular through government-led action.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u119	Thank you, Mr. Parent. I would also like to thank you for replacing me for the remainder of this meeting, which is very kind.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u120	Minister, 5G, the future of mobile networks is tens of times faster than 4G. Users can surf many times faster, but that's not the end of it. It allows many more users at the same time on the network and the connections will be more stable and reliable than is currently the case. In addition, the 5G technology allows connectivity between much larger amounts of wireless devices with a delay in the order of several milliseconds. It opens up a whole spectrum of new applications. Also in the rail sector, 5G technology can revolutionize, think of self-driving trains, surveillance systems that can protect passengers much better, the prevention of copper theft and measuring trains that can control our rail infrastructure much faster and more accurately. 5G is a train that our railway companies should not miss. Infrabel organised an event on the possibilities of the new technology. SNCB has included 5G in its Innovation Programme and has decided to test the 5G network to see if the technology could be used for certain specific situations in the Belgian rail sector. What specific applications are being investigated by both railway companies? When will 5G be tested effectively? What will be tested in the test settings? What resources will be allocated to the deployment of a 5G network and what obstacles should be covered?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u121	A good service with comfort on the train is essential for me. A decent internet connection is also part of this. That element is also included in Railways 2040 to increase the attractiveness of the train. The GSM-R communication network, which is used by all European railways, supports the exchange of communication between the signalling systems installed on the train and the traffic management systems for the most modern signalling system ETCS-2. Those systems shall no longer require lateral signalling. However, the speed allowed by GSM-R is still low, because it is based on 2G. That explains why GSM-R is unable to support more advanced functionalities. The GSM-R network would also not be able to support the widespread use of modern signalling throughout the Infrastructure network, especially at the major rail hubs. 5G can offer a solution in this respect. 5G also allows widespread use of the Internet of Things (IoT) and the exchange of information with drones, two examples of future applications according to Infrabel. The replacement of GSM-R should be completed by 2025. For this purpose, pilot lines are planned. The aim is to recover as much of the GSM-R mast infrastructure as possible and to operate the GSM-R network in parallel with the new 5G-based network. The adjustment service activities shall be carried out at night in order not to interrupt train traffic. The signalling systems on the trains and on the ground will have to be adapted, which is a major operation, which takes several years and for which the necessary budgets have to be made available. It is also a technical challenge, since the essential level of safety for the railways must not be affected in any way, even during the migration and coexistence phases of the two systems. SNCB's Innovation Lab also looks at whether the new technology can be used to improve its services and expects concrete applications that may need 5G technology between 2024 and 2026. At your question how much resources will be allocated to the deployment of a 5G network, SNCB informs me that it assumes that the various operators will offer 5G as a public service as is the case today for other mobile data networks. SNCB therefore does not expect to have to make investments in this area. In any case, SNCB follows the evolution in its Innovation Lab.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u122	I am pleased with some of the answers. The roll-out of 5G will indeed be quite a challenge, both budgetary and technical. In the long term, however, this network offers enormous opportunities that will be recouped. I've been working for a time for an improved network on the train for the passengers. I'm glad we won't miss the train in that story, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u123	Minister, the Kempen must of course be included in a round of questions. The Kempense train traveller notices it every day, the trains from the Kempen are often delayed. This has already become clear in the topical and urgent debate that has just taken place. However, the new transport plan would improve this, said SNCB. For example, the IC train Antwerpen-Mol-Hamont would not be split into Mol in the future. This means that the connection becomes faster and more reliable. The change in the transport plan would lead the train from Antwerp to Hamant. An L train that runs separately from the Antwerp-Hamont IC train would ensure the Mol-Hasselt connection. The electrification would also allow newer and more modern equipment to run on the rail link. Unfortunately, however, these changes are not always noticeable and there are still many older diesel cars. Passengers are also still faced with many delays and missed connections. Can you clarify the equipment that runs on the Antwerp-Hamont connection? What part of this has been electrified? How does the gradual influx of new vehicles eventually change the equipment deployment on this connection and from when? Will electrification also improve punctuality on the line?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u124	Ms Verhaert, since mid-June 2021, 40% of IC trains between Antwerp Central and Hamont have been powered by double-deck electric trains. They each have more than 800 seats, which is almost 10% more than the former diesel trains. That is a good thing for the train traveller in the region, but also for the climate. We were just talking about the delivery of rolling stock. The gradual influx of this new M7 equipment will make it possible to systematically remove the oldest equipment. The same applies to the Antwerp-Hamont line. This inflow must optimise the supply at the service of the Kempense train traveller. On punctuality, there is no noticeable trend to identify since electrification, but the evaluation of this is still to come. The infrastructure manager also recalls that punctuality data is fully available via the platform opendata.infrabel.be. I can also give them to you in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u125	Minister, the topical and urgent debate has already made it clear that it is still sad. We are still waiting for it to get better and continue to hope that it will move forward. It's promised all the time. I can assure you that the connection between the Kempen, Brussels and Antwerp is very difficult with the car. This should certainly be significantly improved if we are to pursue a modal shift. People still choose the car because the offer is so sad in our region.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u126	Mr Minister, the municipality of Diepenbeek and Voka-KvK Limburg both ask you, in a letter, to close not all of them in Diepenbeek for the time being. Initially, the plans in Diepenbeek would not close until the new detour along the railway line to the N76 was completed. However, Infrabel has now decided to close all the plans on 1 and 8 April, while the detour will only open by summer. The procedure causes unsafe traffic conditions and obstacles to economic activity. It also runs counter to all the commitments and promises made with the local entrepreneurs, residents and local government of Diepenbeek. It is yet another file in which Infrabel unilaterally imposes and implements a decision on a closure. I can mention many others if you wish, but we will not have the time and I see my colleagues waiting impatiently. However, these are countless dossiers in which, after a dramatic hearing a year ago, Infrabel still does not change his attitude. The municipality, the inhabitants, the traders and the local mobility situation are therefore not taken into account. It's really dramatic right now. Making consideration safer should never lead to a more unsafe mobility situation at local level. With my legislative proposal pending in committee, we wish to finally establish a clear procedure, with local participation, which also takes into account the local mobility effects. What steps have you already taken in this particular dossier? Do you believe that there should be a clear procedure with local control? What does such a procedure look like to you? Where should the ultimate responsibility lie for you? What steps have you taken in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u127	Mrs Verhaert, first of all I would like to emphasise that I am very well aware of the great local impact that the abolition or closure of a road has. It is one of the subjects on which my cabinet is often written by municipalities or other stakeholders. Each local situation is, of course, different and it is important that the most appropriate solution is developed in close consultation between Infrabel and the local partners. So, Mrs Verhaert, I fully agree with you that local involvement is very important and that there should be a clarification of the procedure. Criteria to be taken into consideration are the number of fatal accidents, the crowds of road traffic, the crowds of rail traffic, the technical solutions acceptable from a financial or environmental point of view, etc. In any event, in the event of a possible abolition, Infrabel will always consult with the local authorities concerned, which will thus be able to express their concerns so that Infrabel can take them into account. It is essential that safety always has the highest priority. As infrastructure manager, Infrabel is best placed to decide on this. The final responsibility for the decision on the abolition of a crossing should therefore lie with Infrabel. Last month, my cabinet had discussions with the FPS Mobility, with a view to adapting the regulations in the short term. The FPS Mobility is now preparing a legislative text that we will submit to Parliament in a few months' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u128	Minister, I am pleased with the first sentences you have spoken, particularly those in which you share my concern. You say that Infrabel consults with the local authorities. I would like to point out, for example, that Infrabel sends his cat when three local authorities are freeing themselves up for crucial consultation on a bicycle ostrade. I must therefore strongly contradict you when it comes to taking account of local authorities. I will certainly include certain concerns in my pending bill which will be discussed shortly. The involvement of the local population must certainly be improved. Safety is indeed important, but certainly also at the underlying level. I therefore note that we differ on a number of issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u129	Colleagues, I must warn you that the minister will be called in plenary for the Retrofit bill. Nevertheless, I think, minister, if I am not mistaken, that we can still address one or two issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u130	Mr President, I thank the Minister and my colleagues for their understanding. I was in plenary session. We're testing the limits of this system. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you whether the Belgian railway personnel (HR Rail, Infrabel and SNCB) who are in contact with the public and for those who are not in contact with the public are wearing the signs of conviction in the course of their missions. In a recent communication, SNCB used the image of one of its female workers bearing a belief sign with a SNCB uniform. I am reminded that the wearing of such signs is prohibited for all agents whose mission requires the wearing of a uniform. Article 3 of the Royal Decree of 11 December 2013 on railway personnel inserts a Book 2 entitled "Belgian Railway Personnel" and appears to refer to the Staff Regulations. If I refer to the Staff Regulations of the Belgian Railways, Article 3 states that courtesy and dignity are the norm in all relations between agents of any rank and in relations with the public." To the best of my knowledge, nothing in the Staff Regulations specifically deals with the neutrality and/or impartiality of these staff members, as provided for, for example, for the federal civil service, by the Royal Decree of 2 October 1937 on the status of State officials. Mr Minister, is the aforementioned Royal Decree, by reference to the Staff Regulations, the regulatory basis which determines the prohibition of the wearing of signs of conviction for employees of the Belgian railways whose function requires the wearing of a uniform? If so, does impartiality – which results in the prohibition of the wearing of credentials – distinguish staff members according to the wearing or not of a uniform? Or is there also a distinction between those who are in contact with the public and those who are not, according to the distinction now well known front office/back office?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u131	Mr De Smet, in order to make mobility a freedom for everyone, diverse and inclusive railway companies are paramount, regardless of sexual orientation, religious belief or religious non-conviction, to take a few examples. The principles of equality and non-discrimination on the Belgian railways are set out in opinion 31/HR/2020. This opinion underlines the ambition of the Belgian railways to develop a policy of diversity and inclusion and to comply with anti-discrimination and anti-racism legislation. Since each staff member participates in the dissemination of the internal and external image of the Belgian railways, each must behave in a fair and non-discriminatory manner in all circumstances. Careful, decent and professional appearance and verbal and non-verbal professional behaviour are essential. Officers who, in the course of their duties, are required to wear uniforms, must comply with the instructions for wearing uniforms. SNCB's guidelines state that uniformed agents cannot wear a visible symbol of religious, philosophical or other belief, as SNCB wishes to broadcast a strong and recognizable mark and image to its travellers. A consistent and consistent visual identity is needed. The criterion of distinction is not contact with the customer, but the wearing of the uniform. The uniform is clearly defined. The wearing of such symbols is possible for all other functions. However, this must always be done in accordance with the rules laid down in the diversity and inclusion policy of the SNCB "All different, all PROS". PROS are SNCB's corporate values: professionalism, respect, dare to undertake and know how to collaborate. In February 2022, the SNCB received the Direct Award of Actiris, which recognizes SNCB's efforts and commitment to diversity. I am particularly proud of this recognition by Actiris, which shows that rail is an exemplary employer in which many women and men with diverse talents can help build the train of tomorrow, which will be of all colours.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u132	Minister, thank you for your clear answers. If I sum up, convictional signs are allowed out of uniform. This is not far from what is happening elsewhere in the federal government. However, transport companies, such as STIB, where there is a general ban on carrying the signs of conviction, may also be awarded labels or rewards in terms of diversity. That was the case. We therefore have a different interpretation of standards, which will one day have to be dealt with for the whole country, in all jurisdictions, at the risk of not getting out of it. We believe that there is no inclusive or exclusive neutrality. There is only one neutrality that must relate to acts and appearance. Your answer has the merit of being very informative, upbuilding and complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u133	Question No 55026645C by Mrs Marianne Verhaert is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u134	Minister, the attacks have left a deep impression on workers, victims and emergency services. The staff remains very concerned and wonders whether sufficient consideration is being given to the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. There is a permanent understaffing of staff and a high time pressure. We note that Brussels Airport does little to respect the security procedures. Are the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry really being followed? What does Brussels Airport do with this and what has the company already carried out? How many security personnel were active at Brussels Airport before the attacks and how many are there today? Is such an aggressive attack on our national airport still possible today? What steps have been taken to ensure maximum security for staff and passengers under your rule as Minister? What steps will you take?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u135	Mrs Vindevoghel, the terrible attacks that hit our country on 22 March 2016 will remain a national tragedy forever. The government must assume its responsibilities and ensure that this never happens again. We must learn from what has gone wrong and take appropriate measures. That is why the parliamentary committee of inquiry was set up. It then made a series of recommendations in different policy areas. For your third and fourth questions, please refer to Minister for the Interior Annelies Verlinden, who is responsible for these aspects. My answer is limited to the recommendations on aviation. I asked my administration DGLV at the FPS Mobility for a report on the follow-up to the recommendations, which she provided me with. A first set of recommendations on air transport, namely recommendations 122 and 125, concerned the strengthening of DGLV. Additional staff were recruited in the years following the attacks. At present, DGLV's airport security service consists of 5.5 full-time equivalents (FTE) Dutch speaking inspectors - one full-time job is vacant -, 5 FTE French speaking inspectors and 3.8 FTE administrative staff. An additional full-time strength is expected in the third quarter of 2022, as well as a head of service. The number of members of the security staff is constantly evolving at the airport, including under the influence of airport activities and the number of passengers. The recommendation also called for the problems identified to be resolved against the audit of the airport by the competent European authorities. That audit was carried out in the meantime. All comments were taken into account. The European Union has confirmed this. Moreover, I recently had an audit carried out on the operation of the airport security service. It has made a number of comments, for which an action plan with improvements has already been set up. The Aviation Security Service has taken the following actions. Currently he updates the National Aviation Security Plan in consultation with relevant stakeholders. Inspectors also received additional training to carry out additional tests. Finally, the computerization of the background research application process is ongoing. I also refer to the reorganisation of DGLV with a view to strengthening its actions and services, which I undertook last year. We have discussed this on a number of occasions in committee. Secondly, according to Recommendation 123, structural consultation with airport staff and their trade unions should be intensified and strengthened The formal consultation structures are the National Committee on Civil Aviation Safety (NAVECO) and the Airport Local Security Committee (LOVECO). There is also informal contact with airport staff and there are also regular bilateral meetings with some airports. Recommendation 165 means that the issuing of security cards is centralised in a single service. At present, the responsibility for issuing airport identification cards or badges to the airport operator rests with the airport security plan, which is approved by the Directorate General for Aviation (DGLV). The award of an airport identification card requires a prior background check by the National Security Authority. However, the implementation of a unified badge service under a federal government would lead to a doubling of the creation of badges and the technical implementation of electronic access control. That would not be desirable, as both are inextricably linked. Recommendation 127 calls on the government to direct the actions of all airport inspectors. The direction and legal mandate of the airport inspector has been unchanged since the recommendation of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. Planning shall be drawn up in accordance with the requirements of the European Commission. Safety requires continuous controls and improvements. Measures have therefore already been taken and will follow. That is absolutely necessary. I will continue to follow all this closely with the greatest attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic784x.u136	Thank you very much for the comprehensive explanation. The incident is closed. The incident is closed.
