ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u2	Colleagues, the sitting is open. I suggest you start with current issues. I'm pointing out that the screens aren't working. We will therefore begin this session by checking each time flow by means other than screens. The remaining time will not be displayed. I'm asking you for a little understanding.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u3	Madam President, the lack of a clock may lead us to get answers. The ministers cannot hide behind the clock. I would like to begin with a very serious question, Madam President. Last week I asked, I believe with general agreement, that our institution should somehow interfere with Mr Djalali's serious problem. In fact, I would have liked to have heard from you what response my question has had.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u4	Mr De Roover, together with the President of the Senate, I have sent a letter to the President of the Iranian Parliament on the situation of Mr Djalali.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u5	I would like to ask you to inform us, both of the writing of that letter and of the possible reaction. I think it would be useful to inform the embassy in this country as well. In addition, the Prime Minister is here among us, which we very much appreciate. But I have noticed that two questions about the distress call of the federal judicial police and the prosecutors, which we were able to hear at an unprecedented hearing yesterday, were passed on to Minister Verdeinden. Mrs Verlinden is rightly being questioned about this. But it seems to me that the Prime Minister will also want to put his money into the bag. I assume the Prime Minister will also attend the second series of questions? Maybe it's a printing error, but normally questions come to Mrs Verlinden later in the hierarchy of the questions to be answered. Questions to two Deputy Prime Ministers, Mr Gilkinet and Mr Van Peteghem, will then be dealt with. I assume that's because the Prime Minister will also be expressing himself in response to the second series of questions on this more than interesting matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u6	Mr De Roover, almost every week you raise that point of discussion. You must have seen that not all the questions in the first series were addressed to me. Mrs Van Hoof's question is addressed to Minister Van Quickenborne. I've decided to take all these questions completely for me. For the questions about the federal judicial police, we have chosen to have Mrs Verlinden answer. I would remind you that the government can choose which minister answers. Well, there's some logic in it. The questions you will be asking later are about how the government works. It makes sense for me to answer those questions. However, the questions about the federal judicial police really do concern that policy area. Mrs Verlinden has all the knowledge and experience to answer these questions correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u7	Madam President, we note that. It is significant that the Prime Minister is avoiding this, because it concerns not only the federal judicial police, but also the prosecutors and general government policy. We note that the Prime Minister does not wish to take the floor on this issue, which probably says much more than if he had taken the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u8	In reply to your question concerning the letter, I will inform you of the letter. This was sent to Mister Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf, President of the Islamic Parliament of Iran. We have written with our colleague of the Senate, "on behalf of all our Belgian citizens and parliamentarians, we want to reconfirm with this letter our strong and unequivoral opposition to capital punishment in all circumstances and for all cases. Death penalty is an absolute inhumanity for which no moral, legal or religious justice can be invoked." I will share with you the letter that Mrs D'Hose and I co-signed to the President of the Iranian Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u9	Prime Minister, you have been absent for a few days. You've been to Berlin. You shouldn't have done that, because it was incredibly exciting in the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u10	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u11	Yes, I hope you have greatly promoted trade there. You may answer me at once. I don't suppose this is going away from my time. After all, an eminent majority member, Mr Calvo, has proposed to rewrite the coalition agreement. He doesn't like it anymore. Nothing's gonna happen anyway, so he wants to try again. There was also the very striking saga of both the Minister of Justice and the former Minister of Justice, two eminent lawyers, who had discovered that one could write a KB without a coalition partner being involved and that one could make decisions in this way, with a huge pile of fuss. Minister Van Quickenborne warned my party not to rule with the socialists, because according to him they do nothing but spend money. That was a very interesting announcement, because he is an experienced expert. He is currently in a government with the socialists who spend handfuls of money. In short, this is a matter of government interest, because the socialists are in your government. There was also Mr Mahdi, for the time being Secretary of State and probably soon President of one of your government parties, who expressed his great confidence in the government as follows: 'I expect early elections soon'. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u12	You have 50 seconds left.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u13	Mr Prime Minister, perhaps it would not have been a bad thing for you to have stayed here, because you have said incredibly interesting things about Europe in Berlin. Do you have anything interesting to say about your own government?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u14	Mr Prime Minister, I would like to start by quoting from your statement of government: 'Because the agreement of this government is built on trust, on the will to move forward and, above all, on the willingness to seek consensus, I ask for the confidence of the Chamber'. Those were your words on 1 October 2020. I suggest that we evaluate this motivation. Firstly, the confidence in the coalition agreement is so great that even the biggest and probably only fan of Vivaldi suggested to rewrite the coalition agreement. Secondly, the will to move forward is so great that the members of the government themselves, first Deputy Prime Minister De Sutter and yesterday Secretary of State Mahdi, openly take into account in the media an early fall of the current government. Thirdly, the willingness to seek consensus is so great that your Minister of Announcements, Minister Van Quickenborne, even wanted to push through a royal decision without taking into account the opposition of a coalition partner, the MR, to a ban on gambling advertising. Prime Minister, you are not official, but you look like a government in current affairs. The seven dwarves of today's gnome government really do not agree on anything. It is therefore very important to note that all the necessary reforms, from pensions to taxation and the labour market, take place. Even with the additional measures the citizens need for purchasing power and to be able to pay their energy bill awaits you. You don't do anything with that. You're waiting for another expert group. In the meantime, Prime Minister, do you not think that the dash is off the team? In particular, do you not think that citizens deserve a good and strong policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u15	Prime Minister, if the cat is away from home, the mice dance. You had just left for Berlin and there was already a small coup, a conspiracy in your government. Six parties, with the exception of the real liberals, have drawn up a KB, i.e. no law - on a ban on gambling advertising. With the real liberals they have a chairman who has a football team. He might lose his money. However, they also realize that 64% of people take a chance. They then wonder whether this advertising should be sacrificed for a small part of the municipality that is addicted to gambling. Then I don't even think it's the worst. Then we hear the director of the National Lottery say that they had nothing to do with that. In this story there is not only a small conspiracy, but also blackmail. After all, what happened? The National Lottery has told the government that it would pay an additional monopoly premium of EUR 30 million on condition that advertising is abolished. I have the document here with me, Prime Minister. That's from your government's notifications. We are being fooled again. What does the National Lottery do? They pay an additional EUR 30 million as a monopoly premium, provided that private companies are not allowed to advertise. Prime Minister, how do you explain this blackmail? I thank the members of the MR. I hope you never approve of this. The others would be better associated with the communists, because they are also for state-owned companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u16	Madam President, Prime Minister, I also had a question for Minister Van Quickenborne on gambling advertising. CD&V already knows that Belgium is actually one big arcade. Everywhere along Belgian roads you can make a guess. With your smartphone, you actually have a casino in your pocket. For six years, we've been laying down laws to protect people from that addiction. Minister None wanted to go much further with the previous government to restrict gambling advertising, but was not fully supported. We are very pleased with the progressive understanding of the current Minister of Justice and our group supports his proposals. Gambling ruins people's lives. 40% of the gambling industry's turnover comes from addicts, 4 out of 10. Those are young players, less than 26 years old. This advertising stimulates addiction. There are a lot of gambling problems that not only lead to debt, but also to relationship problems, to anxiety, depression, isolation and even suicidal thoughts. Let us be clear: it is not the football clubs that are going to fall because of a ban on advertising, it is the gambling addicts who are going to die of addiction. We absolutely must work on this with this government. I therefore sincerely hope that you will opt for the ban on gambling advertising, which is absolutely necessary. I urge you to step up the fight against addiction. CD&V has put forward good proposals for this and I hope that we can submit them for discussion and adopt them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, some of the questioners are very good at political considerations. But what is it really about? It's about protecting vulnerable people. That is the focus of this government and the core of this matter. As Mrs Van Hoof says, gambling destroys human lives and brings families to the brink of the abyss. Over the last few days, we have heard enough stories and testimonies of what is happening in our country to vulnerable people. Figures confirm that indeed, because 40% of the gambling industry's turnover comes from people with problematic gambling behavior, who are actually addicted. In recent days, I have received some examples of these personal tragedies from people who have addressed me directly. One of those testimonies, a message from a father, I'd like to quote. "I've been able to get my son out of gambling with some difficulty, but all the help came too late to prevent his best friend's suicide, who didn't see any other way out of addiction. I have seen my son stalked with mafia practices, a mafia that tarts on the shame and loneliness of those young people and also powerless parents. It's just the tip of the iceberg. My son is now abroad, where he is studying, but his best friend, yet a laughterful folk boy, is no longer there." There are dozens of testimonies like these in our country and in Europe. Some countries have taken measures, not to ban activity, but to ban it being constantly thrown into the face of young people. The risk of suicide in gambling addiction is 15 times higher than in the average younger population. This is absolutely not an isolated case. The draft royal decree on which several ministers have been working is based on that concern. How do we protect the most vulnerable in our society? That is our responsibility. It is our mission as politicians to protect people who are vulnerable. Let us be honest: with measures in the margins, we cannot reverse this problem. We must now take decisive action. I am also not going to avoid the question of the method. If there are any questions within the majority, it is of course essential that everyone is known. Moreover, in Parliament too, there have been several initiatives to take steps and try to find consensus on a difficult subject. It therefore seems logical to me that this should be discussed. However, let us not lose sight of the essence. The essence of this debate is how to protect people and ensure that people do not end up in a situation where they no longer see any way out. By the way, the texts have been sent to the Council of State and the European Commission. The European Commission has three months to comment on this. Some say this will be the death blow for some sports. Frankly, if a number of sports sectors themselves have become addicted to this type of funding, there is another problem with a number of sports and then we are having another discussion. My call is very simple. Let us not close our eyes in this hemisphere to those mothers and fathers who contact us because they see what hopeless misery their children are plunged into. I hope that everyone is prepared to open their eyes to this and to look at what measures are needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u18	Prime Minister, I was about to applaud the small part of the questions you answered. There is a very perfide game going on here. Here questions are mixed together so that you can cycle all the way around the problem with an emotional call that we fully support. The consequence of that game is that you refuse to answer questions here about the PGs and the federal judicial police calling your government into order. If a question is asked about the fact that you are Prime Minister of a leaky boat, you do not answer. What disrespect for this house! What a lack of courage you have to look into the problems you are facing. Prime Minister, you have not yet dealt with the growing budget deficits as interest rates increase and tomorrow the next generation will have to pay the price for your mispolicy very quickly.(micro is switched off)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u19	Prime Minister, if the protection of the vulnerable is really the responsibility of this government and not the protection of ministerial posts or the persistent survival of small parties, then the seven bickering Vivaldi parties would agree on something in the interests of the vulnerable. However, that is not the case today. You spoke about taking responsibility for the ban on gambling advertising, but the greatest responsibility that the government has in it lies in the National Lottery, which keeps you completely out of the question. Prime Minister, people are now expecting measures to protect their purchasing power and to pay for their energy bills. You can't even guarantee their safety. It is possible to suggest ideas here to rewrite government agreements which are indeed prone to wooliness, vagueness and plagiarism, but that will not restore confidence in politics. The only thing that will benefit is to pull the plug out of purple-green.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u20	Prime Minister, you are talking about the protection of the gamblers, but why did you sell 170 newspaper shops to the gambling sector two months ago, to the Golden Palace of the Menegalli family? Why did you do that? Why did you accept 30 million euros of bribes from the National Lottery and then say that only she can advertise and the rest can't? That's a cow business. For me, it's not about money for sports. The EUR 1.5 billion of the lotto will be distributed; politicians do nothing better. It's about equal hoods and equal monks. It concerns private companies and casinos, which have to comply with the strictest rules. At the same time, the National Lottery is not bound by the rules, because it is allowed to make publicity and becomes stinkingly rich. It's a cow business and it has nothing to do with the protection of gamblers!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u21	The CD&V Group is very pleased with your answer, now that we know the discourse you will continue in the government. We fully support that. The constant bombardment of gambling advertising on vulnerable and young people must stop. Morrelen in the margin is no longer possible. All so-called counter-arguments on illegality or the death mark for sport have not been scientifically proven. Spain and Italy, yet football mad countries, have shown it to us. They managed to keep the football above water with other sponsors. Let's do that, too. Let us also play a leading role as Belgium and let us go even further in that direction. The lottery has to go in the bathtub in that respect. Our Secretary of State has also stressed this very clearly in the media.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u22	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday a journalist was shot down in cold blood by the Israeli army. First of all, I offer my condolences to his family. She was shot while clearly wearing a bulletproof vest on which was marked "Press". She got shot in the head. Prime Minister, all the peoples of the world ask themselves: "What will our Western governments do against Israel?" My fear, my feeling, is that once again, we're not going to do anything. Because with regard to Israel, you never call for an embargo on its products and exports. When it comes to Israeli decision-makers, you do not decide to freeze their accounts or take possession of their assets. You do not call for sanctions at the United Nations, and you will not - in general - take all the measures you usually take when it comes to acting on behalf of human rights in the countries you have declared to be pariah. Nor will we have motions here calling for sanctions, as is the case with countries such as Russia or China. Prime Minister, this double standard, I find it scandalous! I find it scandalous, and the people who look at us in Africa, in the Maghreb, in Asia or in Latin America are fed up with this double standard of Western government. When it comes to enemies or geostrategic competitors, there you go, you take sanctions, you are severe! But when it comes to allies like Israel, we hear nothing, it's sewn mouth, we don't say anything. Therefore, Prime Minister, here is my question: Are you going to impose sanctions on Israel?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u23	Madam President, Prime Minister, I am outraged and worried – as we are probably all in this House – about what is happening in the east of the European continent, with these atrocious images, these unacceptable behaviors, these victims and refugees, both military and civilian, on both sides. My revolt and concern also relate to other conflicts, which are often forgotten. We don't talk much about it, but they cause victims – women and children. Among the latest in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict was the killing by a bullet in the head of a journalist who was known for her expertise and who was clearly identified. In this country where freedom of the press is defended and when journalists are imprisoned and locked up, I find that there have been few reactions. It is absolute silence – and it is unacceptable. The other aspect concerns an incident that is almost diplomatic in nature. A minister of the Belgian government – yours, ours – finds herself barred from access to the Gaza Strip to observe projects that our development cooperation defends in the health and education sectors, to name but two examples. This is totally unacceptable. If it had been from another country, probably there would have been reactions already. I don't know if the minister would have been treated the same way. Moreover, Israel refused to allow Belgian parliamentarians to visit that country and the Gaza Strip. Where does the spirit of solidarity of friendly countries manifest itself? I don't know if we treat friends that way. Prime Minister, my question is simple. Did you call on the Israeli ambassador to come and explain to you about these multiple incidents between our two countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Again, as I do week after week, I will express my deep concern at the deteriorating situation and the escalation of tensions in the region. First, Belgium strongly condemns the recent attacks on Israel. Attacks on civilians are cowardly and unjustifiable attacks. I said it last week. I'll say it again here. Secondly, you mentioned the death in the exercise of his profession of this well-known journalist. Journalism must be protected. It is clear that the person was visible and identifiable. It is an obligation for everyone to defend journalists who do their jobs. The defence of freedom of the press is also that. Our country has sent a message to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Directly, requests were made for explanations and for an investigation to be initiated in order to obtain more details on how such a terrible event could have occurred. This was done at the level of Belgium but also together with other European countries. In relation to sanctions, I want to refer to the government agreement which is clear and which states that Belgium, together with partners, could take reactive action in case of annexation from the side of Israel.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u25	Prime Minister, yesterday the 55th journalist was murdered in Palestine since the year 2000. She clearly wore a bulletproof vest with the word 'press' on it. You condemn that and a small message is being sent, but what a difference! Human rights have been violated in Palestine every day since 1967. Our government and all the governments of the West have a policy of double standards and two weights that can no longer be justified. We really need to defend the Palestinian people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u26	Prime Minister, I take note of your answer, but it seems to me that she is a little shy. In other circumstances, there can be no double standards. We cannot defend press rights differently, we cannot defend the victims of the conflicts that exist in our world differently. We need to be more voluntary in this action. As is done in other conflicts, particularly at European level, Belgium could take the lead in a movement to make it clear that we cannot do anything when we pretend to be a friendly country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u27	Madam President, Prime Minister, I have just returned from a few days in Kiev where I was able to meet several members of the Ukrainian government. First of all, I would like to read to you the few words addressed by Deputy Prime Minister Stefanychyna at the start of our conversation: "I would like to express my gratitude and my positive surprise at the immediate decision of the European Union to grant subsidiary protection to my fellow citizens. I thought I would have to negotiate at length and beg, but all borders were open. So I cried because I knew my fellow citizens would be saved. Thank you from the bottom of my heart." I wanted to convey this message of gratitude to Belgium and the European Union. But I must confess that, at the same time, she expressed her concern about the "frilosity" – that was her word – at the hesitation of some members of the European Union regarding the granting of the status of candidate for membership of the European Union. We are hearing today about this European political community which could replace this application for membership. I think, Prime Minister, we need to be very careful. You have to be very careful. We cannot trade for each other, i.e. I understand the will of President Macron and other European countries to reform the European institutions, but that cannot happen overnight. We know there'll be divisions. We know it'll be difficult. Ukraine must be given that hope at the end of the tunnel. The Ukrainians simply ask for this status as a candidate for membership. After this bloody conflict in which they paid so much, they want this door to be opened to them. On the other hand, Ukrainians were surprised that we still do not have diplomatic representation in Kiev. You know that all the Member States are returning to Ukraine: recently, the Netherlands, Germany, France, the United States, Canada, etc. All the member and non-member countries of the European Union are now returning to Kiev. What about Belgium's representation on the spot? This is important for both symbolic reasons and for coordinating our cooperation with Ukraine.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u28	Madam President, Mr Dallemagne, Minister Wilmès said a few weeks ago that Belgium intended to reopen its embassy. Belgium was one of the last countries to leave Ukraine. We are preparing for the return of our embassy. But to be clear, it will be reopened when we are sure that we will be able to protect all those who work there. The process is under way. I note that other countries have already chosen. Our choice is to reopen our embassy when all the conditions are in place to guarantee security. That does not mean that we cannot be side by side with the Ukrainian population. All the efforts made by our country to provide weapons to Ukraine show that we can help it without having an embassy open on the spot. As regards the status of candidate for membership, our country has spoken on this issue on several occasions. In my opinion, a difference has to be made. Every effort must be made to show the countries that feel threatened, that see our countries as stable, democratic and open countries, that they are part of the European family. But being a candidate for membership of the European Union is something else. The process is cumbersome, for the sake of the simple reason that the acquis communautaire is extensive. It is known that the number of reforms before a country becomes a member takes years, easily more than ten years. The Balkan countries have started this process for more than 17 years. It takes a lot of effort. The message we can send to Ukraine is that we will be a partner in the physical and intangible reconstruction of this country, as soon as peace is achieved. But the discussion of candidate status is no less than a question of vocabulary, which will not help Ukrainians directly, given their short-term needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u29	Prime Minister, first of all, with regard to our diplomatic representation in Kiev, it has been a month since the Vice-First said that she was considering the possibility of returning. You'll never get a full security guarantee. People who have returned have a flexible representation there. We're in Kiev, we're in Lviv, maybe we're crossing the border, but we're symbolically on the spot with someone. I think that is what we must do, and that is what the Ukrainians are asking us to do. Almost everyone has come back, I think we can be flexible on this issue, it is a political issue above all. Secondly, with regard to this candidacy: no, Prime Minister, I am sorry, it is not a question of words. Mrs Ursula von der Leyen cannot, on 8 April, solemnly hand over the questionnaire to Mr Zelensky to be a candidate for membership and put it in the trash two months later, that is not possible! What Ukraine is asking for is not accession - and you are right, it is a long process - it is the candidacy, it is simply that the door is open. At the same time, we can have the status of candidate and work effectively in this European political community, which is perhaps a solution. There will be many debates on this issue, on working with a broad community, perhaps with a second circle (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u30	Madam President, Madam Minister, since the Prime Minister is apparently not particularly interested in the state of security in our country, I would like to ask you once again. Decapitations, severed limbs, executions and torture, it's not fiction, but it's the harsh reality in this country. Yesterday we saw the explicit images in the Joint Committee on Internal Affairs and Justice. We were shown this footage thanks to the federal prosecutor Van Leeuw. He was not only there, but was accompanied by the top of the magistrate, which was heard in committee yesterday at their request because they felt they were no longer hearing from the federal government. They have come to an end and are no longer able to combat organised crime in this country adequately because there is a shortage of staff and resources. They point out that there are 1,000 investigators on site less than in 2014. They point out that the operating budget of EUR 35 million is far too little and should be increased to EUR 55 million per year. The problem is only getting worse, because the FGP must call on the local police because it is no longer able to sustain its tasks. The problem is only getting bigger and everyone is getting hurt. Madam Minister, I have questioned you several times in the past, but I have never been given a clear commitment, no more than the prosecutors have. Attorney Delmulle was very clear yesterday. He raised the situation at the National Security Council on 1 December 2021 and openly wonders whether that plea did not fall on bare rocks. What will you do to make this dossier a priority? When will you finally come up with the necessary resources and staff so that organised crime in this country can be dealt with properly?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u31	Madam President, guaranteed impunity is what we stand for today in our country. It's day-to-day practice with federal law enforcement. 1 file out of 5 is labeled "no longer researching" today. One out of five, colleagues. It is not just the crumb thieves that are being skipped, it is about serious crimes: kidnapping, fraud, armed robbery and so on. These are dossiers that people rightly expect us to deal with effectively. Let there be no doubt about it, with this approach we are calling our entire safety system into question. At the same time, Madam Minister, we do not need political parties blowing the hell out of us. What we need, above all, is to look at the facts and solve them. Big words aren't gonna get us anywhere. During the corona crisis, thanks to Vivaldi, our economy survived. Inflation is heavy, but we cannot deny that a lot of people have been able to keep their jobs. There is now a large cut in the labour market, including the judicial police. It is a good thing that investment is being made, Madam Secretary. You invest millions, for example, allowing you to recruit 1,600 agents every year. That is necessary, because savings under the previous government mean that we have to make a catch-up today. For Forward it is quite clear: saving on safety is not done! Invest in order to guarantee security. This government is taking steps, but we have to admit that this should go faster. Madam Secretary, what steps will you take to attract the right profiles so that all pending files that are being dismissed today can be easily drawn?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u32	Madam President, Madam Secretary, striking, hallucinating, repulsive. That was the testimony of the public prosecutor's summit, accompanied by the FGP and the Antwerp prosecutor. What we heard yesterday in the United Commission on Justice and Home Affairs is burning on my retina. For that, I don't need paper to ask you critical questions. That's du jamais vu. I would have liked to put the question to the Prime Minister. However, the Prime Minister has very skilfully placed the hot political potato with you. I'll end up with you. What do you say about intimidation, about liquidation, about decapitations, about limbs being cut off and about people being cut up? We saw the footage on the committee. That's Justice and Home Affairs in our country, with us. How do you respond to that? You're politically responsible. Organised crime is taking over this country because of a huge lack of people and resources. You may argue that this is an old discourse. I'll ask you not to look too much into the past. I'll ask you to look ahead. (...): (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u33	No, that's not transparent. That is absolutely not transparent. You're politically responsible. Colleagues, Madam Minister, according to the testimonies we heard yesterday, you are champion in doing nothing or doing too little. In the meantime, your colleague from the Justice Department, Mr Van Quickenborne, is knocking on his chest and, in his familiar style, exclaiming that it is wonderful what he has done in Operation Sky. Madam Secretary, Justice has become a casino. People are more likely not to be prosecuted than to be prosecuted. That's organized crime. That's what this is about. The Prime Minister doesn't think it's necessary to start that debate. He's skilfully disappeared here. Your highest magistrates in the country have declared that the rule of law is in danger. I have a very simple question, which is, however, very confrontational and on which there is no need to play too many political games anymore. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u34	Madam Minister, yesterday the Public Prosecutor's Summit and the Director-General of the FGP were here. They put together a cry for more resources. They confirm that steps have been taken in the field of justice and that this will continue in the coming years, but they also say that there is a serious shortage of detectives on the ground. There are more serious offences than files can be opened. Of the 700 vacancies at the FGP, less than half have been filled today. I am also deeply concerned about the corruption of some of the police and the public prosecutors. The Attorney General of Antwerp reported that the port of Antwerp is the largest turntable in the world and number one in the cocaine trade. Last year, 92 tons were seized. A multiple was passed on and sold in their own country or in other countries. This year, by the way, the counter is at 23 tons. I wonder how it could have gotten so far that Antwerp has become number one. The police and the parquet are doing a lot of good work. After yesterday, I have the impression that the main problem is symptom treatment and that the cause, in particular that Antwerp is number one, is not being dealt with sufficiently. I heard some good news yesterday, too. They have a plan to do so and they need more resources to do so. Madam Secretary, how will you organise recruitment and training at the FGP to fill out these 700 vacancies? Do you recognise the request from the Public Prosecutor's Summit for more resources? How will you further support the DGJ 3.0 plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u35	Madam Secretary, our security and our social model are under pressure. Criminal organizations are threatening to get off the hook. The underworld infiltrates the upper world. South American drug cartels are already in our country. They also threaten barbaric torture techniques, simply imported here. Researchers and parquet magistrates are threatened. This is unheard of, as was said in committee yesterday. Operation Sky ECC is an international success. We should all be proud of that. However, it consumes the investigative capacity of the federal judicial police. We have come to the point of setting irresponsible priorities. We must choose between what great banditism or organized crime needs to be tackled. In short, the FGP urgently needs extra money and additional manpower. You've already said business here. You've already invested. The police budget increases by 100 million between 2020 and 2024. Mr D'Haese, excuse me for looking at the past. The staffing capacity of the FGP has been systematically reduced under Minister Jambon. The current minister has recruited 200 extra staff. However, we are certainly not there yet. Additional investment is needed. There's a need for additional manpower. You've tried a lot before that. The political spectrum from left to right indicates that more investment is now needed. I therefore call on everyone not only to act in committee, but also at the budgetary table. What additional possibilities do you see to ensure that this problem is solved?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u36	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it has been months for the judicial world to sound the alarm. Our federal judicial police have simply been under infusion for months, which is particularly the sad consequence of the policies carried out over the course of the legislatures, until today. Yesterday, in committee, as my colleagues said, we had a new moment. The high levels of our judicial world have come before us in the Committee on the Interior and Justice to remind us of our political priorities, our political responsibility. The situation is serious, Madam Minister, as you know, because we have already discussed it in committee. In the face of a changing society, in the face of ever-growing crime, our police are now unable to carry on their missions, despite all the efforts they have made. Insufficient budget, obsolete equipment, incomplete operational framework, low attractiveness of vacant jobs. In the face of this, organised crime at the international level, which is on all levels of our society: blood crimes, corruption, cartels that make the rain and the good weather in the streets of Antwerp, Brussels, Liège, tax fraud - and I pass it. Today, the Belgian judicial police are under pressure and must choose the cases they consider priority. This is obviously unacceptable! Recall that 1,000 agents were deployed and mobilized in the framework of Operation Sky-ECC, which was able to demonstrate the full competence of our Belgian judicial police. Dangerous networks have been dismantled in just a few weeks, and there have been record seizures. Mr. Demon said that 92 tons of cocaine had been seized in less than a few months in our territory. Minister, I know that you are not responsible for this situation. However, it is up to us, collectively, to correct this, or to be complicit in it. I come to my very simple questions. You've already started to straighten the bar. We already have a plan to refinance the police. A recruitment plan is in place. Things are on track. Nevertheless, this is not enough, and we must respond to this alarm cry. Minister, can you remind us of the objectives you have set yourself and the current results, so that you can have a clear view of the current state of our government's policy? Then, how do you envisage making this judicial police attractive? [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u37	Your time is up, Mrs. Song.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u38	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen: insufficient human resources allocated to the fight against trafficking in human beings, trafficking in human beings, major tax fraud and social fraud, lack of police means to prevent extremist and terrorist crimes, lack of agents to prosecute crimes under international humanitarian law. Yesterday, a beacon of distress was activated by the highest magistrates and by the leadership of the judicial police of our State. We cannot today fail to answer that question. After the shock, after the indignation, today is the time of reaction. Indeed, it is incomprehensible that hundreds of important investigations should be abandoned. It is unacceptable that criminal organizations, including international ones, may prosper in our State because of a lack of human and technical resources. We have been urging you for months to straighten the bar after the catastrophic budget cuts led by the previous government, which were widely denounced yesterday and which have in many cases made our federal judicial police exsanguate. Today, it is no longer time to refer the responsibility between the Interior and Justice, whereas yesterday they spoke with one voice. What the highest police and judicial authorities are asking for, Minister, is simple: an additional 1,000 investigators; these 1,000 investigators, whose numbers have been reduced over the years, since 2014. Resources have already been made available by this Government. This is clearly not enough. You are the Minister of the Interior and I have two questions for you. What have you already requested and obtained in practice within the government as additional budgetary and human resources? In the face of this situation, what concrete response are you going to give them and what budget are you going to allocate to them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, like you, I naturally followed with great attention yesterday the hearing with the Attorney General and the Director-General of the Federal Judicial Police. From joining us, Mr Van Quickenborne and myself have seen the challenges facing the federal police. This, of course, has to do with historical underfunding. However, we will not be deterred. The police, both federal and local, find an ally in me. When I go on the field, I see how dynamic and motivated these people are. Yes, Mr D'Haese, I consider it my responsibility to leave the police better than I found them. I consider it even more my responsibility to do so for our countrymen. We will not leave this country to criminals. Organised crime has no place in our country and will never have it. I share the concerns of the Attorney General's Office of the Federal Police. Their call was well heard. From the first day, I acted. During this legislature, we are investing an additional 310 million in the police. This is one of the largest increases since the reform of the polices and the PJF is a privileged beneficiary. I count on integrated police management to make effective use of these budget injections. In addition, the federal government will invest 300 million euros for the digitalisation of the police via the iPolice project. After twenty years of status quo, I have invested in a sectoral agreement and we will increase the pay position of our police officers, we will increase the attractiveness of the police. It all starts with extra staff. We have speeded up the recruitment process. Over the past two years, we have recruited more than 550 additional personnel for the federal police, including 220 for the PJF. We will continue this trend as a significant portion of the recruitment of 1,600 police officers will be directed to the PJF. We will also continue our efforts by putting in place a specific recruitment process focused on specialist profiles (IT). Ladies and gentlemen, you will not hear me say that we are already here. That's pretty obvious to me, too. I know those images too, they're obviously burned on my retina. We must do something about this; we must continue with this. However, you should not expect us to eliminate the historic deficit by one and a half years. We're working on it, and the curve's reversed. We'll move on in the same way because we'll strengthen the police. I heard prosecutor Frédéric Van Leeuw tell him to make choices. That only strengthens my enthusiasm and my conviction to work on it further. I've been one asking party since day one for a further increase in budgets for the police. I can tell you that I have shared the indignation that some of you expressed about yesterday's presentation since day one. That's why I put in the glove to increase budgets. Let me say that I am very pleased to see today that the police allies are large and that there are convinced allies of the police in this House. Please do not let it remain lip service, turn your indignation into effective choices and additional financial support for the police. We know that the budgetary context is difficult. We must therefore make choices and go for our priorities. That is why I shall put this question back on the table in the forthcoming budget discussions. I am counting on everyone's support in this. Colleagues, it is clear that I am standing on the barricades to further strengthen the police. I don't do that for smart gadgets or cool cars. We don't do it for that, we do it to ensure our safety. I consider it my responsibility to strengthen the police today, so that we can focus on today's security, and certainly tomorrow's security, for future generations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u40	Madam Secretary, it is the reverse world in which you accuse the opposition of lip service. It is you and your government who must act. You say you invest in security, but at the same time you make linear savings, also on the police domain. Madam Secretary, I will give you some figures. The FGP Antwerp is currently employing 450 investigators instead of 600. Forty-five investigators are currently working at the FGP Brussels, while in 2002 there were 69. People are not moving forward, they're getting worse. Madam Secretary, we are experiencing the greatest security crisis since the terrorist attacks. That much was clear yesterday. It's no longer sustainable. The Flemish Interest demands three things today. Firstly, do not delay and make available the necessary budgets for the FGP today in such a way that it can meet the highest needs. Secondly, ensure that the FGP's investigators are properly framed. Thirdly, invest in modern technologies. Our people deserve different and better; our people deserve a government that makes security a top priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u41	Madam Secretary, I warned against parties coming here to blow up the tower. That really doesn't solve anything. They do not support the police by shouting louder, but by taking action. My good colleague from the N-VA says that we should not look too much at the past, but we should just look at the past to see how it could have come to this. We really need to do that. Madam Secretary, we must never allow organised crime to undermine our society. We must invest to ensure safety. It's time for action, now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u42	Madam Minister, I listened very carefully to you and wrote down some important things. Do you know who once said, "After the attacks in 2016, I never received more resources than then"? That was a statement by Mr Frédéric Van Leeuw. But you forget that Operation Sky has completely changed the security landscape. Now you must act. 4,481 suspects were identified. Of these, 1,069, slightly less than a fourth could be prosecuted. So 3,000 others escape the dance. Now is the time not to let the cards play out of your hands, but to draw other cards. That's what you need to do. Then you can strike organized crime. That is the message we want to give you. This is not about small political games about budgets, among other things. You must act now. That's what you should do. That's what you were asked to do. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u43	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answers. I understand that it is not just a story of budgets, but also one of recruitment and of accelerating recruitment. You're already working on that. We will continue to support you in that. In addition to the handling of files and the opening of other files, as I mentioned earlier, we must address the cause. The cause is the cocaine trade for which the Antwerp harbor is number one in the world. The federal judicial police and the prosecution have a plan for that. We must all support that. We must work on this so that in a few years' time the port of Antwerp will no longer be at No. 1 in the field of cocaine trafficking is only at No. 100.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u44	Madam Minister, I fully support your intention to eliminate the historical backwardness and to increase resources not only for the police, but also for specialised profiles. Safety is expensive. There's a price on that. After years of staff dismantling, you have rightly brought about a change of scenery. Therefore, anyone who talks here should absolutely support you to invest more in the judicial police. So I call on all parties to take action, together for more security, walk the talk.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u45	Madam Minister, thank you. I obviously support your will. Thank you for reminding you of all that you have already undertaken. I'll say one thing: "Let's make our police more attractive to the stakes of our society!" By fighting tax fraud, we will fight crime directly. Let's reinvest in the financial unit! Let's reinvest in the Art and Antiquities cell! Let's reinvest in IT! Since 2019, we have been on the right track. That was also recalled yesterday, and I would like to stress that because some colleagues seem to forget it. So let's not stop there! Let us continue the path we have begun together! Let us make this a priority issue in our legislature so that the security of our rule of law is maintained! I thank you already for what you did.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u46	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. First of all, I would like to acknowledge the work of our police and justice, which, together with the Sky ECC case, demonstrates remarkable work to us. Today, as I say again, all the eyes are turned to you, Madam Minister, because yesterday, under the guise of an alarm cry, a form of weariness has been expressed and we should not allow fatigue to turn into resignation. You mentioned figures: 100 million, 310 million. The Federal Judicial Police are not asking so much. It requires between 35 and 55 million euros. It calls for the 35 to 55 million in this large amount of 310 million to be allocated to enable it to recruit the necessary personnel. These resources must be urgently released and allocated specifically. One thing to remember is that every euro injected into the Federal Judicial Police is not an expense but an investment to look for billions of euros in the shadow economy, billions of euros in financial crime, billions of euros in criminal networks. It is as many billions that we reinject into our state and finance our public services.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u47	Madam President, Minister, on May 27, 1999, 23 years ago, the Order was passed to combat noise generated by air traffic, known as the Gosuin Order. Today, 23 years later, the Gosuin Decree is still the only legal weapon to combat the noise pollution associated with the massive aerial overflight of the Brussels Region and its periphery. And yet Brussels and its periphery continue to be overflew. The inhabitants of these municipalities continue to suffer serious nuisances. We must be able to say this: it is an illegal and disproportionate infringement of fundamental rights, in the first place the right to a healthy environment. Despite many court decisions, no progress has been made in 20 years. The most recent fact in the face of the inaction of the federal authority: almost 400 families attack the Belgian State at the Brussels court of first instance and claim 40 million euros. I confess to you, minister, that with an ecologist in charge of this matter, many of us were hoping that, finally, things would move on in this matter. This is not the case, and even worse: it is felt that this case has never been so immobilized. As if the marsh of the Vivaldi had an inevitable vocation to extend to all the files, one by one. Minister, my question is simple: what are you going to do? What are you going to do after more than two and a half years of inaction so that the citizens of Brussels and the periphery can finally spend quiet nights without being awakened by the noise of planes? What are you going to do to implement and respect the many court decisions? How will you guarantee the right to a healthy environment for Brusselsers and the inhabitants of the periphery?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u48	Deputy Prime Minister, I thought that environmentalists were committed to the protection of a healthy environment, the fight against noise pollution and the fight for the health of the population. Yet, as you know, for a long time, but especially now, it is hell in the east of Brussels, in the Walloon Brabant, in some easy communes. People don't sleep anymore. This affects the health of many of them. This impact is demonstrated and attested morally, mentally and physically. For them, however, they have judicial decisions which have been confirmed in appeal and in cassation. It is clear from this that wind standards are being unfairly applied today, so that we should return to the July 2013 instruction, which would already reduce noise pollution by half in the eastern part of Brussels. And you don't do anything about it! Then, in committee, you say that the associations are battling and do not agree on anything. That's not true. They agree on essential requirements: the ban on night flights, the European night – which means no longer taking off at 6 a.m. but at 7 a.m. and landing at the latest at 10 p.m. – less noisy and more taxed aircraft if they remain or totally banned if they are too much. Since 2017, associations have been unanimous in this regard. Mr. First, you know this is a very complicated case. But you have decided to sit on it and do nothing. You have opted for states-general, which form a kind of chamber, without minutes, minutes and agendas. The participants tell me there's nothing going on there. Mr Vice-first, I ask you to apply the rule of law and to ensure that these nuisances finally decrease, so that these thousands of people can finally sleep. It's not by paying tens of millions of dollars from the federal government that you've done your job. You will have owed the state a little more and you will not have saved the night and the days of these citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u49	Mr Minister, it has indeed been nearly twenty years since the overflight of Brussels, the Walloon Brabant and the periphery occupied us and, above all, poisoned the lives of the inhabitants. Let us be honest, since the 2004 dispersion plan, all the Ministers of Mobility have broken their teeth on this issue. We had a little respite with the covid and the locals were able to breathe a little bit. But, in the last few months, air traffic has picked up even better and landings on Runway 01 are breaking all the records in March of this year compared to March 2016. Minister, why didn't you just take advantage of this lull caused by the covid to seek solutions? It is true that you set up the General States, this platform for consultation, last September, but you know as well as I do that it will take long months to produce its effects. It's a long-term solution. Meanwhile, the inhabitants are exhausted, worn out by sleepless nights, worn out by restless Sundays, while there are indeed court decisions. In one judgment, the Brussels Court of Appeal condemned the misuse and unlawful use of runway 01. The State has already been ordered to pay EUR 9 million to compensate 93 families and, today, 400 residents could have recourse to the Belgian State at a cost of EUR 40 million. Minister, my question is simple. Why not simply apply the decision of the Brussels Court of Appeal of October 2020? This would reduce landings on Runway 01 by half and, consequently, reduce nuisances for residents by half.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to have the opportunity to explain to you the method which has been mine for a year and a half - not two and a half years - in this complex and difficult matter of the noise pollution caused by the activities of our national airport. I am fully aware of the negative impact suffered by all the residents flying over the aircraft landing at or taking off from Brussels-National Airport. Yes, aviation is polluting and has a negative impact on health. Everyone must be aware of this and agree to take appropriate measures to limit these activities and their impact. It is the strict right of the persons concerned to bring proceedings against the Federal State in order to defend their views. This is far from the first time this has happened. For more than 30 years, this problem has poisoned the lives of the local residents living in Brussels, in Walloon Brabant, in Flemish Brabant, and at least as much time as the different regional and federal governments, the various ministers fail to find a solution that satisfies everyone. Those who claim that there are solutions in this file, easy to implement, legally sound, that do not reject nuisances on others, are mistaken or mislead those who listen to them. I have indeed decided, in this case, to have a discreet approach. But I reassure you from the outset: we must not confuse discretion with inaction or lack of consultation. I just don't think there's any need to add noise to the noise! On the other hand, contrary to what I have read recently, the spaces of expression, dialogue and consultation have never been as open to everyone: the residents and their representatives, the local and regional authorities, like the mayor of Wezembeek-Oppem, like the mayor of Waterloo, Mrs Reuter, the operator of the airport, the economic and social actors - and I pass on. This case, ladies and gentlemen, is subject to heavy litigation resulting from a series of unresolved or imperfectly settled conflicts. Several judgements have been handed down, sometimes with divergent orientations. The federal government is forced to comply. We are acting to follow up on these court decisions. It's a legacy I've received. Since taking office, I have been acting with the objective of finding lasting solutions to improve the lives of all the people who are on the border, and thus to reduce the impact on them of aircraft flying over them. I have taken several initiatives, all of which are in this direction. I refute the assertion that I would not have done anything in the file. 1. I commissioned a new impact study to independently assess the noise impact of the flights on populations. It is to be completed in June - it is now 12 May - and to feed the various parties in the search for solutions. 2. I have set up a platform for consultation, which will meet for the fourth time in June, and which involves all the actors I mentioned earlier. These two actions are necessary preconditions for any new option valid in the file, as long as they have been the subject of court decisions. 3.I have set up a technical group, whose mission is to identify and test, with the airlines, with our air controller, the best solutions to alleviate the environmental burden of the airport. It will test new landing or take-off procedures by the fall, such as increasing the final intercept altitude, approach slope angle, etc. 4. Consultation with regional governments, in order to finally define the principles of a common approach to this problem, is in the process of being concluded. I look forward to aligning the four governments concerned with common objectives and common points of approach. 5. At my request, Skeyes, our air traffic controller, promotes a new aircraft approach procedure, more regular, less CO2 emitting, and therefore less noise-generating. What is good for the climate is also good for health. I have set aside a budget of almost EUR 3 million to set up and promote this new type of approach. Ladies and gentlemen, no one in this House will be able to contradict the fact that I am basing my approach on. So far, no government - no minister, neither Mr. Wathelet, nor Mr. Bellot - has ever managed to resolve this serious problem in a sustainable and fair manner. I am determined to try to find a lasting and equitable solution for all the residents concerned. I have already taken many initiatives to that end. But it is true that I am acting with the discretion and modesty required to resolve such a case. It's not easy. It will never be easy but my determination is at the height of the nuisances suffered by the residents of the airport.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u51	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Yes, a year and a half ago, not two and a half years ago. What do you want? At the current pace of work, I anticipate! For the rest, I can hear. Nobody says you do absolutely nothing, but you do a lot of things that have already been done in the past. We have already had technical groups, consultations. We have already had discussions with local residents and other entities. What we need now is decisions. By imagining that you were actually able to crystallize everything and finish with a decision – quite quickly, I hope – I think the solutions are already there. We've known them a long time. According to the associations of local residents and a series of legal acts, we know them. What is needed is to ban take-offs and landings between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. It is necessary to require a step backwards of runway 25L to the east, so as to allow take-off by a left turn without flying over Brussels and its periphery. And it must be considered that the Brussels airport has mainly a vocation to transport passengers and not goods, in order to ensure a little better the comfort of the inhabitants of its region and the outskirts of Brussels. Thank you in advance for your follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u52	Deputy Prime Minister, since you like listings, I would like to tell you that it was Mrs Durant who opened Pandora's box. Historically, it should not be forgotten. You're giving us a bit of a leniency about the fact that aviation is polluting. I'm sorry to tell you. Thank you for the information! It had escaped us! I was asking you things that were pretty concrete and clear. There are court decisions that all go in the same direction, on wind standards, and you know that very well, Deputy Prime Minister. That's absolutely true. They were confirmed on appeal and in cassation. The July 2013 instruction is the only one that is worth it. That's exactly right! The N-VA complains but does not read the court decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u53	[[(...)!]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u54	Please, Mr. Franken! I have the floor. There's a second thing. My colleague from DéFI reminded us: you have a consensus on very simple things that other airports are setting up, like the European night. These are the only concrete measures you are announcing: more vertical take-offs and the ban on the loudest planes. Moreover, you have an asset that you forget to mention, namely that three ecologist ministers are manoeuvring (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u55	Minister, I will allow myself a little parenthesis. You're saying Mr. Bellot didn't succeed. In the meantime, you have taken over the same collaborators! I do not agree with your answer because we are in the rule of law and in the rule of law, judicial decisions must be enforced. Justice requires you to make reparation for the damage suffered. The Court of Appeal found the use of Runway 01 to be abusive and unlawful. DGTA's instructions of August 2003 and December 2013 are illegal. You alone are competent to remove them and actually return to the July 2013 instruction that would reduce landings on Runway 01 by half. It is your duty, Minister, to restore the serenity of the inhabitants and to avoid the state paying 40 million compensations. I think that this 40 million is needed elsewhere! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u56	Minister, last week was the time again, there was a note or an opinion on the tax reform. Then there will be reactions and speculations from people who are wondering whether there will be anything else from this great tax reform. I understand this concern, because it is, of course, about something fundamental. Our tax system is one of the cornerstones of our welfare state. That should reflect the value we stand for. Who's gonna pay? Does everyone do their part? Are we asking for the greatest contribution from the strongest shoulders? These are questions that are difficult to answer today, because that system has become totally distorted, far too complex and not just. Everyone agrees on that. Minister, our group is not concerned but impatient, because the need for reform has not diminished since the beginning of this period of government. Today, a lot of people pay too much taxes because some people don't do their part. It doesn't have to be. If everyone does their part, work can earn more and at the same time our welfare state can be further strengthened. That's our red line. If you're working, you've got to make progress. Ladies and gentlemen, it is high time we finally got to work on this. The speculations and non-discussions last week have nothing to do with anyone but the extremes. Mr Minister, I am looking at you to put on the table a proposal on which we will have to have a very solid debate, and I am not under any illusions about that, but rather with the intention of making decisions, in order to do what we have promised, in particular to make the tax system simpler and fairer. It's been long enough now. We want to move forward. Mr. Secretary, what timing do you have in mind? How far do your ambitions reach?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u57	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, one of the important tasks that this government still has to do is to reform our tax system. The principles of that reform are well known and clear, they are in the coalition agreement and I think they are shared by most people. Whoever works must have net more left, the system becomes simpler and fairer. That is a strong commitment and also a very clear promise. Some people want us to believe that this reform will not happen. I don't share that pessimism. Together with my distinguished party colleague, I will not accept that either, Mr De Roover. These principles are too strong to leave them behind until after 2024. The reform of our tax system will not be a copy of any party program. It will include measures which make me feel comfortable and with other measures Mr Leysen or Mr Loones will feel more comfortable. That's okay, because as long as it's all good for the people, a compromise is acceptable and can be defended. Undefendable is a status quo, do nothing. The mandate given to us by the electorate is not the mandate of the standstill. That is why I call on all colleagues to open up the debate. Minister, I know that you are one of the strongholds of this Vivaldi government. I know you have it in you to bring this delicate exercise to a successful conclusion. You have our support for that. I have just heard that you are also supported by Mr Vandenbroucke. In particular, you have the support of the people outside Parliament. Mr Minister, before the summer, can we expect your opening offer on the reform of the tax system in Parliament so that we can start this discussion?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u58	Madam President, Minister of Finance, in a month or two, you will come with your great tax reform and, for that, you have asked the Supreme Council of Finance to make suggestions. Normally, it had to be kept secret, but there was a leak in the press. So we heard from the report of the Supreme Council of Finance and the content is simply hallucinating. What do we find there? One could expect a 6% reduction in VAT on commodities such as energy, a definitive decrease. On the other hand, it is proposed to increase from 21 per cent to 22 per cent. People are shouting today for help when they go to the shops. Now it's no longer "help" that they're going to scream but "crazy"! Measures to improve the purchasing power of the population could also be expected. But what do we read in this document? Your advisors propose to tax family allowances or to remove meal vouchers. This is crazy! There is what appears in this catalogue of horrors but also what does not appear in it. What's missing? These are the promises of May 1st! Remember, twelve days ago, five of the seven parties in Vivaldi had said that it was necessary to tax the rich, even your party, the CD&V. The president of your party - it is true, in resignation - said: "We must tax the richest 1%." Minister, I just have two questions for you. First, will you take the Supreme Council of Finance document and throw it in the trash? Secondly, in your tax reform, will there be a measure to tax the richest 1%?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u59	Mr Vice-Prime Minister, putting a comprehensive tax reform on track is not evident, nor will it be implemented afterwards. I certainly hope we will not have to wait until your dear daughter Olivia is taxable to see them effectively on track. It's good that High Council for Finance is doing study work. It is less good that press leaks make sure that the opinion is leaked before it arrives and the reform is made difficult. Whoever does that and why I'm gonna leave it there for a while. It is clear that our taxation needs to be reformed. For us, too, there are clear guidelines which indicate the circumstances and conditions under which this should be done. We all agree that working should pay more. Today, the difference between what the employer pays and what the employee gets is unacceptablely high. Our tax system is indeed far too complex. High rates and low thresholds, probably to make certain parties happy, were and are still being compensated by increasingly growing exception and favor regimes. Last but not least, the overall tax burden should be reduced for all wages, including for medium and higher ones. To make that possible, more people need to work. For example, tax reform transcends the classic political match between winner and loser. Let's be honest, we have to think about Olivia when she pays taxes, because we can't keep sending the burdens to the next generation, like that happens today. Minister, what is your reaction to the press leak? How do you see the further time frame and the methodology for achieving results?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u60	Minister, when you are in office, there are days with and without. Given your administration's report, it's probably a day without it. That is why I sincerely want to support you and tell you that we know that you cannot share this report from the Supreme Council of Finance, which has fled from the press. You can't, because it seems completely disconnected from reality. While we are still confronted with the covid crisis and with the crisis of raw materials and energy prices, some - probably a little technocratic - imagine that they can raise the VAT rate by one point, tax rents, consider new environmental taxes and hit the self-employed through measures such as social transition or taxing pension pillars and copyright. Frankly! You will of course reassure us and tell us that this opinion is only an opinion, reminding us that this tax reform that you will have to defend and for which you will receive our full support will be directed towards the workers, not to the essentials returned to the state - as the Supreme Council of Finance seems to consider. More than just a shift tax, we need a down tax. We need, not more money for the state, but more money in the pockets of people who work. Minister, I hope and am confident that you will be able to reassure us very quickly on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u61	Minister, the government will prepare a comprehensive tax reform to modernise, simplify and make the tax system fairer and more neutral. That was certainly in the coalition agreement to read. You are therefore very enthusiastic about this period of government. However, your fiscal reform seems to be working as it is with your party: nothing seems to be working anymore. The percentages do go in a different direction. The tax burden has been unseen since the arrival of this purple-green government while your party knows unseen lows. Following a previous leak in La Libre, you will remember the article of November last year about the tax big bang of the expert group that you have compiled. This week you also leaked an opinion from the Supreme Court of Finance. Two large leaks in half a year of course do not just happen, you know that as a CD&V plumber. The leaked proposals all went in the same direction. There is talk of the removal of meal and ecocheques, the reduction of the tax benefit of pension savings, imagine, the extra taxation of married persons and even, colleagues, keep in mind, the VAT increase from 21% to 22% in these times of price increases. For the Flemish Interest, there can be no increase in VAT and the total tax burden should not be increased or shifted, but reduced. So, Minister, I have a few questions. What about your tax reform? When will you come to Parliament with your blueprint? You also explain to everyone that there are no taboos for tax reform. Is there really no breaking point for your party? What does CD&V stand for?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, this vast tax reform, I am preparing it thoroughly, and the preparatory analyses are still under way. I am still waiting for the opinion of the coordinator, that of the Higher Council for Finance and that of my administration, to whom I have asked to clarify and to elaborate on certain technical points. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear that the proposals put forward by the chairman of the Fiscal Section of the High Council of Finance are not my proposals. By the way, I haven't seen these proposals. Some balloons have already been released in the press. I am extremely shocked that the appearance is being raised that the benefits of ordinary families would be cut and that the great earners would remain out of the question. That can never be the intention. The reform will be fair and put the right burdens on the right shoulders. That is particularly important. We have said it many times in Parliament that the first priority of this tax reform is to reduce the burden on labour. In accordance with the government agreement, I must finance this reduction in the burden on labour in a sustainable manner, in particular by widening the tax base, while taking into account the neutrality of taxation as an important directive, on the one hand, and the principle of redistribution, on the other. Ladies and gentlemen, I will, of course, put a blueprint for fiscal reform on the table in the coming months. We must conduct this debate in a serene manner, and we must consider the proposal or the blueprint of fiscal reform as a whole. After all, for our future and for the future of our society, it is important that we proceed with fiscal reform. I really believe that the present Parliament and the current government should think beyond the legislature, but also beyond the party boundaries, and work towards fiscal reform. If we really want to make this reform work, if we really want to ensure it, and if we want to make the tax future proof, we will have to leave our ideological trenches. It is only in this way that we will be able to make effective the far-reaching choices that are necessary and can continue to ensure the prosperity of our country. That's what people want from us. They do not want us to stand side by side with our party programmes and show what is in it about fiscal reform, but rather that we are working on a balanced and just fiscal reform with a very clear objective, namely that the people who work will have more net wages by the end of the month.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The Group of the European People's Party fully supports your call to move forward with this thorough reform and to make it work taboo. After all, as we have just heard, only the extremes win at standstill. It is up to us, the government parties, to prove that the criticism is unjustified, to do what we have promised, to make the tax system simpler and fairer, and indeed to ensure, colleagues, that people who work are left with more. Minister, we are on the same page in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I hear the open spirit that is so important for this debate. I didn't hear that open spirit with every speaker. The Prime Minister has said here a few times that purchasing power is today the top priority for this government. If we reduce taxes on labour, so that people have net more of their wages, that is the best structural and permanent measure we can take to increase purchasing power for everyone. Today we are living in harsh times: high inflation, great uncertainty. Let it be an incentive to speed up work on this tax reform. Let it be absolutely no excuse to put it on the long track.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u65	Minister, the reform that is needed is one that reduces the most unjust taxes for the population, such as VAT. I have not heard you exclude this increase to 22% of VAT, and I am very concerned. Besides, I didn't hear you either about the millionaire tax! A specific tax that targets the 1% of the richest citizens, you have not committed yourself to it, and I have the impression that the promises of May 1 have a fairly short period of validity. We are on May 12 and they are already forgotten. And yet, this 1% of the richest citizens in our country has 660 billion euros! Yes, 660 billion euros! We see the profits of companies in the pharmaceutical sector or the arms industry that are exploding today, and the government is doing nothing to get the money where it is. This is really not the policy to follow, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u66	A sustained tax reform does not come without a minimum of restraint in policy preparation and cold-bloodedness among all government partners. To land, of course, we must first implement a number of agreed reforms. I therefore expect the socialist ministers to show the same momentum in order to complete their work as those so chatty party members who like to let 1 May test balloons go on. I am therefore awaiting the implementation of the agreed reforms on pensions and labour market activation. Les convoyeurs noted. Shouldn't we first ensure that the economy can play its full role so that more people can become rich and we can count on their strong shoulders?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u67	Mr Minister, we are truly convinced in the Reform Movement that future tax reform can only be done in favour of workers, whether they are wage earners or self-employed. We are also convinced that any tax reform that would entail new burdens on purchasing power would be ill-advised in the period of crisis that we are experiencing. Last year, the day of tax and social release in Belgium was July 16. We are the penultimate European country. We are the country where we pay the longest for the state. It has to stop! We need to reward work better. We have to pay less taxes and less taxes in this country. Minister, sit down on this advice from the Conseil Supérieur des Finances!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u68	Minister, one must dare at these times, when many Flemings are barely able to pay their bills, to launch proposals to take tax benefits and increase VAT from 21% to 22%. You say to all those who want to hear that there will be no taboos in the tax reform when it comes to the government table. However, contrary to what you say, there is indeed a taboo in this so-called broad fiscal reform. The purple-green government excludes tax cuts in advance in one of the most taxed countries in the world. That too must be dared. It's no wonder your party, CD&V, is slowly disappearing. The government is an unadulterated tax government, as any Belgian government is, with new taxes on the hood of the hard-working Flemings. It is clear to us and our constituents: we need more Flanders and less taxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u69	This concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u70	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u71	The rapporteur is Mrs Dillen. It shall refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u72	Minister, I would rather not be here today. We are waiting for draft laws from you in committee and I am somewhat afraid that in the end there will be more draft laws that will postpone matters than draft laws that will allow you to introduce cases. This is a draft law which allows you to postpone something, namely the implementation of the short sentences. You know that this is a dada of myself and our group. The usefulness of punishment is worth a debate. It is a very important debate and we have it regularly. It should be, because there is a great deal to be said about that. How can we do that? Where does one do that best? Is there enough capacity? What state are our prisons in? We need to talk about this and take a clear stand, and then we need to act accordingly. You will receive weekly questions about this, including from me. Meanwhile, there are as many opinions as questions and solutions. That's the debate. What is clear today, regardless of the debate we have to have, is what is a meaningful punishment. What's a meaningful punishment? It's very simple. That may be a small punishment, even a minimal punishment, as small as it can be, but it is a punishment that is being carried out, which cannot be avoided and therefore has an effect. That's a meaningful punishment. But that's where the shoe pinches. Those short sentences or penalties do not always succeed well in this country, let us be honest about that. Last week, in the Committee on Justice, you recorded that our justice system is repressive. Unfortunately, you weren't present at the hearing yesterday with the state's attorney's office and the federal judicial police. If we had dared to ask whether this justice was too repressive, the mouths would have fallen completely open with surprise. A lot has already been rolled with eyes and questionable glances have been changed. I do not think we would agree with that. I also disagree, Minister, because I see the situation today with the Justice Department, with the police: the investigations that cannot be carried out, the choices that need to be made. If one gets to the point where a person is brought to justice and is sentenced, one can bet on whether or not the punishment will be carried out. However, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a law has been passed in this house. We're the legislator, we make laws. In 2006, before my time, the Chamber passed the law on external legal status. That's an important law. He'll take care of the execution. It also puts its succession in the hands of a criminal court, no longer in the hands of the minister. There will be no more circulars, the judge will judge the sentence. A judge imposes them, another judge judges the execution. No more fouling around with a letter. That was not transparent at all. The judge is now competent to do so, since 2006. Among lawyers we call that law the WRP. That date alone is hallucinating, Minister. It's 2022 now. However, a large part of that law has still not been implemented, the section on short sentences. On that part, ladies and gentlemen, circular letters from the Minister are still valid today. He can play with that. It's like opening a valve. Too many people? We'll give you a little penalty discount. We'll impose some rapper-limited detention. Or deliver more exit permits. We're playing with that. That valve is opened or closed by means of a circular letter. Those circular letters, Mr. Secretary, are gonna run away with the execution of the sentence. When I say hollowing out, I mean either the sentence is not carried out, which is the case for many short sentences, or the sentence is automatically converted into electronic surveillance, an anklet, often for a much shorter period than the period of prison sentence imposed by the judge. This period is often too short to allow the justice houses to start an escort. The purpose of an anklet is precisely that there is guidance, to avoid recurrence. That's what those circular letters do. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to avoid any misunderstanding about the term'short sentences'. That's about punishing for up to three years. Three years, that's not cat piss. The fact that these penalties are not carried out is not without consequence. It may be said that the N-VA should not be so concerned with these penalties and should be subject to alternative penalties, but those penalties are imposed by a judge. Judges have a whole range of punishments that we've already expanded. They can already impose alternatives, such as probation, electronic surveillance and community service. Sometimes, however, the judge thinks that in a particular case a prison sentence should be imposed where he really thinks it is necessary. Otherwise, he'd impose something else. However, these penalties will not be carried out. The result is impunity. The non-execution of penalties is a recurring phenomenon. People just move on. An example. At the end of April, the correctional judge in Kortrijk found that a stalker appeared before him for the fourth time. That person's been in prison for 36 months. The police did their job, so did the Justice Department, but then it doesn't work with the executive. People distrust the Justice Department, but the Justice Department has done its job here, but the punishment is not being carried out. The judge specifically and loudly wondered what punishment he had to give that man to make sure he would end up in jail. That same judge got a drug addict for him less than a week later who had also committed serious crimes. He'd been in jail for 28 months. The judge asked him how many of those months he'd been in prison. The answer was not a month, he had had an ankle bracelet for 2 months. Apparently that wouldn't have helped, because that's too short to start the guidance. In short, then, Minister, impunity leads to repetition. Of course, that weighs on policemen. That weighs on magistrates doing their jobs every day. How can they expect the problem to be solved if the penalties are not implemented? In the Mercuriale in 2018, the prosecution sued that it remains with virtual convictions. The conviction is on paper, but that is it, indeed a striking understanding in these times. Not only does this result in impunity. This also results in criminal inflation. Remember the question asked by a judge in Kortrijk, which is what punishment he still has to impose in order for it to be carried out. Then what do judges do, establishing that nothing happens with short sentences? They impose penalties of more than 36 months. Why aren't the punishments being carried out, Minister? This is well known, due to the overpopulation in prison; there is not enough capacity. Therefore, judges impose longer penalties, and that is very damaging, because that makes the overcrowding more likely. That's a vicious circle. Judges also often pronounce a provisional detention order and hold suspects for the time being, because they have already had it, even if they should not be punished. That's why there's more people in the cells. That's exactly why the punishments aren't being carried out. It's a vicious circle. Another consequence that has already been overlooked in this house is that Flanders groans below. If you open the valve here and place everyone under electronic supervision, the issue will move to the other level. Flanders takes care of the ankle bracelets. Justice houses follow up on that. Alternative punishments, community service, are being followed there. There's never been so much bet on it before. People are getting hired extra. There's never been so many files opened. They're picking up the glove there. I know that Mrs Demir does so at the Flemish level, but I am afraid to guarantee that for the other regions. In any case, there is a great deal to be done to solve the failing policy here. That is the reality. So, Minister, there are a number of serious consequences for the non-performance of penalties. There is only one conclusion: execute the punishments, break the vicious circle. That is our position and we are not alone in it. The Attorney General has written an opinion of 11 pages following the draft law. I invite colleagues to read that. They also say that non-execution of the penalties will increase punishment. That's the paradox. We are also in good company in politics. In 2010, at the time, Minister of Justice De Clerck said that I was only sitting in Parliament and that there was a need for more short sentences. That makes sense to me. In 2012 - it took a while before we had a government - then Minister of Justice, Mrs Turtelboom, flanked by you as then Deputy Prime Minister, said that we would carry out more prison sentences under three years. This brings me back to the law of 2006, the implementation of which was repeatedly postponed in this house, because the site said it was not ready yet. There was overpopulation and despite the updated Master Plan Prisons there was not enough capacity yet. On 3 April 2019, Ms Van Cauter van Open Vld's bill was adopted at the last meeting of the Committee on Justice under the previous legislature and two weeks later in plenary. The Standard of 18 April 2019 headlined: "Revolution at Justice." It is actually sad that they call it a revolution when a 2006 law was to be implemented in 2019. Anyway, it was written in black and white: every punishment will be carried out. This also meant that it was done with the automatic conversion by means of letters of conversion, but that the penalties imposed by the court would be carried out. If the judge wanted electronic supervision, he could still impose it, because the autonomous penalty had been introduced. That's how it went in the headlines. We also knew then that the prisons were overcrowded. At that time, Mr Geens and Mr Francken could have opened the valve and reduced the overpopulation. At that time we also knew that things had to be done on the ground, but they were given time to do so, that is, one and a half years' time since 2006 people knew that this was coming - until 1 October 2020. But you already guessed, you've all been through it in this house, there was the formation of government and the coronapandemic, and so there was a further delay in July 2020, until 1 April 2021. I have often questioned you about this, Minister. You have always said: 'This is not an April joke, Mrs De Wit, I am going to do that job.' There were great words in the coalition agreement, Minister, and great titles in the newspapers. I'll give you an anthology. No more impunity! From now on, all punishments will be carried out! Soon small prison sentences will have to be served effectively in prison. That impunity, we're gonna get rid of it! Whoever gets 15 days in jail will have to serve them effectively! Signed Vincent Van Quickenborne. How? Extra judges, because criminal justice is needed. Extra prisons, they're in the pipeline. There's work going on. I am very curious about the update of the master plan, because I think more space will be needed. Justice got half a billion more. Mr Geens, you argued in favour of this at the end of the previous legislature, and indeed, this government was given extra money for Justice. You came up with the detention centers. Fifteen! That's a little slower, but the detention centers are a good idea. You would do the job, actually what the slogan of your party: just do it. We had another debate on this in the policy paper in 2020. It got really late then. We did that again here, and then it got really late. I was after something. You said, "Mrs. De Wit, I'm going to do that, not words, but deeds. That is what we are going to do, not words, but deeds." Since then, Minister, I am sorry, but I am looking at your actions. I'll keep an eye on that. I find it annoying, but I note that the actions are already at odds with the words. In March 2021 there was a further delay, the pandemic. We can all understand that. It would then be postponed to 1 December 2021. "But, Mrs. De Wit, you'll be fine. We are working on it." We all had high hopes here in this House. But what did you do? You have come to the committee with a real draft, which would make justice faster, more human and more criminal. You have added an amendment to that amendment to postpone the entry into force of the 2006/2019 law. Through an amendment! As a thief in the night, you did. Now to June 1, 2020. You said it would be all right. Literally, you said in committee, everyone can read that in the report: 'The only reason why it will not happen this time will be covid, but no other reason will come between that'. That also makes sense, because the terrain was really preparing at that time. People were worried, because a lot of them are going back to jail. You said only covid could interfere with your plans. The date you set for 1 June 2022 is very close. It is cynical to read the headlines in which you repeatedly state that you are responsible for the implementation of your plan, while it is postponed time and time again. When you suddenly organised a press conference on Friday 1 April, I thought it would finally happen. After all, the pandemic, which meant that you had to postpone your plan, was finally under control. Preparations had been made on the premises. However, nothing happened. I thought it was a April 1 joke. You announced that the penalties will be implemented between 2 and 3 years from 1 September 2022. So that's another six-month delay. In addition, you announced that the sentences of up to 2 years from 1 September 2023 would be implemented, i.e. one and a half years from now. Six-month sentences would no longer be enforced, as the new penal code will abolish these sentences. Regardless of these penalties still exist and are imposed by judges, you have decided no longer to implement them. That is therefore a definitive postponement, an acquired impunity. Since you are unable to carry out those sentences, you can abolish them. When I listened to the news on the radio in the car, I heard the announcement that you would effectively execute the penalties from 1 September 2022. Then my nugget breaks. It's being postponed again! I admire your spokesmen, because I'm surprised how they're getting these ever-changing plans sold. Nevertheless, I have the impression that some journalists were beginning to see that there was indeed a delay, and even a year and a half for some punishments. Fortunately, I also read somewhere that the minister bit his teeth on it. That's what I thought then. After that, however, you had to come to Parliament with it. That would have worked well on 1 April, but then you had to find a moment to talk about your proposed bill. The ideal time for that seemed to you 1 May, with a small press release that didn't stand out too much between all the speeches. Today there is indeed a draft law before us which will again postpone the implementation of the short sentences, for the twelfth time in the meantime. We keep hearing that people no longer have faith in the justice system. Yesterday we heard hallucinatory cases in the committee, not from the ordinary people but from the people within the justice system who are gradually losing their trust. I can only conclude that, despite all the tough announcements and expensive promises, you are again asking for a postponement. However, Minister, this was one of your priorities when you took office as Minister of Justice. You're giving the pandemic a reason. You're also talking about the overpopulation. You say you're still working on a law of accompanying measures. So you're going to change the sentence a little bit, and I'll deal with that later. However, you could have started earlier, because we will not be able to approve this before 1 June. I can't do that anymore. Of course, the fifteen promised detention homes are not all there yet. You say that the situation in Ukraine has taken up a great deal of reception capacity. You now find the small reception initiatives for inmates less easy. However, you have announced fifteen, and I realise that this is not always an easy task. You must, of course, put the horse in front of the cart and not the other way around. Your story could be much more successful if you first seek support and then loudly honk and communicate that there will be fifteen. In short, you have a whole alphabet of excuses, other than covid. The pandemic turns out to be a very thankful excuse, because in the margins of all this we heard about the accompanying measures which you are announcing that you are considering giving a systematic penalty reduction of six months, because the overpopulation is still a problem. During the pandemic, many inmates received a penalty discount. A pandemic is not so obvious in prison, so many prisoners were allowed to leave prison well before the end of the sentence. For the sake of the pandemic, you are now considering giving a systematic penalty reduction of six months until 2025, which is a long pandemic. So one can go home six months before the end of the sentence. You're thinking about getting that done by means of a debriefing letter. I'm curious. Maybe you'll make another bill about it after all. The judge imposes a certain penalty, but you want to change it by lowering it by six months. That is a bit the reverse of Monopoly, one does not go to prison but out of prison, without having to pay for it, for free and for nothing. By the way, if you introduce this by means of a letter of conversion, you will further undermine the jurisdiction of the judiciary. So I hope you'll change your mind. This is also contrary to the law of 2006 and to the intentions of that law, which we will postpone for a great deal today. You would have expected the N-VA Group not to like that, but we are not alone. The Council of State dislikes the way it works. The Attorney General says that they have prepared for all this to happen, but now they are looking with wonder and discouragement at the postponement and the legislative changes. Those are their own words and I think they are very polite. They explicitly say what I have just said, namely that the new postponement does not break the vicious circle of impunity, with more repetition, higher penalties, more pre-trial detention and therefore more overcrowding. They also find it dangerous, because you return to the old recipe of the mailing letters. That wasn't supposed to happen. It was intended to be removed from the executive and transferred to the judiciary, but you simply run it out again. A letter like that is like a valve, we adjust it and open it when it suits us. However, that should not be your role in the justice system, Minister. You are solving a problem which is not a problem of the judiciary, but of the executive, because it has failed in the end, as the judge in Kortrijk recently observed. It is also referred to as a very dangerous precedent for you to decide by means of a circular that punishments under six months will no longer be carried out because they will soon be abolished by means of a new law. That law isn't there yet, maybe it won't even be approved. Yet you assume that that law will be passed. That is a very dangerous precedent, with which I refer to the statement by the public prosecutor. You bypass rules with circular letters; you bypass rules with royal decrees. Apparently, that's the trick, the government's new way of working. Mr. Secretary, that's where your actions are. Unfortunately, we have to put it above all with your words. I wonder what your words are worth today. When we discussed the facts of kindergarten Dean in the Chamber, you were the first to say that perpetrators should be followed after their sentence, if necessary for life. You said that both in the Chamber and in the media. However, our amendment in this respect has been voted out. So much for your actions. To all those who wanted to hear it, you said that as Minister of Justice, you would finally tackle impunity, you would change. In reality, you do the opposite. You suffer from delay, so much so that you choose the flight ahead, because short sentences simply abolish you, so that you are rid of that annoying problem. I do not think that words and deeds can be at odds with each other, although we do see that with the government and therefore certainly with you. Someone must have the courage to finally break that vicious circle, more than ever. Our recipes are known to you. We have often said how you can deal with it, with which I anticipate your question as to how we would solve the problem. Capacity is a keyword in that. For example, you can rent capacity, as a previous government has already done. There can also be built faster and more capacity. To this end, you yourself called on the committee, together with Mr Geens, the former minister. Better cooperation with abroad is also one of the recipes. Only in this way can the vicious circle be broken. The Netherlands introduced us. If the punishments are carried out, we will eventually need fewer places in prisons, because punishment is a deterrent. We are not alone with that view, because the Attorney General says the same thing, and your party colleague, Mrs Van Cauter, had it very explicitly recorded in 2019. Someone in my group called it paroles, paroles, paroles this morning. Enough paroles, Minister, it is time to act normal!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u73	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, listen to my words, but do not look at my actions, so that we can summarize your policies today. You make punitive announcements, especially in the media, and make promises that you know most of the population will certainly appreciate and support them. However, if you also have to turn all punitive announcements into effective deeds, it will be a completely different story. You already know in advance of most of your announcements that you cannot achieve them already, because in practice many obstacles stand in the way of your punitive announcements, obstacles that are known to you or which should be known to you. The line's getting long. The draft law before us for discussion is yet another proof of this. Minister, in your explanatory statement you are talking about a short delay. However, you remain silent about the fact that this is not about the first postponement. Fortunately, there is the Council of State, which has given a very clear overview in its opinion of all the delays that have already been made. The survey illustrates very clearly that this is not a short delay. It is a question of the twelfth postponement, the honesty of which commands me to say that not everything is your responsibility. It's not the first time I've noticed that. It is a law of 2006, that is to say, more than 15 years ago. Mrs De Wit has just given a very detailed overview. I won't repeat that. Minister, once again you wish to postpone the provisions on the execution of custodial sentences of three years or less. Particularly bad is that this time you go even further than the previous one. You have announced that you want to work in stages: a postponement from 1 June 2022 to 1 September 2022 for those sentenced with total custodial sentences of more than two years and a postponement until 1 September 2023 for those sentenced with a total sentence of two years or less. In your opinion, 1 June is not feasible for various reasons. For the most part, however, these are misguided reasons, such as lack of space and the present overpopulation. In your opinion, the execution of custodial sentences of 3 years or less will lead to an increase in the number of prisoners in our prisons. However, this likely increase in the prison population, the current circumstances of overpopulation, and without accompanying measures, will cause numerous problems and would therefore be humanly irresponsible." This argument is no longer credible. The lack of space and overcrowding in our prisons is not a new problem. This has already been mentioned on numerous occasions here and in committee. It's an old very. More than 30 years ago, this was a problem that has not yet been resolved. Overcrowding has been occurring in our prisons for decades and the associated risk of inhumane detention conditions. It is not a new fact that prisoners in a cell with room for four people stay there with eight people and sleep on a mattress on the ground. This has been a fact for a long time. Thirty years ago, that was a given long before you were the competent minister. So this is no reason to justify yet another postponement. For a long time, detention conditions in several of our prisons have been inhumane. During the discussion in the committee, you will refer to the recent decision of the mayor of Antwerp which, according to a tight timetable, imposes a maximum capacity on the prison of Antwerp. This decision, too, is no reason to justify this bill. The mayor's gonna do what he's supposed to do, especially with the summer ahead. You cannot use that as an argument to justify this bill. You knew the problem of overcrowding when you issued a fine to announce that all the penalties, including the short sentences, would be carried out. The question that may be asked here in this hemisphere is the following. Then why did you promise to do this? And above all, will this problem, will the capacity problem be solved by 1 September 2022? Ladies and gentlemen, I did not receive an answer during the discussion in committee. Minister, what miracle solution are you going to bring out of your top hat to ensure that there will be sufficient capacity by 1 September? If you are honest, you already know that this will not be the case. I read in your explanatory statement that allowing the increase in the prison population to take place in the current circumstances of overpopulation and without accompanying measures will cause numerous problems and will be humanly irresponsible. That's right, I'll give you my full support. But what accompanying measures are you thinking of? What are you going to achieve in this respect by September 1st? There's gonna be new prisons. That's right. You also have our support in this, as you know. But these will not be fully finished and ready for use by 1 September. For example, the prison in Haren, good for about 1,190 places, will not be ready until the earliest in autumn. Moreover, you also know that the introduction of Haren will take some time. So this one isn't ready by September 1st. The same applies to the new prison in Dendermonde, which accounts for about 450 places. If everything goes as it pleases, it will be ready by November, so not 1 September either. The same applies to detention homes. The realization of your announcement to open 15 detention homes this year is far from being achieved, on the contrary, and will not be achieved by 1 September. You will have to admit that, Minister. In other words, the arguments of new prisons and detention homes do not answer the fundamental question of whether your problem will be resolved by 1 September. The Council of State is also asking whether this short delay is realistic and credible. In such a short time, 3.5 months, you cannot and will not manage to implement sufficient accompanying measures in practice to ensure that the situation in our prisons is improved humanly. In other words, contrary to your statement in committee, you are threatening to go further along the path of postponement, even after 1 September. Minister, do you realise that this bill is also particularly demotivating for the judges who have to apply the penal law on the ground? Why do you keep ignoring punishments imposed by the judge? That is a question that is being asked more and more openly. The fear is therefore justified that the judges themselves will intervene and will ensure that prison sentences can actually be carried out if the judge believes that a prison sentence finds the correct punishment and therefore imposes a higher penalty. This draft will once again give rise to penalty inflation. In other words, this bill will have no impact on prison capacity, and this will not solve the problem of overpopulation. In your explanatory statement, you refer to changes in legislation which are currently under discussion and which aim to promote the social reintegration of the convicted prisoners, thus facilitating a better exit from prison and thus having a beneficial effect on the overpopulation. For example, you refer to amendments to the law on the external legal status of detainees. What other legal changes you are planning is not really clear. In any case, the legislative changes announced are also not responsible for a further delay. As far as I know, the lyrics aren't there yet. The question arises when Parliament can expect them. The fact that they can be discussed before the recess is not realistic. And so they will not apply on 1 September. Then about the war in Ukraine. After the corona-excuus, which had to justify the previous apology, there is now a new excuse, which must not be missed. Buildings that could qualify for new detention homes are now being filled in for the reception of war refugees from Ukraine. At least that's what you're saying. Allow me to say that the situation in Ukraine is really very serious and that it is our duty to give good reception to refugees from this war zone. However, using this argument in this file is not a serious and correct argument. I read in the explanatory statement that it is very conceivable that locations potentially eligible as alternative detention capacity for short-term punishment will now be used earlier to alleviate the reception need for Ukrainian refugees. However, we did not get any clarity as to the specific locations and how the creation of alternative detention capacity would slow down. As far as the detention homes are concerned, I questioned you and you did not want to tell me which locations are now on the pipeline, because that would, in your opinion, immediately lead to protest on the ground. However, in your explanatory statement, you stated that on 1 April 2022 you submitted a list of available premises to the Council of Ministers, which apparently agreed to the purchase, renovation and entry into service of detention homes. So it seems that a decision has been made. Parliament and by extension the people have the right to know the content of that decision. I would have liked to know which locations they are talking about, what the actual timing is, and above all, it is a good thing that the Minister responsible is here, because that way we can all of a sudden hear your answer if there are enough budgets available. With this draft law you will work with a new approach. You are providing a phased approach, as I said earlier. There is no way that we can agree to this. You indicate that, I quote: "A phased entry into force is foreseen which is tailored to the capacity that is reasonably expected to be available on the respective dates of entry into force and will allow the impact on the total prison population to be reduced." That too is not a correct motivation and is actually very vaguely formulated. After all, what does that mean, the capacity that is reasonably expected to be available? On the basis of which criteria do you fulfil the reasonable expectation? I did not receive a clear answer to that question during the discussion in committee either. What if that capacity is not reasonably expected to be available? Will you then come back to Parliament after 1 September to ask for yet another postponement? I have already warned you, but I repeat that you will not have that additional capacity by 1 September. I would have liked it to be different with you, but unfortunately that will not be the case. Prison sentences under six months will not even be carried out. The opinion of the College of Attorneys General talks about a very dangerous precedent. This announcement cannot be accepted by our group either. In this context, you have made promises as a minister. I quote a few quotes to prove your punitive promises: "Whoever gets fifteen days in jail will have to serve them effectively." That's what you said in an interview in De Morgen in June 2021. "In addition, we carry out all the short sentences, so that we put an end to the feeling of impunity." That statement is not from a newspaper interview or some article, it is in your policy paper of October 2021. Those are just two examples, I can read a much longer list here. The coalition agreement also clearly states that the short sentences will also be implemented, because the execution of the sentence will remain problematic as long as this does not happen. In the latter, you are right, but add the deed to the word. A policy-maker can expect the people to keep their word and take action. Unfortunately, that is obviously too much to ask. As an argument, you gave to Mr O'Brien, now it is entirely true that prison sentences under six months have not been carried out since 1970. That's right, I can endorse that fact. I thought you were familiar with that fact when you made your announcements. It's not a new fact. Then why did you promise to execute short sentences and communicate with the population? Why did you announce that anyone who gets 15 days in jail should serve them effectively? Admit it, that sounds very good for the public, but the citizen, the people, can expect your announcements to be realized as well. Do not be alarmed, Minister, if you are described as the Minister of announcements, without concrete achievements. Minister, what are you going to do with the prison sentences of six months or less for someone who, for example, does not pay his fine or who does not comply with the conditions for the alternative prison sentence? Will these people be allowed to go free, too? Then impunity becomes the whole rule. You also refer to the new Criminal Code, which has been announced for a long time, which is apparently being finalised. You did not give any specific timing when I asked you to do so, but you have already said that this new Criminal Code will not provide for penalties of less than six months. The question that can be asked here is whether there is any certainty about this. Is there agreement within the government on this? I'm curious. In any case, I understand that the discussions are still ongoing. In any case, no texts are yet available, so much is clear. Furthermore, what about the early release of COVID-19, a favor that allows prisoners to leave prison six months before their sentence? Even though we criticised this measure at the time, we still had some understanding for it in view of the health situation in full corona crisis. Today you can no longer justify this favor, which you are only using in an attempt to provide an answer to the overpopulation. You cannot justify it to society, not to the victims, and certainly not to the judges who, in all conscience, impose a penalty, after a thorough study of the criminal record. This will again give rise to criminal inflation. What also bothers me is that you have once again not involved the Communities in this draft law. You are well aware that the punishment also affects them and that consultation on this matter is important. Why do you keep ignoring me this time and time again? Minister, this is not credible if you want citizens to regain confidence in politics and in justice. It really is a question of undermining political credibility. I'm not the only one who feels that way. I would like to refer here to the detailed opinion of the Council of State, which is very clear. Let me quote again: 'This method of legislative action is resentful as it undermines the awareness and predictability of the legislation. The principle of legality in criminal matters, which is not only formal but also material, requires the law to meet specific requirements of accuracy, clarity and predictability. In particular, laws relating to the imposition of penalties and their implementation must comply with the constitutional qualities of public awareness, clarity and predictability in the application of them in a rule of law. In the light of this, the legislator must set the date of entry into force in a sensible, realistic and credible manner." It is clear that the Council of State decides that the current government does not set the new date in a sensible, realistic and credible manner. I have also received no reply in committee to the question as to how you will demonstrate that the deadlines proposed for entry into force now comply with the constitutional principles. Nor have I been given an answer to my question as to how you respond to the question of the Council of State in order to demonstrate that the new dates of entry into force are realistic and credible. Colleagues, referring to additional capacity in the form of detention homes, which I have already noted will not be there by 1 September 2022, and to a structural increase in capacity in classical prisons, which will not have been achieved by 1 September 2022, is not an adequate answer. Mr. Secretary, there's more. During the discussion in the committee, you really had a look at the way in which you see the future implementation of your criminal justice policy in the reform of the Criminal Code. Prison time should be the exception rather than the rule. So I've heard. Apparently, there is already an agreement in the government not to include prison sentences of less than six months in the law. Colleagues, listen carefully, because here it comes. Minister, I quote you literally: 'This country is far too repressive and has too much of a flaming policy in terms of punishment'. You said that literally on the committee. These are particularly harsh words for a Minister of Justice, and certainly for a Minister of Justice who wants to make justice more criminal. Too repressive, explain this to the many victims of thefts by force, extortion, armed crimes, rape, terrorist attacks, great banditism that often demands human lives, and so on. Explain this to the judges who, on a case-by-case basis, judge with knowledge and conscience, try to pronounce the correct penalties. Explain this to the members of the public prosecutors, investigators and members of the federal judicial police, who, day after day, have to find out with far too few men and resources the serious crime and compile a file on the basis of which the prosecution can take place, but today, in increasingly serious cases, for example, of heavy banditism, suspects are forced to go free in the absence of research capacity and who risk losing the fight against organised crime. Those are literal testimonies yesterday in the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs and for Justice. That is the reality on the ground, witnessing the distress call of the Public Prosecutor's Summit, the Federal Prosecutor, the head of the FGP. They speak with knowledge on the ground. This is quite different from your claim that this country is far too repressive. The Flemish Interest Group is radically opposed to this bill. It is impossible for us to accept yet another postponement. Non-execution of penalties only leads to more impunity. Those are not only my words, but also an important warning from the College of Attorneys General. An imposed punishment must be carried out, with the necessary guidance within the prison and with a view to reintegration into society. Only in this way can punishment be effective. This bill again runs counter to your numerous raging announcements to make justice more criminal, as you promised and on which a first law was already passed in this Parliament. At that time, you announced that different laws would follow. You then made a comparison with the potpourri laws of the previous legislature. In any case, I hope that this draft law does not belong in this list, because that would be a very curious interpretation to make justice more criminal. This is once again a breach of your promise to carry out all the punishments, including the short ones. It is impossible for us to support that. Minister, if you do not want to be remembered as the Minister of announcements, it is urgent to change your shoulder.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u74	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it will not be a surprise when I say that the MR Group will obviously support your text. We did it in committee. We have had the opportunity to explain at length on this subject. Ms. De Wit has brilliantly recalled the historical facts since 2006. It is true that it has been a long time in a rule of law. When a law is passed, it is said that it is enforced and enforced. It is not your fault that this law has not been enforced. This is a bit the fault of all successive governments. It is above all, I believe, the fault of the principle of reality. Is it a mistake to be confronted with reality or is it a wisdom to face reality? Of course, we are all in favour of the enforcement of sentences. No one is going to dispute this, for several reasons. First, the feeling of impunity is not a good feeling in the head of the person who committed a crime. No one's gonna challenge it. In the case of the victim, it is quite unpleasant to imagine that a person who has been convicted will be released without the punishment being applied; no one will dispute this. It is also clear that law enforcement officials, judges and magistrates who have been confronted, in the course of their work, with this type of behaviour, must be frustrated when sentences are not carried out. No one's gonna dispute that. And then there is the principle of reality. I said it in committee. It is natural that, when you took your term of office, you said, like other ministers with other majorities, that this time you were going to go. That this time you were going to do it, and that the punishments were going to be carried out: "Account on me!" And I think you did the best you could. We even gave ourselves an appointment clause. It was when, for reasons related to the covid - which Mrs De Wit challenged, in any case for part - I told you that I was not sure that it would be possible to do so because a series of realities were likely to put us back in the face of a postponement and it would be a pity that, in the execution of short sentences whose symbolic and effect are very strong, we are rationalizing this appointment. You gave me an appointment clause. The appointment has arrived. You have decided to postpone partially, within a more or less short period of time for sentences of two to three years, within a slightly longer period for the others. I asked you in committee to re-explain the fact that you have dissociated the types of penalties – you probably have information that we do not have – to justify this somewhat differentiated entry into force, which is finally coming. I did, as I told you, my work as a parliamentarian. So I went to Lantin's prison on the bright side. I met the management who told me they weren't ready. Lantin Prison is a little over 900 inmates. At the base this prison is designed to accommodate one inmate per cell, what is called "monos". Unfortunately, the reality is that a cell has two inmates. It's a fact. The field actors asked me if I thought we were sending a good signal by incarcerated someone, for a short sentence, when the optimal conditions are not met if we want to avoid that person coming out of the prison less good than when he entered it? Is it in the right condition that a person who has to serve a short sentence does not reoffend? Imprisonment for the first time, even for a short sentence, can have an impact – especially on more or less honest people. The others will consider that after serving their sentence, they may move on. As I have already said in committee, it is very important to be ready when you decide to enforce these sentences within a very short period of time. You said it was complicated to have detention houses because the mayors who are contacted are not very supportive of them. I'm a mayor. Other mayors, such as Sophie De Wit, are present in this assembly. We should be able to organise a debate on why the mayors are a little reluctant, even if we have already had the opportunity to have this debate with the Secretary of State. This is due in particular to the fact that they must decide immediately. But such a decision is not taken so quickly. Why? Because a debate must be possible within the municipality concerned. Perhaps you miss a step in the discussion? When you come with such a proposal – I think my fellow mayors will not contradict me – there should be accompanying measures. It is necessary to explain to the public the reasons for the establishment of a detention facility, as well as the benefits it can bring. As a mayor, I was rarely asked about the reasons why I was not very supportive of the installation of this kind of house or that I was in favour of it while not having the possibilities to do so. It would be interesting to think with local actors to better understand why it is so difficult to set up these detention centres, which are part of the solution, even if this is not the only solution. The new Penal Code is at our doorstep. We can't miss this date. Judges have at their disposal a fairly interesting set of sentences, in accordance with the evolution of our society. That's a good thing. In other words, we will have to think about the purpose of the prison or not, as well as the meaning and usefulness of a sentence. There's still a lot of work to do. It would be a shame to overturn this case, on the pretext that we would like to respond to a request from the opposition which, inevitably, plays its part in reproaching us for not having kept all our promises. In my opinion, to be wise is not to be weak. On the contrary, this sometimes makes it possible to take the right step towards the society we represent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u75	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is not my custom to stand on the stage, but out of solidarity with colleagues, I thought it was appropriate to address you from this chair. Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Madam President, at the end of the previous parliamentary term, we gave Mrs Van Cauter the privilege, albeit with a minority and with a fairly united opposition, of presenting the legislative proposal proposed today. I remember when we even convinced the PS, which was not so easy when it was in the opposition. It has been a great concern of Mrs Van Cauter since the beginning of the legislature. I say this because today she is the lucky governor of the best province in the country, at least the one where the most beautiful Dutch is spoken. Mr De Roover, you are mistaken, it is not about Antwerp. Mrs Van Cauter said at that time that we were going to carry out the short sentences. However, she was also the one who said at the beginning of the new legislature to the new Minister of Justice that we would not impose penalties of less than a year in the new criminal law. Those were two points of contention of Mrs Van Cauter. If she were here, she'd confirm what I'm saying. Minister, Secretary of State, I was just struck by what Mrs De Wit said about the judiciary. It says certain things, also reportedly in Kortrijk, and is not followed by the executive. I've been on the executive side. I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that it is easier to be in the legislative power than in the executive. So I've been in executive power. Under the Minister there is an administration that, especially with regard to the prison system, works incredibly hard. My empathy today goes first and foremost to those people. They get ukazes from everywhere and must try to run the prison system with too limited capacity. The day when we no longer find 35 or 40 prison directors willing to work day and night, we have a serious problem in this country. So we'd better take good care of those prison directors. Like the magistrates, MEPs and ministers, they are people of good will. Minister, I hear that you may come up with accompanying measures. I would like to say something about this, which may not be unimportant. It is very easy to imagine it over and over again as if the executive had to close the gap. I'm going to give and look at seven possible flanking measures, very quickly. First of all, the remand. For some 20 years now, we have been saying that pre-trial detention is the major cause of the overpopulation. What has the legislator done so far, ladies and gentlemen? Nothing. The legislator shudders to limit the duration of the pre-trial detention, in function of the duration of the sentence on the crime. Those who, as a minister or expert, dare to use the word quota in their mouths, are kindly sent to walk. If it's friendly, it's not so bad. However, it is obvious that if the population in the detention homes cannot be regulated and there is a constant overpopulation, there will be situations such as the Tour de Lantin. If we do not tackle the issue of pre-trial detention at legislative level, which is being done in many countries, then the problem of prison overcrowding will not be solved, how many prisons Mr Michel also dreams of putting in the future. Secondly, a case which we have also entrusted entirely to the judiciary since the Dutroux case is conditional release. We also reiterate that the duration of the sentence to be effectively executed is certainly not reduced and if it is slightly extended, also with the safety period or security period. Ladies and gentlemen, that is a reform which I remember when I put it into practice. The conditional release is used sparingly by the criminal courts, which is also the judiciary. The psychosocial services in our prisons are also more frightened than in the past to propose conditional release, as prisoners should never be released who may do anything wrong. We forget, however, that if prisoners serve their sentence in its entirety without being succeeded during their punishment and by definition not after their punishment, the freedom of the European Convention on Human Rights is sacrosanct, so security is much less served than conditional release under conditions, the succession of which may last until long after the release. That debate is hypocritical, just like that of remand. If we work on these factors by creating a social climate that is a little bit more tolerant, a lot can happen. In some jurisdictions, provinces or arrondissements, or whatever it is called in the new law reforming the judicial landscape, one dares not use the anklet to carry out the pre-trial detention. On occasion, I can mention those jurisdictions, but I will not do so now in the Chair. Thirdly, I once had some sympathy for the measure of extended penitentiary leave, which could possibly be applied for several weeks. Mr Minister, perhaps you can look at this when you apply accompanying measures. In this way, stakeholders can prepare for the labour market and in the meantime serve parts of their sentences, so that the objectives of re-inflation, re-socialisation and punishment are combined. In a fourth point, I come to the alternative punishments. That soup cup could be used much more eagerly. Mrs De Wit, whom I listened to very carefully, said that it was a Flemish competence. Well, I would be pleased to have that power, because that would allow us to pursue our own criminal policy in Flanders, cut to the bespokeness of the prisoners involved. Fifthly, I would argue for not too many short prison sentences. You will try to convince me, Minister, later or later, that it makes sense to enter sentences of less than a year in the new Criminal Code. For me, this is still a trauma for the time being, as the Criminal Code was killed in the previous legislature. There was support for not imposing penalties of less than a year. Today, a centre-left government dares to say that, I am from the centre, but it is still centre-left not to come up with penalties of at least one year. How am I supposed to understand in 2022 that a number of parties are not in favour of this? I will understand that, Minister. You'll convince me. It has been announced to me that you will do so, and as always I listen to the government and follow her with great love. Sixthly, exporting non-regular prisoners to the mother country through closed asylum centres is an important way of emptying our prisons. To be honest, Minister, I do not follow everything, it is not that easy either, but at some point in the previous legislature I hit ten thousand prisoners. I'd like to understand why it's 11 grand today. Perhaps that's because I was far too tolerant, because I was not repressive at all, but I was in a center-right government, I thought. I was also from the center at that time, and I still am today. Seventhly, everything we are talking about here has to do with capacity, and that is why I am so pleased that you have come into tandem today and that we can welcome the Secretary of State for the Government of the Buildings. We have updated many master plans and we have come to a capacity of 10,500. That is the objective. Today, prisons in Haren and Dendermonde are being completed. I have already said it in the Committee on Justice, Mr Secretary of State. I have to repeat it today to be just. I think it's going way too slow. I think that the agricultural policy is far too slow. I was in the last government, as you know. At that time, I did everything I could to find in the Liège soil where one could replace Lantin. I visited there with certain members of the then majority. I've done dozens of phone calls with local politicians. I understand that there is still no land found in Liège today to build a new prison, while every minister visiting Lantin urgently needs to go home to drink a small glass more in the evening. Can you imagine what it's like to be in Lantin's director? We can talk a lot about the magistrate, Mrs De Wit, we can talk a lot about the executive, but what is it about being director in Lantin, in that windhole? You have recently visited it with the committee against torture in Strasbourg. Lantin is a mockery to our country. It was built in the mid-1970s and is much younger than me, but it looks much worse. It is a shame that no place has been found yet, excuse me for saying so, for the whole province of Liège and for the government. Mons is in a terrible state. Verviers has been spoken for a long time. Paifve, terrible state. Aalst. Mr D'Haese is not here, so I will not say anything about it this time. Leopoldsburg, scheduled for 2012. It's 2022, colleagues! Leopoldsburg wants a prison. That's a city that wants a prison! Ten years. I have heard Mr Goffin, usually and now a wise man, say that it is important for the government to go on the ground and convince the mayors. It is important that she convinces the mayors and provides compensation, seeks support and ensures that one wants coûte que coûte. It's not from this pulpit. That's why I'm standing here. That's why it's decreed that there should be a prison in Verviers. In fact, there were parliamentarians who asked me every week during the previous period of government when prison was to be held. One has to do it on the spot. I beg you, also in connection with the new detention homes, to try to find support at local level. Every party, every minister and every mayor will have to come out of their quarters for this. In the previous committee debates, I heard Minister Van Quickenborne say that we are far too repressive in this country. I see he's moving to my center, too. I think so, too. However, if you want to use the detention homes effectively to prevent detention damage in the case of short-term punishment, it is high time we started doing so. This is what we are talking about: we want to avoid that short-term punishment would already cause detention damage at the time of their first punishment. I make a warm and common appeal to all of you, and in particular to you, the Minister of State and Secretary of State responsible for matters, to take the accompanying measures that justify our voting on a further postponement today. It may not be the last. I don't know. I always have compassion for an administration that says it doesn't work. However, it is high time that people on the ground saw the construction and that we gave some indications to the judiciary that there are limits to the endless extension of matters such as pre-trial detention and to the less use of conditional release. I hope you will find the strength to do so. You can count on my support.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u76	Madam President, Minister, once it is not customary, I will support your postponement proposal. We will support the PVDA-PTB Group because we are opposed to this policy of carrying out short prison sentences. We are opposed to it because it is a policy that is both unrealistic and ineffective. This is proof of the behaviour of this government and all previous governments that have for years promised to execute the short sentences, but each time they postpone the execution. Today is the twelfth postponement. It is true that the pretext for postponement changes. We talked about the covid and the Ukrainian crisis, which means that there are fewer places in detention facilities. But we know the real cause of this postponement, minister. It is the overcrowding of prisons and the lack of staff in prisons. Our prisons are overcrowded. I was going to talk about the state of our prisons, but Mr. Geens did. He could have acted when he was a minister. The fact is that these prisons are in a deplorable and, above all, overcrowded state. There are currently 1,300 prisoners in excess of the places available in prison. According to your own figures, the execution of short custodial sentences will result in the arrival of an additional 720 prisoners. This is more than half of the current overpopulation. Detention homes will absorb this surplus of 720 places when they are opened. We know that many mayors are reluctant to welcome them. And even by counting all places in detention centres, you will not solve the problem of overcrowding that has only been getting worse for years. Another problem, distinct from that of places in prison, is the lack of staff. Currently, there is a shortage of 5 to 10 per cent of prison staff compared to the framework, the same framework that had already been reduced in 2016 as a result of the rationalization project. The backlog of leave for officers has increased further; today, on average, 60 days of leave to be taken per officer. Of course, recruitment is taking place, but you know as well as I do, Minister, that is simply not enough. There is a shortage of staff on all floors: officers, psychosocial services, transplants, sentence enforcement judges, etc. In short, these new inmates, we do not currently know where to put them, nor do we know who will take care of them. I am not alone in pointing to this problem: the College of Public Prosecutors himself states that "these measures are necessary because of the figures relating to overpopulation". He adds that "at hearings in Parliament on the laws aimed at the entry into force of custodial sentences of less than three years, each actor involved in the enforcement of sentences has warned the political world that this entry into force would create serious problems in practice, in particular because of the problem of overcrowding, and that the simplest and obvious solution was to bring into force the provisions on custodial sentences of up to three years only when the announced expansion of capacity and the establishment of detention centres became effective". In short, they tell you that this law is inapplicable until the entire infrastructure is in place. Between us, Minister, we know very well that this will not be done by October. Therefore, you can count on the PTB in October, we will support the postponement that you will present in October. Do you prefer September? We will support in September, or July, or August. Whatever you say! But you're going to present a further postponement. You are going to present a thirteenth, a fourteenth and a fifteenth, because in any case, you are not going to be able to release all the necessary seats by then. It's a fact. The College of Attorneys General tells you that. There is no point in applying this bill if you do not have all the seats. It will therefore be unfeasible! Secondly, it is an ineffective policy. Choosing to execute short prison sentences is ineffective in the face of crime. I would point out, because the last time I told you this in committee, minister, you told me that I was not in favour of the enforcement of sentences. That's not it. When a sentence is handed down by a judge, it must be applied, otherwise it will strengthen the feeling of impunity. We agree on that. That's not what I said. I said, are the short prison sentences effective? You even agreed with me. Alternative penalties were needed. It's not something I'm inventing. I'll see what the experts say about this. I quote Harold Sax, a criminal lawyer and member of the International Prison Observatory (IOP): "There are myths or beliefs that being repressive would have an impact on crime rates and recidivism. But that is totally wrong. The recidivism rate in Belgium is very high, while the incarceration rate is high. There are other countries in Europe that are closing prisons. This is becoming a trend: to find alternatives to this form of punishment, which we believe is not an interesting penalty. At the PIO, we are in favour of a reductionist vision of prison sentences, focusing on other forms of sanctions such as community service, electronic bracelets or fines. However, Belgium is in the opposite direction. With the Prison Masterplans, there is an increase in the number of places in prison and we have already noticed that if these places exist, they fill. However, the recidivism rate in Belgium is 60%, which would tend to show that imprisonment does not have the educational virtues expected." For criminal lawyer Pierre Chomé, the use of prison is intensifying. I quote: "I have the feeling that the political world is going straight into the wall. According to the latest statements of our Minister of Justice (you therefore), the will is to have all prison sentences executed, even the smallest. This means uprooting people at the family, social, professional level, etc." Our prisons have never been so filled with so few resources. All of this risks exploding the prison world with all the risks involved. A final quote from Damien Vermeersch, Advocate General of the Court of Cassation: "If the prison neutralizes an individual's negative abilities, it also neutralizes positive abilities. What often appears to be essential for victims is the risk of recidivism. It must be noted that the prison creates a significant risk of recidivism." In short, the prison creates criminals. People go back to prison for delinquency, others into a temporary arrest, and they learn how to become criminals. All actors agree to say so and to limit prison sentences. Even you said it in committee. Minister, since you are in favour of alternative penalties and the Penal Code needs to be amended in this regard, I do not understand the contradiction in which you are placing yourself. If you are convinced - and I hope you are, if you defend this idea, it is that you must be - that the application of short prison sentences is not effective in the sense that alternative sentences would be more effective in terms of reintegration into society, why do you strive to implement this project when it is both inapplicable on the ground and ineffective against crime? Therefore, I do not understand this double game of supporting the need for alternative sentences, because prison sentences are not the solution, as all experts and all the statistics – since we have the highest rate of recidivism in Europe – demonstrate, and, at the same time, to defend a bill aimed at applying these short prison sentences. In conclusion, the best prospect you can propose is, first of all, to withdraw this bill. It is not a question of systematically postponing him, but of depriving him of his logic. If it is ineffective and inapplicable, it has no reason to be. Believe me, it's possible to find alternatives to prison. Such projects would be much more constructive for our society and beneficial to our people, as they would reduce the rate of recidivism. Examples of prison policy change exist in Europe and are much more effective against crime and recidivism. Why don't we follow this path? Why are we pursuing a policy that has not worked for years and only worsens the situation in prisons and in terms of crime? We close our eyes and continue on the same road. It's incomprehensible, minister. I'd like some clarification. For what reason do you maintain this project, when it is inapplicable?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u77	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be very long because we have already had many debates in the Committee on Justice on this matter. Indeed, this is not the first time that this question of postponement has been submitted to the Commission for its consideration. The last time we postponed the execution of short sentences was in November, when the law was discussed for more humane, faster, firmer justice. At the time, we validated the proposed deferral. Six months later, we are faced with a text that has to go through urgently, with a view to making a further postponement. Prisons are just as worried as they were in November. It is on this point that I will allow myself to insist. Of course, we could talk about the meaning of punishment, our prison system, the reform of the Penal Code to find alternative penalties, etc. But today we are faced with the urgency of this postponement, on which many players in the judicial and prison world have expressed themselves that a postponement until September would not be sufficient, that implementation takes more time. It is therefore on this particular point that I wish to question you. While voices were raised earlier, others were also widely raised later. I haven't heard a single actor from the judiciary say that in three months, everything would be ready. This is the twelfth postponement of the entry into force of the Short Sentences Act. Of course, not all postponements are your responsibility. The fundamental problem of its entry into force has existed since the creation of the 2006 Act. The problem is that there is no answer to the fundamental question – which was also asked by the Council of State – about how this three-month delay is truly realistic and credible in the face of the situation. That is the essential question today. We are, of course, looking forward to the promised reforms on the Penal Code, on the meaning of punishment, on the path of imprisonment. But we expect, above all, credible answers about this new postponement in the face of the concerns of judicial actors. Minister, are you making a firm commitment here and now that the Short Sentences Act will apply as early as September? If you can't make this formal commitment, you absolutely have to get out of this communication in which you have locked yourself up and, with humility, you have to listen to the actors on the ground who keep repeating to you that it is totally unrealistic. That will be my only question and I really ask you to answer it. Are you making the commitment that this is the last postponement to which the prison world is subjected? Perhaps you will think, before the vote, of the fact that it is not realistic and that it does not make sense to lock up in a communication so that, in any case, it is necessary to put the work back on the job in a few months' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u78	Minister, this bill is intended to delay for the twelfth time the coming into force of this famous 2006 Act, which seeks to enforce what is known as short sentences, that is, sentences of imprisonment of less than three years. Personally, this is already the third time I have to vote for a postponement of this law. I can therefore imagine the fatigue of my colleagues who are now voting for the fifth, ninth or twelfth time the postponement of the entry into force of this text. Yet we are almost all in line with the primary objective of this 2006 law, which is to combat impunity. So, minister, how can we explain that you, as well as your predecessors, even the most experienced ministers of justice – we heard one just now – have still not been able to adopt the right strategy to finally execute these short sentences, even though you had well identified the causes of this overcrowding: the failure to comply with the law on preventive detention – Mr. Geens has returned with great eloquence – but also the still too timid use of alternative measures to imprisonment? As a result, the problem lies not in your bill as such, but in your overall strategy to ensure that these short sentences are carried out in a calm manner, with respect for the dignity of prisoners, but also in respect for the already extremely difficult working conditions of prison staff. Minister, this strategy leaves me sceptical because in our many exchanges in committee, your answers were ultimately based only on an increase in our detention capacity. As I have already told you several times, we are certainly not against these investments which are necessary, especially when we see the state of great oldness of our prisons. What we stress here is the recklessness in which you insist on setting each time a date of entry into force for the execution of these short sentences, while the terrain – he says it very clearly – is simply not ready to ensure it under the best possible conditions. So, if we were to carry out the short sentences today, it would simply be the disaster. A year ago, we had no idea even of the potential impact, on the ground, of the execution of these short sentences. Today, you tell us that there would be simulations on this subject, in order to assess precisely these repercussions. So you've heard the actors in the field. Also a year ago, the execution of short sentences was to take place at once. Today, you retract in your strategies to tell us that the execution would ultimately be carried out in a delayed manner, in stages, first for sentences of more than two years, and then for others. In the same way, at the beginning of the parliamentary year, you were also planning the execution of the short sentences in December, but this time it was the voice of the prison directors that changed your mind. All this shows, Minister, that you know how to listen, but also - and above all - that you know how to hear the field. I have to ask you my first question: are you now ready to adapt your strategies, at least to investigate different or complementary solutions that can ensure the execution of short sentences in good conditions, first of all by responding favourably to the request of the College of Attorneys General, which is to set the date for the entry into force of the law on 1 November next, with a view to enabling, once and for all, all the actors in the field and the criminal chain to carry out this new legislation? Above all, it is important to ensure that new judges and additional staff, who will therefore be appointed specifically for sentences of up to three years, have sufficient background to be operational, but also to ensure that the circular you have announced - which is therefore intended to adapt the procedure to new legislative changes, including rather heavy technical amendments - can be drafted and implemented in time, taking into account the judicial timetable. This is a request that my group supports, especially since an objective such as the enforcement of short sentences requires the widest possible support on the ground. That is why we have tabled the amendment which you have all received and which, I hope, can be supported by the majority. In this case, it would be a postponement, accompanied by guarantees for the consultation and preparation of the actors on the ground, and not a postponement - like the one you are proposing today - which is not accompanied by any. You are asking us to wait, on the grounds that you are working on a bill aimed at social reintegration and a reform of the Penal Code. But what do these texts finally provide for? How will the rehabilitation programme in particular address the problem of prison overcrowding by 1 September, the following day, should we recall, of the judicial holidays? Will this project address non-compliance with the Pre-trial Detention Act? Should I remind you that more than a third of the detainees are currently in preventive detention, while a large part of them should not even be in preventive detention? The increasing use of this measure by judges was objected to last December by the National Institute of Forensics and Criminology. Minister, in the absence of clear answers, you are asking us to buy you a cat in a bag. It is always unpleasant, but it is even more so when it comes to working on such a crucial issue for our justice and security. On the other hand, the College of Attorneys General attests to us that the execution of the short sentences on 1 November, instead of 1 September, would be much more timely, given their weak means which they still had to remind us yesterday. This audition seems, moreover, to have served as an electroshock for all of us. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very concrete opportunity to show them that your support is effective, not theoretical. Secondly, I wanted to highlight some things about alternative penalties. Like the Netherlands and France, it is necessary, before they are executed, to establish a system of alternative penalties which is solid and which focuses on the fight against recidivism and thus on reintegration, by removing several benign offences from the criminal field and, consequently, from prison. I regret, for example, that prison sentences of less than six months were not abolished before the short sentences were served. I know that for this to happen, we must wait for your reform of the General Penal Code. But admit that having the short sentences executed and then working on the definition of what these same short sentences are, is a little doing things backwards. The problem with alternative penalties is also that it is felt that they do not work. That is why some magistrates prefer to send someone to prison rather than impose an alternative sentence on them. But if we could, Mr Minister, on the one hand strengthen the follow-up of offenders who are serving an alternative sentence and thus have good results on non-recidive and non-reintegration, and if we could, on the other hand, make the judges aware of the results of these alternative sentences on the ground, then we could greatly reduce the number of prisoners entering and thus ensure the execution of the short sentences in good conditions, as we all want, I think. If the magistrates could have the guarantee that an alternative sentence for an offender would allow that person to be redirected and accompanied and become or become a responsible citizen again, I can assure you that there would be far fewer prisoners in our prisons. I believe that the judges should be given confidence in these tools, which are already at their disposal. Developing alternative penalties, but also making judges aware of their usefulness, are the ideas that have been submitted to me by several researchers or civil society actors who believe deeply, like me and my party, that a sense of grief must be restored. Hence my last question, just as important as the previous ones. Do you share this vision? If so, how will you achieve it? Will your famous draft reform of the General Penal Code meet this need? I really hope, Mr Minister, that the answers that you will give me on these points, both on supporting the actors on the ground for the entry into force of this law, and on alternative penalties as such, will make the vote on this project by my group, not a vote of spite, but a vote of confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, one of the most difficult things in life is to grow a house while living in it. If there are too many people living in it, it is even more difficult. However, that is exactly what is happening with these reforms, because the punishment in our country has been ill for decades. She's not bankrupt, as Mr D'Haese said, that's too much of a sentence. However, she is ill, as we have been facing overcrowded prisons for several decades, which is problematic. In order to tackle the overpopulation, there will first have to be more prisoners, then the number will fall. That was the approach of the Netherlands at the time and that is how we would like to do it. Punishment is crucial in this respect. Reference is made to the judge from Kortrijk who asked why his prison sentences were not carried out. Punishments of 28 months and 36 months are penalties of exactly 3 years or less than 3 years. Since the beginning of the century, the policy of automatically converting such punishments into wearing an ankle bracelet has been pursued. As a result, judges pronounce sentences of more than 36 months so that they are sure that the convicted person will certainly end up in prison. Another consequence of this is that investigators decide to proceed more quickly to pre-trial detention because they are sure that the person in question will have been in prison for several months. That is quite rightly the analysis of the problem. We all share this concern. I think that the majority and the opposition agree that these penalties should be implemented. The opposition is displeased because it is postponed to 1 September and other sanctions even to a later date. As an opposition member, I'd be angry, too. The opposition is so humble to admit that, when it was part of the majority, it also approved it. It is a problem that we have all been carrying along for a long time, and it is a problem that we are all guilty of, first and foremost, myself. Mrs Dillen is so kind that she says that the first eight, nine or ten delays are not my fault. It's a responsibility of all of us. There are two reasons why it takes so long to execute it. The first reason is that it's never the right time to do that. Thinking that one can only do that, if one has first eliminated the overpopulation, is wrong. That will never happen, because the problem of overpopulation is just linked to the fact that we do not carry out short sentences. It sounds paradoxical, but it is. The second reason is that today we have a number of framework conditions, I admit that it is not enough to have created a step-by-step approach. The detention homes are an important link in that. Of course, they will not be all ready on 1 September, Mrs Dillen. Some of them will be ready. Together with the Secretary of State, I have established eight locations on April 1st. We are going to realize them step by step. It is not so much a problem of building, Mr Geens, it is a question of political courage. Mr Goffin said that we still have to give people, communities a little time. One follows a process that first requires the selection of a building. At the Régie des Bâtiments, for the past year, we've been working like crazy people to find places. We're talking about dozens of places we've visited. Feasibility visits were made to the building to ensure the condition, the work to be carried out and also the environment. There's contact with the mayor. I personally met a large number of mayors. So saying we're not working on finding a draagvlak is not right. We organize meetings with the population. Frankly, to think that one can find a commune or a city where everyone, the whole population is excited by the opening of a detention house, does not exist. There is no such thing! There will always be resistance. I agreed to that. If one does not see that, then one does not know the file. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's Mr. Van Hecke can testify. I've been around him, too, and I've talked to people there. So we will be able to open some of them. We'll do that step-by-step. Thanks to the decision of my predecessors, we can now open two new prisons, in Haren and Dendermonde. This is also a step-by-step approach, but from September or October onwards we will still have 382 additional places, Mrs Dillen. Two existing prisons are also kept open longer, namely those in Sint-Gillis and Dendermonde, which also provides 350 places. So we do have some capacity to implement the measures. We will indeed do so step by step. I admit that. In a first phase, it concerns the penalties of two to three years and in a subsequent phase the penalties that are shorter. I'll be on the six-month element later. In addition, we also have a draft law, which will be discussed in committee in June, in which we describe a number of conditions and make a number of adjustments to allow for limited detention. Mr Geens suggests a number of other elements. I'm thinking remand. A round table on this issue will be held on 10 June. That is not an easy political discussion either. The provisional detention can now be imposed at a time when the sentence is one year or more. There is no limitation on this, but as soon as we do that, some will complain that the system is not sufficiently repressive and that there are not enough possibilities. I also hear from the College of Attorneys General that provisional detention is being used, because in the Communities too little capacity is sometimes provided for the follow-up. Nor do I wish to point out the error of one or the other. I believe that punishment is the responsibility of both the Communities and the federal government. So I don't think it's one or the other's fault. We all have to cross the bridge together. Mr Geens also referred to conditional release and the fact that prisoners are increasingly going to end their sentences. A hopeful figure is that in 2021 only 51.3 % of people were punished, while in the previous years it was often 60%. I think that is a consequence of the fact that the PSD was invested in the previous legislature. We're doing that again now. I think we should start parole early. But it is better to work on a conditional release than to carry out a sentence where prisoners leave prison without control and without supervision. I am also fascinated by the figure of ten thousand at the time. We're now around 11,000. Part of the explanation lies, of course, in the fact that at some point we were able to open two FPCs, which led to an outflow of interned people. Unfortunately, in recent years, the number of interned people in our prisons has risen again, despite the fact that we have built two FPCs. Part of the increase is due to a lack of flow through corona to the classical institutions. Today, however, judges may also place the internees a little too quickly and a little too easily in that way. We also invest in healthcare teams in anticipation of the three FPCs, which will be built. Colleagues, we will implement the step-by-step penalty as from 1 September 2022. Mr Boukili, thank you for your support, but I will disappoint you. Indeed, as early as September 1st, it will be executed. You suggested that the execution be postponed until October, which will not be the case. So I'm going to disappoint you. I hope, however, that you will continue to support the project. There is, of course, still discussion about those six months. Mr Geens, you ask why that can't be a year. I understand that the whole debate on the Criminal Code was over at the time and that the three experts even left at that time. I don't know if it was with slamming doors, but at least they left. I deeply regret that, even though I was not there at the time. I have the impression that we could now find a consensus in those six months. With seven parties, that is a fragile consensus. However, you know that this discussion has not yet been fully resolved. We will create the space to do so. In any case, Mr Damien Vandermeersch is one of the three experts. So, if you believe in him, you believe in the new Penal Code. I will not say much more about this, because much has already been said in committee on the many oral questions. I admit that the start on September 1st will not be easy. The pressure on our prisons will rise a little bit, I admit that, but we really need to take this step. We cannot allow it to continue to be postponed and the first phase will therefore start on 1 September. There's no getting away from that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u80	Madam President, the Minister of Justice has already responded to a number of points. I believe that there can be no effective justice without an effective sanctions policy. For my part, and this is my role in this government, I am attentive to the fastest way to build or free places but also to improve conditions of detention. It has been mentioned that some prisons do not make pride. This government has made it a priority to build new places and to fight this overcrowding through two essential tools. The first was the multi-annual investment plan, which was presented a few months ago in the Mobility Committee in December 2021. The second is the Masterplan III Prisons set up a few years ago, which has been updated and in which the ambitions of this government are clearly identified. How do we act? We are acting with the utmost determination either through DBFMs; this is the case, in particular, for the Mons prison, which was mentioned earlier and on which we are currently working; or through own funding clearly identified in the Multiannual Investment Plan. We operate on several types of investments such as legal psychiatry centers. Today, part of this overcrowding is linked to populations not adapted to certain prisons. This is the case with Paifve, Wavre. Important work is also being done, as has been said, on the new prisons. Haren's prison will be delivered to us in the coming months. We are starting Vresse-sur-Semois and Léopoldsburg, new prisons that increase capacity. We are renovating and expanding some prisons. You mentioned Lantin, for example. It is on our agenda to move forward as quickly as possible. Certain working and detention conditions are indeed unacceptable. The remarkable work that is being done today by some prison directors has been pointed out. I can only agree with that. The case we are dealing with today is the construction or assignment of detention centres. There are almost 720 places to find. This is a real challenge and we are making good progress on this point. It's essential. We work as fast as we can, but it's hard work. I am sure that we will already be ready to deliver some of these places in the next few months. We can indeed be frustrated and consider that this work is too slow, but I would like to point out that there are a multitude of obstacles to be overcome when we want to work and very particularly on detention centres. There are, of course, the legitimate criteria of justice for identifying needs, i.e. identifying the nature of the buildings we need to find and the situation. These buildings can't be anywhere. Reference was also made to the need for consultation with the municipalities. I really need to acknowledge the very important work that is being done, not only by the teams I work with every day, but also by the teams of the Justice and Administration Office, since the consultations with the municipalities are very important. It's true, it's difficult. In fact, beyond the accession of the communal council or the communal college, there is also the accession of the population that must be sought. We spent hours and hours working on the idea of finding a number of places. Then we'll find some. I'm not worried. But it is clear that acceptance is regularly very difficult. I also pass on to you the difficulties in terms of urban planning regulations. Work is under way. It's speeding up. This requires rigour and determination. I've been in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments for a year and a half now. That's right, I haven't caught up with the backlog of my predecessors yet, but we're doing everything we can.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u81	Madam President, I will not take too long, because this will certainly not be the last debate on this issue. Mr Geens, at no time do I blame the people on the ground in prisons. You are right when you say that they work very hard in ungrateful circumstances and I do not want there to be any misunderstanding about that. I hear you saying Flanders isn't doing enough. Flanders does more than ever. There have never been so many files on electronic surveillance and follow-up to community service sentences. In the reform of the state, they were given that power. The budgets didn't come all the way, but they're picking up the glove. I dare not say anything about the other regions, but Flanders does what it has to do. Minister, I will never say that this is an obvious exercise. It's not obvious. Mr Goffin says that we must have a sense of reality and you say that it is never a good time. I want to believe you, but you have chosen that moment now. You have now said that we will do so. It surprises me, but it does not surprise me, that you now sound very moderate and say that it will happen gradually. However, the headlines you had recorded were all different - tough, loud, promises. And that's just the point. That it will not be all right overnight, everyone will understand, but you have said so. You said you're the man who'll take care of that for a while. Then you must keep that promise, too. The mistake that is made every time is that if it does not succeed, the valve is solved. There isn't enough capacity, so we just adjust the population, but actually we just have to provide enough capacity and then we will have empty cells at some point, like in the Netherlands, and then you have succeeded in your mission. As far as capacity is concerned, this is not concrete. Then maybe that sense of reality comes along, but I can't hear it. Break that vicious circle. Where else are there gonna be other places? What's taking so long? Can it go faster? Mr Secretary of State, you say that you are talking and searching and that it is a accumulated delay for your predecessors, but where is that updated master plan? Then what are your new plans, your new visions? I can't hear you about that. The minister's talking about detention homes. He will even tell the counters that 70% of the overpopulation will be taken care of with detention homes. Then you won't have 15 detention homes, and if we're lucky, we'll have three this year. Then there's a lot of work to be done. You've set that bar so high, and time and time again, you're going under that bar. Stop that right now. Keep going.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u82	Minister, we have had the opportunity to intervene in detail in committee and in plenary. I have three comments to make. You say that the problem of overpopulation is linked to the non-performance of short sentences. I assume that you mean that the judge will punish a little over three years in order to ensure that the person who comes before him should be sentenced to prison as an appropriate punishment, if he is confident in his honour and conscience. That's partly true, but not quite. When people in Antwerp effectively appear before the correctional court after a long pretrial, much higher claims are made by the Public Prosecutor's Office and the penalties are also pronounced. I refer, for example, to the large number of suspects in the context of Sky ECC investigations and the serious drug crime in Antwerp. There are no exceptions there for six, seven or eight years in effective prison time in Antwerp. You are now saying that this is mainly related to these short sentences, which is partly correct, but I do not fully endorse that. Secondly, we will discuss later whether or not to impose six months' imprisonment. I understand that there is already a consensus on this, and today you are a little more nuanced about it and hope that you will find that consensus. The discussion is clearly not yet fully resolved. That is for the future, but under the present draft law, you want to do six months' imprisonment and less. I have asked you a very specific question and I think it is important to have an answer to it, namely what you are going to do with prison sentences of six months or less. I have given you two examples. If you do not pay a fine, you will receive a prison sentence of two, three or four months, depending on the file. Sometimes the favour of an alternative punishment can be obtained, but a number of conditions are imposed in function of the facts committed. If these conditions are not met, they will be replaced by a prison sentence. It would not make sense for those prison sentences not to be carried out either. If I am equally naughty, then I know what many confrers will advise their clients, namely that the conditions of the alternative penalty should not be met and that the fines should not be paid. I hope you're gonna put some nuance into this. That should not really be the intention, because that would make impunity the whole rule. I have one final comment to make. You say that you will work phased out from 1 September and that you cannot afford to keep postponing it. You are right, but I hope that you will promise with your heart that this is really the last delay here today and that you will not come to Parliament after 1 September to ask for a further postponement. I've come up with a lot of things about that. You have made very clear promises and strong statements to the people regarding the implementation of the short sentences. I hope you mean it now and that this is the last delay, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u83	Minister, you have not answered my question. I didn't hear you make a firm commitment. I understand that this is not easy, given the fact that you certainly know that you will have to carry it over again. That is why we will abstain from this project. We are, of course, in favour of postponement because the provisions are not concrete. But we also do not want to be ridiculed of ourselves and, in particular, the judicial world and the prison world. As you said, it doesn't necessarily fall within your purview. The Secretary of State explained all the difficulties encountered in implementing detention centres, etc. I'm just asking you to show a little humility. By abstaining, it is not a question of saying that we are against this project, against the postponement. But we are not fooled and we know that in September you will present us with a new project. The proof is that you have not made a firm commitment to this Parliament today, saying that there will be no further postponement in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u84	Minister, with regard to the new Penal Code, if in it custodial sentences are replaced by alternative penalties, we will support this provision. However, as I understand it, it does not go in that direction. This is our position on short sentences. Minister, I asked you about the contradiction between your willingness to replace prison sentences with alternative sentences, in any case for short sentences, and the desire to implement this project. If I understand your logic, you say that if the short sentences are executed, there will be an increase in the prison population, followed by a decrease, because the judges impose longer sentences to ensure that they are executed as well as preventive detentions to ensure that the suspect spends at least a little time in prison. You follow this logic to maintain this bill. If it was a question of responding to the contradiction that I raised, I am even more lost than before, minister. Either we think that prison is a good solution for short sentences, or we think that it is a bad solution, and we must act accordingly. One cannot say something at once and act in the opposite direction. That is exactly what is happening with this bill. Yes, as I said, I will support the postponement. But I do not support your project to enforce these short sentences of deprivation of liberty at all costs, since it conflicts with our common objective here, which is to reduce recidivism and to act for a truly positive reintegration for society. This bill does not go in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u85	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, as a Member of Parliament, I am a huge fan of plenary sessions, because everything comes together here. I have a curiosity. I find it a pleasure to see what has happened in the committee rooms. I'll learn something from that. This certainly applies to the very interesting debate here between justice specialists. I am not a legal expert; my expertise lies with the budget and we can see in the budget how the words spoken here are translated into concrete actions and funding. It is often in the figures that the real reality is apparent. After all I have heard here in the debate, allow me to make three brief comments. First I have a general comment, then I go into the promises and finally I go into the figures. Firstly, to have said it, we fully understand that the government is investing in a number of key tasks, such as defence, justice and security. We live in a special time. There is a great debate about all other expenditure and about the absence of reforms. However, there is no discussion about the fact that investment is being made in the core tasks. Mr Van Quickenborne, if you now complain that the opposition is just angry because it is in the opposition, then my clog breaks. That's not why we're angry. We are angry, because of what Sophie De Wit has just pointed out here, namely that you come here time and time again to ask for money and make quite firm promises and then to break your own promises again and again. That's why we're angry. As a budgetman, I'm extra upset about that. I'd like the numbers to be correct. I would like people to know what happens to their tax dollars, that things are transparent and fishable and that their money is not being squandered. Second, about your promises, I'll give you the following. I have written down what you said here today during the debate, namely that the sentence is not bankrupt, that it is ill and that we all know it. Minister, that is correct. We all know that, but you knew that from day one. We all knew it, including you, from day one. But during various budget debates and, according to what I read in the report, in committee and again here today, you underlined that all penalties would be implemented. Even at the beginning of the corona pandemic, you smashed yourself in the chest that you would do it anyway. A few months later, you said live on tape, Minister, I can let you hear the passage; I specifically looked them up today that you would never call in any excuse other than Corona, not to implement the law. Those were literally your words. You said the corona pandemic didn't matter; you were going to enforce the law. Afterwards you complained: Oh, well, there's corona. You broke your promise, but added that you would never use Corona as an excuse again, and once the pandemic was over, you would enforce the law. You have repeated your words here in a nightly debate, in reply to Mr De Wit. The corona pandemic is over, but once again you fail to deliver on your promises. Today, you seem to have found a new criterion: support. It's because there's not enough local support, that you don't get your promises implemented, as if you didn't know about the first day that it's not obvious to build prisons or detention homes in some community. I cannot imagine that a minister like you, Mr Van Quickenborne, who has been involved for such a long time, did not think from day one that you might consider a criterion of acceptance if you made such strong and strong promises. Thirdly, I will go into the figures in more detail. The advantage of a long debate today is that we can confront you with the tables we have just received. In the coming weeks, the budget will often be discussed. Budgetary control took place on 1 April. Finally, we have seen the tables. What's in those tables? I analyzed it. You're getting a hell of a lot of money. Compared to 2019, there will be around half a billion extra to Justice for 2022: from 1.9 billion to 2.4 billion. For 2022 alone, you will receive 175 million. On top of that, thanks to the investment plan specifically for the Justice Department, an investment of EUR 18 million will be added, and for the Buildings Management EUR 73 million will be specific to the detention homes, aspect that raised my interest during the debate and made me look at the tables. I am glad, Mr Michel, that you are also here, because it is above all about your domain that I have huge questions. I see that for detention homes a budget of EUR 18 million is foreseen in the multiannual programme for Justice. Of these, 10 million should be spent this year, according to the tables. That is about 55% of the budget that Justice will spend on, for example, staff. You must bear that burden. Minister Van Quickenborne doesn't have to pay for the building. Who's gonna pay for the building? Mr Michel! 73 million have been entered in the multiannual budget for the Buildings Management Committee. How much of this will be spent this year? Only $6 million. I think that's weird. I'm also looking at Minister Van Quickenborne's figures. He gets EUR 18 million, of which he spends EUR 10 million this year, equivalent to 55% of his budget for detention homes, to staff who have to work somewhere. Where are these staff members supposed to work? Apparently in buildings for which EUR 73 million is foreseen, but of which only EUR 6 million is spent, which corresponds to 8%. So this year, Secretary of State Michel spends only 8% of his budget, while Minister Van Quickenborne already spends 55% of his budget, as he says he will get everyone to work. These wages seem to have to be paid, but I can't derive anything from where those staff will work, as only 8% of the budget is provided for under the Buildings Regulation. Mr Secretary of State, frankly, I am still content that you are spending 8%, because we have already discussed in the Chamber an adjustment sheet for the budget for 2022. A budget has already been approved for the Justice Department, but at that time, a good month ago, your expenditure still had zero euros. That's why I'm glad you already made up a grade. I really cannot understand how, with 8% of your budget of EUR 73 million, you will ensure that Minister Van Quickenborne can fulfill his promises. Mr Van Quickenborne, that is also your responsibility. I cannot imagine that a minister with a long track record like yourself would not have made that determination. Apparently, you have not noticed that Secretary of State Michel, responsible for the Directorate of Buildings, is absolutely not doing the necessary. That's what I'm worried about. I wanted to say this today, but I am sure that we will come back to the budget debate in detail, because there is something wrong with your figures. We do know when Secretary of State Michel can spend money: at the last minute, through an amendment, a few buildings purchased from the Brussels Zuidstation, for a few hundred million euros above the market price. Mr Secretary of State, it would be a good idea for you not only to look at the real estate sector in other cases, but also to fill in the real priorities. Perhaps that will enable your fellow minister, also of a blue party, to finally keep his promises.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u86	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u87	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2645/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2645/3) The bill has six articles. The draft law has 6 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u88	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u89	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u90	Madam President, I can and will refer to the written reports, but I am obliged to make an oral report on the meeting of the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities, where the amendments Nos 2 and 3 are not accepted. 33 and No. 158 since no written report has yet been drawn up. This oral report therefore concerns the meeting of the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities of 10 May 2022. That is when Amendment No 2 was adopted. 33 discussed, tabled by myself and my associates, as well as Amendment No 33 tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and Amendment No 33 tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and Amendment No 33 tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer At first, the authors explained the two amendments. I would like to go into this in more detail, because it is good for those who were not present in committee to know what this is about. The main proposer of Amendment No. 33 explained that the purpose of the amendment was to omit Article 69. In fact, an agreement has been reached with the Fédération Wallonia-Bruxelles on the organisation of a comparative entrance exam, a numerus fixus, for access to medical studies. As a result, a robust filter is obtained on both Dutch and French-speaking sides for access to the studies. The numerus fixus should ensure consistency between the number of students admitted to basic training and the federal quotas, which give access to the special professional title. The amendment also provides for a deperation formula. Students who succeed and successfully complete their studies will receive the guarantee on a RIZIV number. On the basis of Article 92 (1) (5) of the Coordinated Law of 10 May 2015 on the exercise of health professions, any derogations from those quotas may be transferred to a subsequent year. A numerus fixus is the preferred solution. The regulation of quota attestations is suboptimal, as repeated several times in the debate. Consequently, this Article will be deleted and an inter-federal body will be set up to ensure proper synergy and data and information exchange between levels of competence. The agreement should lead to a planning of the medical supply better adapted to needs, with specific attention to the bottleneck disciplines and balanced distribution across the territory. It should also lead to compliance with the federal quotas, in line with the above requirements, and also to legal certainty for students. Then there was Amendment No. 158 by Mrs Fonck van Les Engagés, who also seeks to omit Article 69. After all, the article robs students of their future and ends a course that has lasted for some students for eight years. That's unfair. The speaker noted that the holders of a diploma obtained in Europe are automatically entitled to a RIZIV number. That was when all the groups spoke, some briefly, others more comprehensively. I'll get back to you. I shall begin as usual with the N-VA, by Mrs Van Peel's mouth. She referred to the coalition agreement which states that the response mechanism is provided for if the federal quotas are not respected. She noted that this is now being thrown overboard. The vote will take place at the next voting time. 33 comes down to a general's pardon. The agreement reached by the Swedish Government will come to an end. The speaker points out that in Flanders there are 14 medical specialists on hundreds of thousands of inhabitants. For the French people there are 23 medical specialists out of hundreds of thousands of inhabitants. According to the Minister, this would not entail any additional budgetary burden. In Wallonia, however, there are 14 % more contacts with hospitals than in Flanders, 29 % less daily hospitalizations than in Flanders and 80 % more emergency consultations than in Flanders. For the speaker it is therefore clear where the medical overconsumption is located. Moreover, quotas have been started to control the health budget, while quality is monitored. That quota system works, she says, because Flanders has a cheaper, more quality care system. Mrs Van Peel also refers to the 2016 entrance examination organised in the French Community. That exam didn't pass the judicial review. The results were suspended by the Council of State. In 2017, there was also a conflict of interest with the French Community Commission against the legislative proposal containing a compromise solution. An entrance exam was then introduced for the year 2018-2019, where more than the double number of students could start their studies. Also, the 2019 protocol agreement on RIZIV numbers was not signed by the Walloon Region and the French Community. In short, on the other side of the language border the strategy of the promises that have not been fulfilled is used, she says. It also asks the Minister whether he has any guarantees that these promises by the French Community will now be fulfilled. She added that the medical syndicates were not so enthusiastic about this development and asked what the minister would do if these promises were not kept again. Why is this stick behind the door in the bill, Article 69, omitted? The speaker notes that efforts are being made at Flemish level, but that they benefit those who do not take it closely with that federal loyalty. Mrs Hennuy is much shorter in her speech. She will be presenting her detailed statement in plenary today. We're still expecting this. At the sitting, she expressed her satisfaction with Amendment No. 33. A balanced agreement was sought. The problem of quotas is now finally being dealt with. It is also important to determine why there are deficits. The discussion is over. It is now important to find an answer to the fundamental questions. What are the objectives of public health and how are these objectives achieved? It supports Amendment No. 33. Mr Prévot of the PS also expressed his support for Amendment No. 33. It provides clarity. He is pleased that the consultations have taken place. He's satisfied with the result. It is clear that the subject of quotas is sensitive. An honourable solution was sought and a good compromise was reached. The agreement will lead to stability and, above all, legal certainty for students. After all, it is the students who have to keep the health care straight tomorrow. Mr Creyelman of the Flemish Interest goes into more detail on Amendment No. 33. He clearly expresses critical reservations and does not support the deletion of Article 69. He says that an agreement has finally been reached with the Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles, but on the other hand there is a general pardon for exceeding that quota for years. The speaker also wondered whether this agreement would be respected. The file is complex and has a long history. He also describes that long history in his statements. He then, like others, ends up with the transfers. Mr Creyelman raises the question of whether these transfers are now being cancelled. The agreement reached receives the necessary criticism from the Flemish general practitioners, general practitioners in training, Flemish specialists, specialists in training, medical syndicates and medical students. The agreement does not, in his view, contain any solid guarantees and is therefore not an historic agreement. In fact, promises are being made again, but why did the Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles change? Why should they keep to the agreements they have made now? He also asks me at the sitting how this can be justified by the thousands of Flemish students who have not been allowed to start their doctoral studies in the last 25 years. He also says that it is true that Flanders allowed a higher number of students in 2019 to start studies in medicine and dentistry than in the federal quotas. The speaker pointed out, however, that the quota of doctors was initially increased annually by and for the remainder on the French-speaking side. He also talks about the lissage system which allowed the French community to carry out prepayments. The quotas for subsequent years were thus partially used up. The speaker therefore argued that the reimbursement of the preliminaries made by the lissage system was in sight. So the federal response is now being removed. He notes that the only guarantee was contained in Article 69. This article came through the government agreement which explicitly mentions the federal response mechanism. That article is now being removed. Finally, Mr Creyelman wonders why Article 68 was not retained if the Minister had such confidence in the French Community. Mr Daniel Baquelaine of the MR agrees with the agreement and says that it is a positive agreement for all students who lived in uncertainty about their future during their studies. The speaker is fond of the entrance exam, although not everyone thought so on the French-speaking side. The two amendments tabled, my own and Mrs Fonck's, are identical, but they are fundamentally different. Mr Bacquelaine explained this. He said that Mrs Fonck's amendment did not come up with a solution. It simply deletes Article 69. In other words, it does not solve the uncertainty of students and no adjustment of quotas is foreseen in the future. It doesn't set a numerus fixus. Amendment No. 33 by Mrs Vanpeborgh operates in a completely different context. The amendment confirms a balanced agreement. There is the commitment of the Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles to organise a comparative entrance examination, which provides for an agreement between the number of incoming students and graduate students who have access to the medical profession, according to Mr Bacquelaine. Realistic quotas take into account the need for health care, the need for care and the different needs in both parts of the country. The speaker pointed out that many French students were enrolled in the French Community. When they graduate, this means a loss of supply and must be taken into account. A reserve must also be available in the event of new epidemics. Some are fundamentally opposed to admission examinations, but these comparative admission examinations guarantee the quality of the training. That's important, according to him. It prevents the number of tenders from exceeding the quality of training. The speaker also pointed out that the Planning Committee on Medical Offerings took account not only of the number of students admitted to study but also of the state of play of the active population in the community when determining quotas. If the number of doctors formed exceeds the quotas, the Planning Committee will take this into account when setting future quotas. That is a regulatory mechanism. There is no point in maintaining a system that has been dysfunctional for years. He concludes by saying that a political agreement requires trust. The commitment of the Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles is strong. The Government of the Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles already approved the agreement on 5 May 2022 and the Minister of Higher Education was ordered to draw up a preliminary draft decree by 25 May 2022. The speaker reiterated that the agreement reached was a good agreement. It allows us to start from a good basis for the coming years and to match supply and demand. We now come to Mrs Nathalie Muylle's speech from the CD&V, who was provoked by the question of why Rule 69 disappears. It has replied that Amendment No. 33 is a necessary first step, which has never been taken in the past, not even under the previous government. A concrete commitment is now being made to set up an entrance exam. The speaker hoped that the amendment would suffice and called for mutual trust. The present solution also offers the possibility to build in additional reserves. Mrs Muylle herself included the response mechanism in the coalition agreement, but on the understanding that federal planning would be further developed in order to reach an agreement. In the absence of a chord, the response mechanism would be exploited. The Minister of Health was then given the mandate to consult with the Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles. What is now before us is the result of that consultation. The speaker was not in favour of the quota attestations. They are indeed not an ideal but a suboptimal solution. It is not desirable to deny students access to further training after six years of study. The speaker knows what that means to the students and their parents. That wasn't a proper arrangement. It is time to look ahead, to give what is before us today the benefit of the doubt. The solution also contains locks, she says. If the quotas for examinations are exceeded, they will be corrected in the future. Mrs Muylle is convinced that Minister Glatigny of the French Community, responsible for higher education, will act in good faith. Control is taking responsibility. Today the first step has been taken. Then I come to Mrs Merckx's comments from the PVDA-PTB. She says that Article 69 poses a threat to students in the course of their academic course. The Minister uses that article to increase pressure on the Fédération Wallonia-Bruxelles. The article is now deleted after reaching an agreement on the numerus fixus. Yet that article is not off the track, because it can be activated again when the chord reached remains dead letter. In that sense, there is still uncertainty for the students. The speaker also pointed out that she had tabled an amendment with an inverse scope at the time. Once the course in medicine is completed, each student gets a RIZIV number. It says that the French-speaking students are in favour of Amendment No. 33; it puts an end to legal uncertainty. The students do not support the agreement reached which introduces an entrance examination which makes access to the study more difficult. She also points to Mr Arthur Vleugels, former professor at KU Leuven, who no longer finds an influx restriction of this time and states that this is simply the result of lobbying work. Inflow limitation is particularly supportive of those who focus on performance medicine. She firmly says that the agreement leads to elitist medicine, whereas there is a need for doctors from all sections of the population. This brings me to Mr De Caluwe's discourse, which states briefly that he understands the doubts of some of his colleagues. The dossier has been dragging on for years, but he believes in the proposed solution. He also says that he will follow closely the execution. It will then be up to the Minister to respond to all that. He proposes that amendment No. 33 puts an end to years of craziness. From now on, a good range of doctors and dentists can be produced seriously and unanimously. A political agreement has been reached between the federal government and the government of the Federation Wallonie-Bruxelles. If the Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles accepts a detailed document in which precise agreements have been made, the federal government agrees to the withdrawal of Article 69. The Minister also says, like Mrs Muylle, that it is a first step, but that there are also important four control moments to follow. The Government of the Federation Wallonie-Bruxelles is asked to issue a draft decree in May 2022 on the organisation of the comparative entrance examination, i.e. with a numerus fixus. In September 2022 it will be verified whether the number of students enrolled for the current entrance examination is not in breach of the quota of 2028. In November 2022 there will be an agreement on the deperition key. Of course, it will also be carefully monitored to see whether this deperition key is respected. The Minister has every confidence in it and says that it is not empty promises. He says the Federation Wallonie-Bruxelles and the federal government share the same ambition and diagnosis. He emphasized that there were different review times. He also states that it is the credit of Mrs Muylle and her party to insist on that federal stick in the form of government. In non-respect of the agreed quotas, there will be a federal system, but that is, he says again, suboptimally. The Minister also states that some criticisms are based on serious misunderstandings. There's no general apologizing at all. The Planning Committee, on the basis of a refined methodology, takes into account the offer that has been made and which will be available until 2027. The Planning Committee is moving away from that reality. The French Community agrees with these figures and the Flemish and French-speaking members of the Planning Committee also agreed. There will be a brief debate between Mrs Van Peel and the Minister. Mrs Van Peel once again said that Flanders did not agree with the agreement, that there was no consensus and that the Flemish medical associations were against it. She also says that the Minister institutionalizes the fact that French-speaking doctors work less and are therefore more needed. The Minister stresses once again that the methodology used was unanimously approved by all members of the Planning Committee, that there are many misunderstandings, including among the Flemish doctors' associations, and he also states that the balance is included in the figures by the Planning Committee. The Minister does not wish to threaten this suboptimal solution. The agreement will solve a historical problem. Mrs Vanpeborgh then notes that quotas were not always respected in Flanders and that generations were played out against each other, but she wishes to leave the past behind and chooses the way forward. There is no empty promise, there is an agreement, and there is a greater commitment to planning. Moreover, regional imbalances and specialities deficits are included in the new calculation module. I come to Mrs Fonck, who says she is satisfied with the deletion of Article 69, but also that it has been brought about thanks to the vigilance of the opposition. Thanks to the vigilance of the opposition, the pressure increased and negotiations between the federal government and the Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles came to an end and that led to the loss of Article 69. It agrees that the quality of training and training must be guaranteed and that the needs of public health must be taken into account, but this is not enough. Members have taken note of the opinions of the Planning Committee, including the recalculations, and it is particularly important to provide sufficient doctors and dentists who have been formed in Belgium. That's the way to guarantee quality. Then I come to the last speaker, Mrs Sophie Rohonyi. DéFI also welcomes the deletion of Article 69. However, she also indicated that this is also partly due to the work of the opposition and a strong mobilisation of French-speaking and Dutch-speaking students. At the end of their studies, these students should be given the opportunity to practice their profession. She considers Article 69 to be blackmail. Amendment No 33, on the other hand, follows the path of the negotiations. According to the N-VA group, there is no shortage of general practitioners in Flanders. However, Mrs Rohonyi referred to the findings in the Special Committee on COOVID-19, where it appeared otherwise. The ageing of the population and doctors is making this situation worse and so more doctors need to be employed. The agreement reached objects to health needs. The quotas in the agreement were increased, but they are still too low, according to the speaker. According to the N-VA group, the Flemings pay for the lack of professionalism of the French speakers. However, the speaker found this very stigmatizing. She asked whether Minister Ben Weyts could also be criticized for a lack of professionalism, as Mrs Vanpeborgh said that quotas were sometimes exceeded in Flanders too. She closed with a number of questions to the minister. She noted that the mechanism in Article 69 could still be activated. She wondered under what circumstances this would happen. Doesn't that mean that the students have no legal certainty? The Minister then gave a very last reaction. He referred again to the agreement. He argued that if, in September 2022, the number of students passed the entrance examination for the academic year 2022-2023 is unreasonablely different from the fixed quotas at federal level, taking into account the deperition, and there will be no absorption mechanism, that last point, i.e. the invoking of Article 69, could still be considered. However, the Minister trusts the government of the Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles. Moreover, the government will include in its decree a correction mechanism in the event of an overrun. This should then be eliminated within a period of three years. Amendment No 33 by Mrs Vanpeborgh and Mrs Consorten, who deleted Rule 69, was adopted by 10 votes in favour and 5 against. That is why Amendment No 2 was rejected. 158 by Mrs. Fonck without object. The draft law as a whole, as amended, was adopted by name with 10 votes in favour and 6 abstentions. In favour of Ecolo-Green Mrs De Laveleye, Mrs Hennuy and Mrs Platteau, for the PS Mr Prévot and Mr Rigot, for MR Mr Bacquelaine and Mrs Taquin, for CD&V Mrs Muylle, for Open Vld Mr De Caluwé and for Vooruit Mrs Vanpeborgh. Have abstained: for N-VA Mrs Depoorter, Mrs Gijbels and Mrs Van Peel, for the Flemish Interest Mr Creyelman and Mrs Sneppe and for the PVDA-PTB Mrs Merckx. The number of votes against was nil. I thank the services and the secretariat for the input they have provided for the oral report, which had to be produced very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u91	Thank you, Mr Vanpeborgh, for your very detailed report. I was already discussing with Mr Muylle and Mr Fonck whether we could not simply refer to your statement in our speech. I know the Minister would like that, but the unfortunate thing about the whole thing is that I have heard a few mistakes in your report. Now I have to intervene. Moreover, I regret that I feel obliged to repeat myself in this dossier, because I am really convinced that my Flemish colleagues in this House have still not fully understood the dossier. It's complicated, too. Otherwise, she couldn't just go along with what's on the table here today. Colleagues, I will explain it to you with great commitment from the beginning. If you'll let me. If you won't let me, so will I. I will talk today about something that is not in the draft. That is original, you might say, but things that are not in a design can be hugely important, especially if they have been in it for a long time. I am talking about the particle contained in the draft various provisions on the so-called response mechanism in the medical quota dossier. Dear Flemish colleagues, I can assure you that the French-speaking colleagues know this dossier very well. They can also very well draw a common line in this story. So, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps it would be helpful if I again outlined what we are talking about here. In the late 1990s, the federal government decided to introduce medical quotas. That wasn't a popular measure. That didn't happen to be funny. This happened because they wanted to reduce the amount of medical students. The federal government would determine how many RIZIV numbers would still exist for the graduate doctors. Why did she do that? The answer is not insignificant. It did so in order to reduce the overconsumption that was excessive at the time in the care sector, and also to ensure the quality of training. So that was because of two principles, namely, first of all, overconsumption and far too expensive care, which was not intended, and secondly, the quality of training and good doctors. That's a vision of health care. In this country, however, everything is complex. Since education is a Community competence, Flanders has already organized a strict entrance examination to maintain that quota from the start for more than twenty years now. The Flemish government did not become popular, because that exam meant that she would have to report every year to thousands of families that their daughter or son was not allowed to start training. However, she did so for the great good. She took on her responsibilities and sought good health care. You will now think: what did French-speaking Belgium do twenty years ago? They just didn't do anything. They have also lasted for more than 20 years. They have always literally refused to implement a law that had been approved by themselves at their oh so beloved federal level. They simply continued to build up a surplus. There was once a calculation made by the Swedish Government, of which we were part at the time and in which we had to make some compromise, of the numbers we are talking about. Otherwise, there was no agreement with the only French-speaking party that was part of the government at the time. Minister Vandenbroucke will refer to the Federal Planning Committee twenty times in a moment. He also insists that it is not politically directed, although that is the case in many cases. I can confirm that with this one. That Planning Committee came to the conclusion that we are talking about too many 1,500 doctors in French-speaking Belgium. In reality, there is a lot more, but imagine that figure could be right. Flemish colleagues, the following is not insignificant. Just remember all the details, because it's really important. In the agreement reached in the Swedish Government, there was also a condition, namely that there should be an entrance examination. Another thing that Minister Vandenbroucke is very keen to announce is that he is the first to have ever received such a promise, although the promise has been quite frequent during that twenty-year period. In 2016, she even became concrete. I would like to admit it, if the Minister admits it immediately, but I was still a little naive at the time, even though I didn't feel the promise to be made. I thought the agreement was so good that it would be done on the French-speaking side. They were writing a text. The Minister will immediately say that another text is being written. First reading, second reading. It will be a customized text from the Council of State which will be guaranteed to refer it to the trash bin with 100 % of security. That's what they did at the time. For example, they bought another two years. After that, we left the government for other reasons, and we were mainly faced with Minister De Block, who completely failed to implement all the principles of the agreement year after year. So much for history. Why is it important to maintain medical quotas? One of the reasons is the quality of the training. I hope that I do not have to explain too much, that is just logical: the more students, the less internship and practical experience for everyone during the studies. If one does not learn one profession from a book, then doctor and dentist, for which the same story counts. It is certainly so important that too many doctors, which were seen throughout the country at the end of the 1990s, but now only in French-speaking Belgium and even more than in the 1990s, can lead to excessive social security costs. This is all the more true in the case of a distortion between the various specializations which have to be regulated by subquotas at the Community level, in which the French Community is, moreover, completely inadequate. What has happened in French-speaking Belgium? There's a shortage of general practitioners. That is what my French-speaking colleague will immediately cite as a great reason to say here with pathos how fantastic it is that the response mechanism disappears. There is indeed a shortage of general practitioners, as in Flanders. The density in terms of general practitioners is almost the same for French-speaking Belgium and Flanders, around 10. That is strange, because we have worked with quotas for 25 years and the French speakers have not, but we have the same numbers. For those who think that we will solve the problem of the abolition of federal quotas, I will explain it again, because I do not have the impression that everyone understands. We want the abolition of federal quotas, because otherwise, as one argues, there will be a shortage of general practitioners. Imagine we're doing an experiment with an A-group, who gets a placebo, and a B-group, who gets a drug. The French people get the placebo. They're not getting anything. The Flemish Community respects the quota and entry exams. In the experiment one looks at the effect on the number of general practitioners for the two groups. If one gets an equal outcome, the answer is nothing. This will enable us to close the discussion. What is going on in French-speaking Belgium? There are a lot of doctors there, too many doctors, so that when a medical problem occurs, people skip the general practitioner and go to the hospital more quickly, because there are five specialists waiting for them who all want a patient at last. This is much more expensive for social security, which is paid federally and therefore mainly sponsored by Flemings. These specialists are also inclined, because of too many specialists and a shortage of work and remuneration, to do more research and intervention than necessary, which is again borne by social security. You may find that argument silly, but that is the same reasoning that was used in the 1990s, because there was no quota at the time. We're 25 years later now. There is still no quota in French-speaking Belgium. It has only gotten further out of hand there, as with a lot of problems in this country. There are also overwhelmed general practitioners who are no longer able to cope with the influx, which makes the profession of general practitioner no longer attractive. We are therefore still faced with a vicious circle which the French Community should have dealt with with with subquotas for a long time, but it does not. Another important point in this discussion is that in several studies and also in figures in the health barometers it can be seen that the average Flemish is healthier than our French-speaking fellow man. The average Fleming also has a higher life expectancy than the average French-speaking Belgian. On the other hand, despite these things, the average Fleming is much cheaper for social security. Maybe it's annoying to hear, but what I said is based on numbers and annual reports from the health barometer. I'm not making this up. For me, these data do prove that Flemish health policy and the loyal respect of doctors' quotas have borne fruit and that more doctors do not necessarily lead to better health care. The latter is the essence of the whole debate. For the sake of clarity and as I have said before, we have no problem with a different vision of how to deal with health care. If we want to continue building transfers on the French-speaking side, especially to specialists, and underinvestment in general practitioners, then we must do so, not a problem. If one prefers to walk directly to the emergency service on the French-speaking side, instead of, as in Flanders, organising a kind of staircase system through the first-line zone, which works much better, then so be it. However, it is time that people paid for these choices themselves and took responsibility for themselves. In other words, both Communities must be able to take matters into their own hands. Anyway, we're not there yet. I'm just gonna go back to today. The Minister is speaking today of a historic agreement. Historical! A promise has been made about an entrance examination, which must take place one year before the elections. If that promise is fulfilled, then it is already historic. However, that promise has been made many times, and that is actually the historic thing about it. What is crooked cannot be judged. However, you are good at that, Minister. In a moment, you will be magical with figures that have to show above all something else, and you will also mention the Federal Planning Commission twenty-three more times. What is crooked, however, cannot be justified. At the end of the ride, reality stays equally crooked. By simply institutionalizing a distortion of the number of doctors, which could have been solved for years, you do not solve the problem with this agreement. On the contrary, you give up. That is the summary of your so-called historic agreement. You're running the white flag ahead of a promise that hasn't been honored for 25 years. In return, you have admitted more than what was initially on the table. In fact, you are making sure that this distortion will only worsen in the future. You institutionalize the fact that not every Belgian is equivalent, because a French-speaking Belgian apparently needs more doctors than a Flemish Belgian. You support this with the simple explanation that in French-speaking Belgium people would work less. It's funny, because when the federal planning committee introduced that parameter, I also said it was necessary because there was less work there. Mrs. Onkelinx started calling me names. How dare I say they work less? Today, Minister Vandenbroucke himself says that the doctors work less there and that is why more is needed. Now everyone seems to be okay with that, but I wasn't allowed to say that at the time. Facts may not be mentioned in advance in this boîte, unless one belongs to the party that has just made all concessions. You may hide behind the federal planning committee, but the facts are what they are. I'll give you the numbers because they're not insignificant. In terms of general practitioners, density is more or less the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u92	Mrs Van Peel, I was thinking first of all not to interrupt you and only to listen to you. However, with all due respect I have for you, you push the plug so far that I have to react. Five doctors who wait for the patient to jump on him as soon as he enters the hospital; Francophones who work less - we almost hear "do nothing" -; doctors who operate more than necessary only to earn money...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u93	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u94	I translate: our doctors do nothing, they jump on patients to do more than is necessary, so their medical practice would not be ethical. I could tell you a lot of things. Actually, doctors aren't paid on time, as you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u95	They're paid by...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u96	No, they're not paid on time. In practice, excuse me again, but what do you care if Francophones spend more time with their patients or see them less! You can laugh, but that's the reality. Is it a matter of practicing medicine by saying: "Let's see as much as possible per hour! So we will be paid more" or do we instead decide to opt for an approach to medicine such that a first consultation in nephrology takes an hour? Yes, yes, you can smile. Go ask the nephrologists! I don't know what they're doing on the Dutch-speaking side. On the limit, it doesn't matter. Yes, we spend an hour with a patient, because they are new and complex diseases that require us to take time to inform the patient. It takes time to explain to him diagnoses that are difficult, diagnoses that are heavy, with many pathologies that are actually complex, and with difficult treatments. I know a lot of nephrologous confreres who practice in the north of the country and who can also - the rules are different, each apply their method - spend a lot of time with the patients. What I mean is that caricature this or that doctor, whether in the north, south of the country or in the Brussels Region, because so-called he would do anything to see the maximum number of patients, when he is not paid at all on time, as you know, know that I'm not interested. Doing good medicine also means humanizing care. And this humanization of care, it takes time with patients, because it is not just a question of making a diagnosis, prescribing a treatment and then basta! I hope that this humanization of care, which is essential for both patients and public health, can be recognized. I also very clearly hope that young and younger doctors, whether from the north, south of the country or from Brussels, will be given the choice, I do not care, to do less hours a week, not to stay in the mould of 80 hours a week. But that doesn't mean they're 25 hours a week and spend the rest of the time under the duvet! Indeed, they still have particularly heavy schedules, but they also decide to make a choice, to be able to reconcile their job - including guards, nights and weekends - with a heavy investment, to make this choice and to want to respect this choice. So, it's true, we know the numbers. Francophone physicians certainly earn less. I'm talking about medical specialists here, aren't I? Francophone physicians have less money at the end of the month than Dutch-speaking physicians. For each specialization, the figures are known. Are we complaining about it? No! On the other hand, we want quality medicine, with doctors who continue to train, who take the time to announce difficult diagnoses and explain treatments. It's a vision of humanization of care. But the real debate is not there. Does or does not address health needs? Can we follow a medical approach in which we don't want 80 hours a week and we don't want to see patients in the chain? This must be acceptable and audible. I have many Dutch-speaking colleagues who made life choices that are no longer the same as 50, 40 or 10 years ago. These choices are also eminently respectable! It seems important to me for patients, for doctors and to meet health needs to respect this without getting into the caricature. It doesn't hold the road!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u97	Mrs Van Peel, I would also like to respond to your reasoning. Mrs. Fonck mentioned the specialists, but I want to talk about the general practitioners. You have set up a reasoning about the general practitioner's shortage. There is indeed a shortage of general practitioners, both in the north and in the south of the country. You say this won't fix it. There is even a greater shortage of general practitioners in Flanders than in Wallonia. In Wallonia this is the case in one municipality on 2, in Flanders in 3 out of 4, but we can talk about it later whether it is true or not. If one is a scientist, one wants to investigate where the cause of the general practitioner's shortage lies, and then there is something I never hear about N-VA. I think that we should also look for the cause of the general practitioner shortage in performance medicine and in the undervalue of the general practitioner profession, both in the north and in the south of the country. That is what we need to do and perhaps we need to think about changing that, even if we want to do something about overconsumption, both in the south and in the north of the country. It is not because of performance medicine that there is overconsumption in Antwerp or Limburg. I think this is a serious problem there too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u98	Madam President, I had to intervene because my ears whistled more than once. We knew the love of the N-VA for clichés without any foundation, but there, frankly, the cup was largely full. I couldn't let that pass. Mrs Van Peel, your succession of clichés is truly incomprehensible. Of course, we know what the final goal of your party's statutes is. You tell us that Francophones have never done anything to meet the INAMI quotas, even though they have never shown how they can respond to the shortage of doctors or to the improvement of medical studies, since that is ultimately the objective pursued by the INAMI quotas, but also by this agreement, which you are also criticising. I would still like to point out that there was an entry examination until today in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. To say that nothing has ever been done is wrong. Moreover, this entry examination was also in force in Flanders until a few years ago. Only then could the entrance examination be instituted in Flanders. Another cliché: you tell us that the Walloons lack professionalism because they have repeatedly failed to comply with the INAMI quotas. They had to admit supernumerary students to medical studies. I want to say: still happy. Because if this had not been the case, as we have seen, the human impact of this health crisis would have been far worse than it was. You have not answered my question in committee and I would remind you of it. I know it bothers you, but when Minister Weyts derogated from the INAMI quotas when he admitted twice as many students as allowed to go to medical school, did he also lack professionalism as did the Walloons? I would really like you to answer that question. I know she's bothering you, but that's no reason not to answer. You also tell us that, in fact, health care would cost more in Wallonia and that, therefore, it is the Flemish who have to pay for the Walloons. This is the principle of social security. If you have a problem of principle with social security, we need to be told right away and we need to have a debate on it. This debate does not deal with social security, but with the means to improve the quality of care and allow everyone to have access to a doctor on time, which is not the case today, neither in Wallonia nor in Brussels nor in Flanders. Health problems could be accounted for according to the Region, the province. I could tell you that in Flanders the ageing of the population is much more important than in Wallonia. However, I am not going to say that health care and social security must be broken down, even more than we have already done. There is also this other cliché, which is to say that patients would go too far to the doctor, that there would be too many procedures. I'll take your words back. You've been talking about surgery, implying surgery, unless you're talking about something else. This is so huge that you have to support it with numbers. Mrs Van Peel, can you support the fact that today, particularly in Wallonia, patients would go to the doctor too often, and in doing so would cost social security too much? As far as I am concerned, I note that the deadline for obtaining a doctor's appointment is very long, which has consequences for the finances of the state, and therefore for the portfolio of Brusselsians, Walloons and Flemishs. Why? Because by delaying care, delaying testing, you end up with ever heavier and more expensive treatments. This is the reality of our health care today!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u99	Mrs van Peel, I am disappointed by your statements. You say we should look at the health barometer. French speakers appear to be unhealthy, despite the fact that there is a medical overconsumption and that there are more doctors present. You should know that there are always different realities behind such figures. Those are averages. These averages can be covered by very different figures depending on the target groups or the level of education. Such a statement on the French-speaking Community is very brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u100	You're also giving a ruling on the planning committee. I don't know these people. You obviously know them or have already come into contact with them. They will of course be of different opinions, but such a committee is most likely to be pluralistic. At least I assume that they have a common goal in mind, namely to promote public health. So that's a crass pronunciation, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u101	The non-limitation of entry and exit of the number of doctors leads to a surplus and over-consumption. I recommend some scientific studies that were already carried out in the '90s. That's absolutely true. That is absolutely also the reason why federal intervention was taken at the time. Don't understand that this reasoning in the part of the country that has never been intervened before has been derailed for 25 years and that in Flanders, where intervention has taken place, this has led to better, quality and affordable health care, is intellectual incompetence. Maybe you should just take it for granted. All the other numbers I'm saying, I'm not making them up. They work less hours. However, I have never talked about surgery. By the way, I recommend to those who love Belgium so much to learn some Dutch because the translation doesn't always work very well. I've never talked about any more interventions! I'm being accused here of saying that French-speaking surgeons would do more surgery, but I've never said that. Do you know what else they do? They take more scans and allow day hospitalizations to extend to longer periods. These are all things that can simply be found in figures. 80% more people go to the emergency room. These are all things that are much more expensive for health care. You can do all that, but pay for it yourself. If we say no to a federal law that we voted for ourselves for 25 years, then the cost of health care goes further out of control and then it finds it strange that the other side of the language border, which has been good for 25 years, is a little angry and wants to make it clear how much it costs and what it really is about... What kind of country are we still living in? That is not a country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u102	Since we're talking about numbers, let's talk about numbers! You took an example. I'll take another one. You took the example of scanners. Do we have too many scanners in Belgium? Are there more scanners on the francophone side of the population than on the Dutch-speaking side? The answer is yes. That's right. Do we have to do everything to make shifts to ultrasound, a fortiori in women, in any case in young people and to MRI, which is much better for a whole series of indications? The answer is still yes, in the North to the South and elsewhere at European level. Is this a reason to caricature things by saying, "Look, you are evil on everything! Look what you're doing!"? I'll give you a second example. I'm not saying it'll be random, but this example goes in the other direction. Examine the consumption of Rilatin - everyone here knows what it is - in Belgium. I can give you other examples. The consumption of Rilatin in Belgium is much higher, again in relation to the population, in the North than in the South. Do a number of questions therefore arise in relation to this, not so much because one compares one another but because studies have been carried out on the consumption of Rilatin? Yes, a number of questions arise. Is that why I come to caricature you because there is more consumption of Rilatin in the North than in the South? Not at all! It has no interest. Do you know what I'm interested in? It would be to give a number of guidelines, while making a minimum of trust to doctors and prescribers. These guidelines would focus on quality, based on the studies carried out. It would also be to set goals to be achieved, all to be achieved where one is, because the reality within one Region can sometimes be very different from one hospital to another, from one medical practice to another, including within the same territory. If you say that tomorrow, it justifies regionalizing health care, okay, we're gonna regionalize health care, but what's going to happen the day after tomorrow? Within the same Region, you will see significant differences between provinces and sometimes within a province. You will see important differences between boroughs, even between hospitals or doctors. And what are you going to do? Will you regionalize even more to return health care to the provincial level and then what? We will have a solidarity that will be achieved by neighbourhood, by street, by borough, by province because there will be differences between each other? Rather, let us give guidelines of quality and of objectives to be achieved, regardless of the territory, for, in essence, these guidelines, it is on the basis of evidence-based that they must be defined and not in fact on the basis of a logic, either of language of expression or of territory. It has no interest. The quality of care depends on anything other than a division according to territory or language.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u103	I always find it quite remarkable that a simple description of facts evokes so much, because I had not actually started my speech. That is even funnier when it comes to a counter-argument that we are doing something else.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u104	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u105	That's actually the point, yeah. If we could manage each one for ourselves, perhaps we would both be better off. A small detail, Rilatine is about the only thing one can find that is harder to get with us in Flanders. It won't be repaid, though. I don't think that's a coincidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u106	[[...]] [TN023Vallery Van Peel(N-VA)/ ]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u107	It's okay, I get it. I was just listing: 80 % more emergency consultations, 20 % less day hospitalizations, 32 % more consultation consultations are not the same as surgical interventions - and 31 % more medical expenses. Those are the numbers. What's the solution? What's the debate about? We are discussing the historic solution of Minister Vandenbroucke! He knows this file very well. He has been a Flemish Minister of Education. He made some very heavy statements at the time. That was 15 years ago. At that time, Minister Vandenbroucke, as Minister of Education, was talking about an enormous imbalance in the number of doctors between Flanders and Wallonia. He said that this crooked growth shouldn't be allowed to get out. He said it couldn't be done. And now he writes it in the law. He understands the principle. He's behind it, too. He always defends the quota with a lot of passion and fire, and with the right arguments, by the way. But then the fog comes, then the concession comes. The tough language that was spoken at some point in the committee, of course, had to do with...After 25 years it was time. I will admit that is what our agreement in the Swedish Government was really missing. We trusted Minister De Block. That was a mistake. Minister Vandenbroucke then worked out a response mechanism. He did. I thought that was handsome. It was tough language because there wasn't much time left. It actually came down to the following. If there was still no entrance exam after 25 years, the administration would still respect the number of RIZIV numbers. That was pretty good, actually. It was, by the way, an effect of the coalition agreement. It was one of the two things that CD&V had gotten in that gigantic vague coalition chord. I thought that was fantastic back then, too. I didn't believe it then either, but that was something CD&V got in it and then pushed forward with a lot of bombs. I thought something was working out, fantastic. Today it is before it is not worked out, because there is an agreement, so a promise that in the year before the elections there will be a numerus fixus, so an entrance exam, fantastic. Gifts? What do the French speakers get in place for that? The past is forgotten and it is pretended that there are not thousands of doctors-specialists too much on the French-speaking side. It costs everyone a lot of money, but people pretend that there isn't. In addition, quotas are being developed that build this further, because the French speakers need more doctors because they work less. The French speakers are angry, but that is what the Planning Committee says, and that is what the Minister even says a few times on the committee. That's the reasoning, that's what's in store. As step 1 in that historic chord, we are throwing overboard the response mechanism. That is funny, because a response mechanism has the assurance that if a promise is kept and there is a response ability, it will not enter into force. Why do you have to get rid of that thing when you believe and support it all so hard? I still haven't gotten an explanation. I tabled an amendment because I can imagine that CD&V had other things on its mind today. I don't even like to say it, because it's a little too much of the good. Maybe it was an accident, that concession. I have tabled an amendment to re-introduce the response mechanism. I hope that our Flemish colleagues will finally understand how this country works, that is, if it is a dossier in which Flanders becomes ***, everyone on the other side of the language border will be on the same footing. Apparently, we're never gonna make it. That's the problem of a lot in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u108	Madam President, the advantage of having been brief in committee is that I am not going to have to repeat myself. However, I would like to propose my opinion, a slight rupture of tone. Indeed, it is a historic agreement, for it has been 25 years since this issue created community tensions and, above all, has turned us away from the real problem of having an offer of care that corresponds to the real needs of the population. From the point of view of environmentalists, this agreement is both a relief and proof that we are still able to agree in this country on common objectives and which serve, in the first place, the general interest. The current and two-year health crisis has amplified and continues to pose many challenges to our health care system. A recent survey reveals that 80 per cent of health organizations are in critical shortage of staff: lack of vocation, abandonment due to physical and psychological pressure. New restrictions on access to curative medicine in this context would be unjustifiable or even dramatic in terms of public health, but also unbearable for students who have just begun their studies. It was in this situation of very serious tension in the care sector that we negotiated the government agreement. The government's agreement on the pricing of the provision of care consisted of three components: objectivation of needs, planning, and accountability. I will focus first on the objectivation of needs. It will be up to the future inter-federal planning body to take account of the objective needs within each Community, first of all, in terms of the provision of care, by linking to the professions in need, the effects of the health crisis, the effective place of delivery, the evolution of the balance between private and professional life, because there are more and more women in the profession. The inter-federal body will also have to objective, on the basis of population characteristics, co-morbidities, ageing, epidemiological data, socio-economic profile. Finally, it will have to take into account the territories, the distribution of unbalanced professionals between cities and municipalities, rural municipalities, or the presence of non-resident students. For us, this needs analysis is really the key point, because today we are setting up this inter-federal body. It is true that the Planning Commission of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation has also been set up quite recently. I will not hide from you that we would first have liked to move forward on this harvest of needs before we activate the accountability mechanism. That was not the case. We can deplore this, because we have wasted time at all levels of power, when the stakes are enormous. That said, we are not going to shove the result either: 744 doctors at the end of the course – not after the competition – instead of 505, that's 139 more. It's not bargaining, it's objective analysis. For this reason, it was worth blocking a little bit and fighting to the end.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u109	Mrs Hmente, Mrs Merckx is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u110	Mrs. Hinge, I don't understand anything. You describe a situation where the needs are indeed enormous, but the agreement reached between the different governments, if it deletes the article correctly, does indeed evoke a robust and solid filter, indicating that quotas will have to be respected. How can they be determined if the needs analysis is not complete? It's very problematic. The needs analysis must take into account the aging of the population, as you say. We have heard the caricature of Mrs Van Peel. You know the situation in Wallonia, which suffers from a shortage of doctors, to such an extent that it is difficult to get an appointment. In addition, prevention is insufficient. Given the scale of the needs, I do not understand how you can say that you are satisfied with this agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u111	Mrs Hinge, it has not been easy to block this horrific Rule 69 of the government which you have validated at least twice in this Parliament and which took all the students hostage. Indeed, with this article, you decided purely and simply to throw doctors and dentists who have graduated out of the window, while we continue, in particular on the French side, to pick up doctors abroad who have a European diploma and to whom we give an INAMI number without restriction. So we managed to get you to make a turn. You say that there are important needs, that there is a shortage of doctors in some communes, in some neighbourhoods in Wallonia and Brussels, but also in Flanders, that it takes months to get an appointment with some specialists. But in 2021, 1,200 students began medical studies on the francophone side. Tomorrow they will be 744. You also say that needs analyses will be carried out. If I am not mistaken, the agreement does not provide for any revision until 2028. It's 2022. You announce the establishment of an inter-federal body, the conduct of studies, etc. The agreement does not foresee any evolution or revision for six years, even after the completion of these studies and the objectivation of needs. How can you justify that there will be no revision, whatever the reality of the field, by 2028? This seems particularly appealing to me in view of the speech you are holding here, today, and in the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u112	Mrs Fonck, 744 doctors, it's obviously at the end of the journey. We run a contest and there will be a loss to reach 744. This works in Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u113	The contest determines the numberrus fixedus and the authorities determine the number of the contest...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u114	...which will have to arrive at the end of the journey, calculating a loss. You can imagine that the 744 people who will pass the contest are not so strong that they will do everything for six years and succeed!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u115	How many students will be able to register in 2023? What will be the numberrus fixus that will be applied to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u116	A loss is calculated to arrive at 744. I don't have the formula in mind. They are very aware of this in universities. It's not true that we're going to start with 744 people at the end of the competition. It will be at the end of the journey! Mrs Fonck, how do they work in Flanders? They set a number, but it is not yet calculated. To return to planning, the planning commission at the federal level is working well. She is already able to provide needs analyses. She's not well-recognized enough and it would be a bit of a job to say she's not doing anything. The number of 744 doesn't come out of anything. The Commission at the level of the Federation will be there to refine the needs. It will be necessary to go much further thereafter, but at this stage the 744 are already an objectivation. It is already 139 more than the starting quota, which is not negligible. I now continue my reasoning that I had not finished. With regard to the objective of needs, I would like to reiterate the role of the Regions, which in fact also have a role to play in identifying the health needs of the population and the shortages of general practitioners mainly in their territory. Because the Regions manage important health skills, they are at the forefront of the challenges faced by hospitals, by the front line of the health crisis. They also paid a significant cost. Their analysis and collection of public health data will therefore also be crucial if we are to stick to needs as closely as possible. If I am so insistent on the determination of needs, it is because it is because of this objectivation that we were able to get out of this 60-40 distribution carcan which was completely arbitrary. We really need to stress that. In order for the resulting planning today to be truly reasonable and relevant, it is obviously not necessary to be content with the experts who make projections between them. No! Health is a real concern at all levels that must be listened to and needs raised from the field. In this context, it is essential that quotas be strictly respected. This accountability, because it is accountability, is also an issue with the north of the country. This was committed in the government agreement and the competition is an accountability. At this point, I think that we need to have confidence in our forums in order to achieve this. I come back to that, with this agreement with the federation and the federal government, these three issues have been dealt with for the first time in 25 years in a structural way, since the system allows for both quality education, good supervision of internships, the absence of uncertainty for any student and the fight against shortages of general practitioners. Above all, this reform allows for a revision of the distribution key. It is therefore a major step forward for us, as we are finally moving towards a focus on health needs. Unfortunately, however, the shortage problem is not exclusively linked to quotas. The stakes are numerous and far exceed the quota problem. Quotas are the tree that hides the forest. We've settled today how and how much. Now we have to ask ourselves why the quotas for general practitioners are not being met. Why are medical consultants, occupational physicians who have always been out of quotas in need? In affirmative action policies, quotas are also used. The political responsibility in this context is not to go beyond them, but rather to reach them. Why are some areas medical deserts? Because it is actually observed that young people tend to choose cities rather than rural areas, to favour sociologically more favoured areas, and it is not because of quotas either. For example, the profession of general practitioner, whether preventive medicine, occupational medicine or the work of medical consultants, is not popular enough. These occupations are devalued compared to other specialties because they are increasingly bureaucratized by a range of administrative measures that lead to overloading of work and loss of meaning. Because they are unfortunately also devalued within the population itself, which considers the hospital a little too much as the real centre of competence. Because it must also be stressed that universities themselves do not sufficiently promote general medicine because they need hospital labour. So the provision of care, whether it be general practitioners, dentists, specialist doctors, does not yet guarantee an optimal organisation of care. The distribution of professionals is not sufficiently balanced within the territories; it is not sufficiently balanced between cities and rural communities and, above all, it lacks complementarities between the first line of care and specialized care in hospital facilities. The funding system is therefore largely responsible for the problem and this is why the federal government is actively working on nomenclature reform, including eliminating unreasonable income differences among physicians. The Government is also in charge of adapting the nomenclature to the new model of care provision. At the same time, we are also working on the hospital financing system. Ecologists believe that it is really important to review the quota system, which is part of a long-term and comprehensive vision, based on the promotion of primary health care. For us, these two projects are really essential to achieving this goal and they must be carried out in concert with all health actors and stakeholders as widely as possible. It is not an administrative reform but a cultural shift that will be complicated. Today, we have succeeded in a first step. It was a long time, but I think it was actually the easiest one in the face of the challenges ahead. It is the responsibility of society to ensure a sufficient number of medical and paramedical health professionals. This one really goes beyond the only doctor's profession. It also includes nurses, nurses, paramedics, psychologists, midwives, physiotherapists, childminders - and I'm on it. Strengthening the first line is essential. The covid crisis proved it to us. Health is the responsibility of all policies at all levels. If the One Health concept is probably vague enough for some, in any case, you have a good concrete example with this file. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u117	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been talking about section 69 for some time now, and so I will be talking about it for a few moments, of course. But I would like to remind you that this is a much denser bill than this section 69. So far, we have only talked about Article 69. I hope that, after that, we will develop more and come back to the other elements because there are many advances that I will also be able to mention in my speech. These are many advances for both medicine and patients, and they have not yet been mentioned. Article 69 is a lock in the quota system, the famous INAMI numbers. With my group, we talked about changing the system, that it was a real problem for medical and dentistry students and also for patients. There is a shortage of general practitioners in some areas of Wallonia and there was a need for an appropriate response to these needs. Mr Minister, you took the time to hear the Wallonia-Brussels Federation on this thorny issue and to find a solution. I would like to say thank you because you have kept your commitment to consultation and you dared to put back on the table what many would never have dared to question. In fact, we can see the emotion that this can bring to some of our colleagues. It's a historic deal for us, but it's especially so for anyone who's going to start medical school or who's already a medical student. This does not deserve the caricatural remarks that some have made in committee, and still in plenary today. Mrs Van Peel, you come to the Health Committee only when it comes to Community matters. I never see you on other health issues. You have only intervened on this issue. Do not make us think that your question concerns the medical or economic interest, it is a Community question! This is your position and you have the right to have it. Where are we here? We're in the room of what? From Belgium, not the chamber of Flanders or Flanders. When I'm here, Mrs Van Peel, even if I'm elected by Walloons, I feel like I'm working for all Belgians – whether they're in the north, south or east. Excuse me, Mrs Van Peel, that is my interest. You're defending another conception? Well, that's your choice. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u118	Mr Rigot, I have a very short question. We are indeed here in the Chamber of Representatives. You are a member of the majority and have approved a government agreement. The government agreement contains a very interesting passage on the area of health care, in particular that the government will take steps to draw up texts and proposals to split it up. Don't you agree with that passage in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u119	Mr Rigot, that is a very good question from Mr Loones. First of all, you have little to say about the distribution of files in our group. This is a dossier that I have been following up for ten years, with a great deal of reluctance, by the way. So I will continue to follow that up. Furthermore, I am no longer on the Committee on Health. I'm on the Social Affairs Committee, where I never see you. That is not important, however. You ask me if this is a Community file. Yes! Why is it a Community file? Because you, the French Community, have been refusing to implement a federal law for 25 years. That is why it is a Community file. Oh, come on. I'm even saying it with a lot of conviction. This is Belgium at its best. Federally, Flanders does it, Wallonia says foert and we pay. That is a Community file, yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u120	At least Mrs Van Peel, we are clear, both of us. I understand your position. I can hear it. It's not mine. You have a community debate. Okay, that's good. Mr Loones, what I see in the government agreement is a commitment to raise the fiasco that has been caused by years of disinvestment in health care, at all levels, in the North and in the South. That is what I see in the government agreement! That is what we defend in the majority: it is to raise health care, to provide resources. You're making a passage, a line. I see the whole thing. We're picking up the fiasco you caused when you were in the majority. That's what I see!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u121	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u122	Am I a minister? The government will implement the government agreement. I'm telling you, Mr. Loones, that the government will execute the agreement. I hope he executes the deal. What I'm telling you is that I'm a parliamentarian. As a parliamentarian, I do the work of a parliamentarian. The government, as a government, will do the work of government, Mr. Loones. We will see our record, which will be something else, in health care, than what you did in the previous government. I'm going on. Where was I, Mr. Loones? Tell me. I don't know anymore. Tell me where I was. I'm lost. Help me! We can still help each other. I was saying: a historic agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u123	I'll remind you where you were. I wonder to what extent do you mean when you say: 'Je suis parliamentarye pour tous les Belges'? I'll take you to my living room. There happens to be some medical students there. One of my sons is in the situation of thousands of young Flemings. He really wanted to be a doctor, and he has the skills to be a doctor. He took the entrance exam five times. He's prepared himself five times full of hope. Eventually, he got through the entrance exam. That boy's in fourth grade medicine now. He sees his friends graduating. They start a career as a general practitioner or specialist, but he waits. Have you also been his parliamentarians?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u124	Mrs Depoorter, I am a Member of Parliament today. This is my first legislature. Are you going to hold me responsible for a decision made twenty-five years ago? I don't think so. Anyway, I'm fundamentally opposed to the entrance exams. What we regret in this historic victory is that these entrance exams are maintained, which do not allow students to choose and invest in what is a vocation, Mrs Depoorter. I regret it! It is a pity that motivated students are forced to choose from the entrance and that young people who want to invest are penalized. It's my position, but it's not yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u125	Your party has been responsible for the non-implementation of that federally approved law for 25 years. You may not have been a Member of Parliament, but your party has caused it. You weren't a parliamentarians for those young Flemings. You weren't there then, and you're not here today. You just said it: c'ést un accord historique pour nous, for you, for the French speakers. That's what you said.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u126	I would like to make it clear, Mrs Depoorter, that this is a historic agreement for all the students who are going to start their studies today, who are in their studies or who are going out of their studies. Because they know they can exercise what they believe in. This is a historic agreement, Mrs Depoorter! So yes, unfortunately, they will still have to take an entrance exam, which I regret. But this is obviously not the scenario I preferred.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u127	Mr. Rigot, you're getting some reactions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u128	I've been waiting all night, I'm available.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u129	Mrs Rohonyi and Mrs Merckx wish to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u130	Excuse me, Mr. Rigot, I'll have to wait longer than you. I am in solidarity with you in your expectation, and far from me the idea of interrupting you, but I still had to bounce back on something you said. You say it's a historic deal because it gives a guarantee, a security to students. This will be verified, because your government agreement, as well as the agreement between the federal authority and the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, makes it clear that if quotas were not to be respected, the accountability mechanism would apply. And it risks being applied if, later on, we realize, through the work to be carried out by the inter-federal planning body, that these quotas are actually insufficient. Therefore, as far as the security that would be granted to students is concerned, I have more than doubts. In addition, the other point I had to ask you about is your statement that your party is fundamentally opposed to the medical examination because you find it unfair. But in reality, the historic agreement as you put it does not even set up an entrance examination but an entrance examination, in other words something that is even more unfair at the end of the day! Do you consider this agreement to be historic?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u131	Like Mrs Rohonyi, I would like to express my astonishment. You're saying you're against the entrance exam. Do you realize that the historic agreement is the maintenance of this exam that is transformed into a competition? Like Ms. Depoorter's son, many students will not be able to start medical studies unless they are ranked first, even if they pass the entrance exam. Education will therefore become more difficult to access because not all parents have the opportunity to wait five years for their child to pass the exam. Who will pay? These are the students belonging to the popular strata. You say you're against the entrance exam, but you're still going to vote on the bill. I don't understand!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u132	Madam President, I agree with Mrs Merckx's question. Mr Rigot, you are actually very strong against an entrance exam, I understand that correctly. You have said that a few times. Will you then introduce this into the French Community just before the elections? Your party is still part of the government. Would you like to answer the question whether your party, no matter how hard you oppose, will introduce the entrance exam with your party just before the election? That is what Minister Vandenbroucke believes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u133	Me too, Mrs. Van Peel. I'll answer your question first. I will see with my party president what we intend to introduce or not. I think here I'm a Member of Parliament and I'm speaking at the federal level, Mrs. Van Peel. If you have the omniscience and already the position of your party for the rest of the adventure, whatever it may be, we will discuss it again at that time. But today, I have to tell you that I don't have a position on what we're going to do or not. Let me tell you, however, that here I cannot make commitments on what will be done or not, Mrs Van Peel. You know as I do: in order to be able to carry out the policy that we want alone, the policy that we absolutely want to carry out to the last iota, in a system, whether in the federal or in the federated entities, what is required, Mrs Van Peel? An absolute majority. There, I can tell you what we will do when we have an absolute majority. But we don't have it. As far as the other points are concerned, of course, Mrs Rohonyi, I agree with you. It's not the panacea or the ideal, Mrs. Merckx. We took a step forward. I told you about another text a few days ago. I told you: there is the theory of the status quo and the theory of step by step progress. Here, don't you mind, it's a step forward. Because we are going to have more doctors, because we are stabilizing the situation of students who are entering a course or who are in the course of a course and who are going out of it. As it stands, this is not a final goal and we have not solved all the problems of medicine, all the problems of the students, and all the problems of the patients. But it must be recognized that between where we were, a few hours ago, and where we will be in a few hours when we pass this bill - I hope not too late! - the situation will be different for students and patients. Of course, we will still have to reflect on the future of medicine, on the future of the curriculum. And that's what's planned. We do not say otherwise. You mentioned it. The figures are not frozen either way. It's a reality. It may also be a good thing that they are not and that they can be reconsidered in the light of evolution. Why not? If it were necessary to change more in the future. But in any case, until 2028, we offer ourselves security. It's a step. We have done rule 69 and I will now move on to the other articles, if I may.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u134	Mr Rigot, I warn you that in ten minutes we will have to take a 15-minute break for reasons of computer technology. Don't be surprised when I stop you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u135	I'm on my way, Madam President! Colleagues, is there only Rule 69? But no, as I was telling you, it's not just section 69. There are many other measures in this project. Of course, not all of these measures are in place right now. Implementation orders will be required in the future, but there is an important framework and progress. We're opening the frame. But, minister, we'll have to talk. As you know, it's our creed. There is no question of moving forward without consulting patient associations, hospitals, healthcare providers, but also insurers. It's fundamental. You're committed to the concertation. We will therefore be attentive, as we have been to the consultation that you have conducted in advance on the amendment of Article 69. I won't go around all the plans. We have done so in committee, and I have no doubt that others will do so after me, other colleagues who are far more sophisticated in the medical field than I can be. Ladies Depoorter and Fonck, it's your experience and your expertise. It is your vocation, too, beyond your political vocation. I have no doubt, therefore, that you will have much more comments on the matter than I do. However, here are some measures. These are important measures. We were talking about economy at the medical level. The economy is certainly also the economy for the patient and access to health care. The measures which will allow for greater financial accessibility include the abolition of the ban on paying third parties. This is an important step that will have to lead to more widespread application of the fee-paying third party to patients, such as certain dentistry or orthodontic services with high costs. We need to be able to do this in the future, too. Patients are given the opportunity to receive treatment with an innovative therapy drug. It is known that it is not always easy to have access to medicines that save lives because they are not necessarily reimbursed or available in Belgium. They will be able to access these innovative therapies in another EU Member State, given the specialized nature of these treatments. There are also positive measures in terms of increasing the transparency of health care costs, including the costs of hospital fees. We will have to communicate - it is also a nice change - the distribution and the destination of the fee supplements. Everyone needs to know what they're paying and why they're going to pay for it, whether they're in hospital or outpatient. We support this goal, but it will have to be achieved in good agreement, in consultation with hospitals. We also insist on its practicality. Several other measures concern hospitals. First, sanctions will be imposed for non-compliance with the supplement scheme. It is important for patients to be assured that both the price of the room and the treatment charged to them are correct and that the hospital does not claim unjustified amounts at any time. Next, a hospital audit will be put in place to improve the quality and efficiency of health care and ensure the optimal use of available resources. It is also essential: we must not waste; we must not invest in health care. In addition, steps are being taken to improve hospital use of cheaper products and medicines, including biosimilar products. We know that Belgium seems completely isolated in this area. Earlier, I heard someone telling me in the corridor that biosimilars were the white drugs. No, I don't! Their quality is the same as that of other medicines, but their price is lower. Finally, to whom are all these measures taken? And that is what must bring us together today in our decision. For article 69, it is certainly the students. As regards the measures as a whole, the beneficiaries will be the patients. Hospitals should be consulted on the implementation of these provisions. Nor can we forget the difficult financial situation in which hospitals were in before the covid crisis, but which has not changed positively since then. A vision for the future and stable multi-year funding: that is what they expect. The reform of hospital funding, presented a few weeks ago, will have to be thought for them and with them. It should also be stressed that patient representatives have an important place in the measures presented: the creation of a patient forum or the increase in the financial support granted to the RaDiOrg patient association for rare diseases. In conclusion, while we have just approved in the Committee on Public Health a proposal which is an essential first step in removing the criterion of exclusion of blood donation that still affects homosexuals and bisexuals today, this text takes the necessary steps to comply with the Constitutional Court's judgment of 29 September 2019 by reducing the exclusion criteria for HSH, as part of the donation of fresh frozen plasma collected by apheresis. It is a request that we have been making for a long time. That will be a good thing if this bill is approved. I will say no more, given the long discussions that we have already had, in particular with the Minister and Mrs Van Peel. As was the case in committee, we will, of course, support this important bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip179x.u136	Madam President, it is not 8.30 p.m., so I have two minutes left. I'd like to give a brief reply to colleague Rigot. You said again, Mr Rigot, that Article 69 seront les étudiants les bénéficiaires, but you did not complete it to les étudiants francophones. That is a factual correction. However, you have also said that the transparency of the invoice is a positive fact for the patient. That is what we said in committee, but I would like to point out something which the Socialist groups very often advocated, before they were in the government, which also applies to the Minister's party, particularly transparency in the pricing and reimbursement of medicines. This is a dossier of more than 1,000 pages. There is a lot of talk about transparency, but not about such an important issue, namely how the prices of medicines are determined and how they are reimbursed. I would like to remind you of that, ladies and gentlemen. Before you were in the government, a motion for a resolution was signed and there was a legislative proposal to ensure that Article 81 and Article 111 medicines were dealt with and that there would be a more transparent policy, but as soon as the Socialists came to the wheel, I did not notice any more. I would like to do a second factual correction. On the one hand, you say that you are going for innovation and that you will support RaDiOrg, the patient association for patients with orphan disease, with EUR 25,000, but on the other hand you have not taken any steps to make it easier for those patients with orphan disease to access orphan medicines. The WAIT Indicator still indicates that our country is hindering access to innovative medicines for its patients. For example, they have to wait more than 400 days longer than in Germany. That's a working point. So it's not all glory. You got the response mechanism out of the text, but you didn't want to put very important things into it for the patients. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 12 May 2022 at 8.45 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, May 12, 2022 at 8:45 p.m.
