ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u1	Madam President, Minister, to our surprise we have found that you have a responsible President. We met him recently. We found that interesting, because he tells interesting things. At some point it was about nuclear power and he said on Twitter that it would be good to organise a referendum on whether or not to preserve nuclear power plants. I thought that was a coincidence, because you yourself are engaged in a popular consultation called the online dialogue platform. Maybe you discussed that at the party bureau with your chairman. Is that the case, Minister? Do you intend to proceed with this? Will you raise the question of whether nuclear power plants should remain a federal competence and whether they should remain open in the online dialogue platform, or will you suggest that the Länder should be able to work actively on this and that they should be able to organise their energy policy entirely themselves and decide for themselves whether to keep the nuclear power plants open? That seems to me to be an interesting question, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u2	Madam President, I would have liked to have heard from the ministers when we can take note of the questions that will be put to the public in the framework of the dialogue platform. Will there also be questions about the core exit, as a government party has proposed to question the population about this? The dialogue platform could then be a means to this end. When will the online search start? Are we going to stick to the proposed six-week period? What means of communication will precede that? And from when to when does that communication campaign run? When can we expect the finalisation of the reporting? What will the government actually do with the questioning?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u3	Madam President, Mr Loones, the objective of the institutional dialogue platform, as stated in the general policy paper, is to launch a participatory project on modernising, increasing efficiency and deepening the democratic principles of state structures through the establishment of an online platform. We have already discussed this platform in committee in December, January and February, in addition to the issues of the state structure that will be addressed. I can confirm that the consortium, the scientific committee and the structural committee are currently discussing the exact content of the platform. It has always been said that the issues of institutional reform and democratic innovation do not relate to the content of a policy. The decision on whether or not to keep nuclear power stations open is an issue which falls within the policy pursued and not the way in which the country is organised. The Scientific Committee shall ensure that the questions in this area are as neutral as possible. It is, of course, possible that other questions relate to the content of a policy. There are also platforms for dialogue with citizens, whether they have existed, whether they are the Federal Plan for Sustainable Development, road safety policy or other issues that fall within the competence of each minister responsible for a matter. The participants in the platform should be able to express themselves in their contributions to the open questions as to whether they wish to see this or that competence fall within the competence of the federal government or of a sub-area, as well as the powers beyond the boundaries of a region or the powers for which decisions of the different sub-areas have an impact on another sub-area. The division of powers on energy in Belgium was examined by the Joint Committee Chamber and Senate, and both the question of nuclear energy and that of climate policy and supply were discussed. Mrs Pas, an initial version of the content of the platform, namely the contextualisation and the questions, is currently being prepared by the consortium responsible for this task. The Scientific Committee has already been able to take note of this content twice in order to make its comments and suggestions. It is an exchange and cooperation between the consortium and the scientific committee. As regards communication, as I said in a previous reply, the service provider Bridgeneers is committed to establishing a communication based on two major axes, namely broad communication via the mass media and more specific communication by calling on partners to reach out to certain target groups. The launch of the online platform is still foreseen for the last week of April. The search will take six weeks. As far as communication is concerned, I refer to the answer given to Mr Loones' question. All contributions will be dealt with during the summer and will result in the publication of a report in the autumn. The purpose of this report is to foster dialogue between political representatives. It may lead to reforms if a parliamentary majority so wishes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u4	Minister, I have to admit that a number of issues give rise to new questions. A number of questions will also be discussed later so we will see in the course of the afternoon. I would like to say a few words about the public consultation on nuclear energy and the dialogue platform. I really wonder which questions are going to be asked there. Sometimes we make a suggestion. There are a number of things in the coalition agreement, perhaps something can be asked about it. But then we get the answer that it will not happen because it is in the coalition agreement. Then we propose to put forward a number of questions on social issues, since everything is Community in this country, for example, migration. We ask, for example, whether Flanders should be able to pursue its own migration policy. We will then get the answer that no questions will be asked. The age of election is not included in the online dialogue platform either. I am beginning to wonder which questions will be included in the online dialogue platform. In any case, I understand that party chairman Georges-Louis Bouchez, who is doing a solid job of determining the debate on nuclear energy, will unfortunately miss a chance to test his story across the country. He could have looked at whether there was a basis for support for nuclear energy and whether states could assume their own responsibilities. So it is a pity, but I suspect that your chairman will find another theme to express himself passionately.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u5	The timing is too sharp for that, Mr Loones.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u6	My reaction is in line with that of my colleague. I very much wonder which questions will be asked there. It will clearly not be about nuclear power and nuclear trip. I am also surprised that when I get the answer of a Prime Minister that the arrangement for former ministers' employees is something for a search in a dialogue platform, it is suddenly no longer a subject for a consultation in a dialogue platform when an agreement is reached. I look forward very much to seeing what subjects we are going to see there at all. I'm very curious as you haven't lifted a hint of the veil until today. We will have to wait until the last week of April to see the questions appear.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u7	Madam Secretary, I tabled this question on 9 March. On that day an extensive article appeared in De Standaard that once again put the finger on the wound about our language legislation. It is being violated massively, but that is nothing new because I have been interrogating the Ministers for the Interior for years. It was good that it was made clear that it was due to the failing enforcement mechanisms. In fact, no of the offenders is urged to apply the legislation in force as a rule. In a democratic constitutional state, we find this unacceptable. It's a law of public order. Opponents often argue that language legislation would be better broken, arguing that it is outdated and no longer meets today's sociological reality. That is not a very relevant remark. There are obsolete laws and a law is not a reflection of a sociological but of a legal and political reality. As long as the law exists, it must be applied. If there is a political majority convinced that it is no longer relevant and requires an amendment, then I look forward to the legislative proposals on this matter. However, as long as that is not the case, that law will remain in force. Madam Minister, can language legislation be part of the dialogue platform? The answer to my previous question on this point I may not be able to get an answer to it. Do you have the ambition to amend that language legislation during this reign and adapt it to that sociological reality? If not, what is your position on the lack of enforcement? Are you going to take an initiative to make improvements so that the law can be applied and enforced? The Brussels authorities are now in default.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u8	Mrs Pas, my answer is - fortunately, but - in line with the answer given just now in relation to the content of the online dialogue platform. The preparatory work will be completed in the coming weeks. It is, therefore, too early to decide on the precise issues to be addressed. Among other things, the future of the Senate, electoral legislation and the smooth formation of the government are under consideration. These are all themes that have our attention. So, Mr Loones, I can reassure you. There are enough questions left that we can ask on that platform about the future of our country. Mrs Pas, I can clarify to you that I do not have the ambition to amend the administrative language legislation during this period of government. That is not provided for in the coalition agreement either. In particular, this is because an amendment to this very important legislation must not happen lightly, and certainly not if we want to safeguard the importance of Dutch. The legislation is based on a Community balance and contains numerous protection mechanisms, including for Dutch. Initiating a discussion on the amendment of that Steel Act could call this balance into question as well as the protection mechanisms. This also explains why the principles of administrative language legislation have not been changed in recent decades. As regards your question about the lack of enforcement of the administrative language law, I would first of all like to refer to the previous answers I gave in this committee on 20 January and 30 June last year. At that time, too, there was a lack of application. I replied at the time that it is clear that this is a law of public order and that it must therefore also be enforced and observed. That goes without saying. There are reasons why we have agreed to all this in such a way, and it must therefore be respected. It is true that enforcement mechanisms are not always sufficient today, especially in a number of local Brussels administrations. This is also apparent from the annual report by the Vice-President. For this reason, on 16 June last year, the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring sent an additional letter to provide the competent Brussels authorities with all the tools to strengthen enforcement. It is mainly about matters, in essence obligations of local authorities, including the presentation of dossiers and the provision of information to the vice-governor, something to which, according to the Vice-governor's annual reports, very often needs to be explicitly pointed out in order to ensure compliance with the legislation. By the same token, the municipality of Sint-Lambrechts-Woluwe brought an action for annulment before the Council of State, which is still pending. As I pointed out on 30 June 2021 in the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs, an enforceable and effective supervisory and sanctioning mechanism is an essential element for me to bear in mind if we are to change the administrative language law. However, as I said, this is not part of the coalition agreement. In any case, it is not an easy exercise to find a political majority in Parliament. I would therefore like to invite you, as a decision, if you have any ideas on this and if you see any possibility of finding the majorities needed in Parliament, to discuss this with the various groups in the hemisphere.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u9	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. I would like to quote three elements. Firstly, we have already put forward many suggestions for interesting questions that can be put on that dialogue platform. It remains to be seen whether language legislation can be part of it. Secondly, I am pleased to hear that you do not want to lighten the administrative language law. This also means, of course, that the law as it exists today must be applied. It is not for my pleasure that every year, in response to the Deputy Governor's report, I have to interview successive Ministers of the Interior with ever worse figures. The situation deteriorates every year. Of course, the well-meaning letter will not help Brussels authorities who have had the power to act today and for decades. However, they have been showing a manifest unwillingness for decades. Then it is up to you, the Minister responsible for language legislation, to ensure that those powers are removed and, for example, to make the Deputy Governor himself responsible for enforcing the application. I fear that I will have to continue to ask this question every year with even worse figures at the base. If you or your successors always refer to previous answers, as Minister Jambon did at the time, that unfortunately does not make sense and does not bring about any change in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u10	Madam Minister, I have done my best this month to ask as few questions as possible about the dialogue platform and, above all, to ask you about other issues. However, I could not pass up this question because it is very practical. We've already had some conversations about the start. Originally the ambition was to start in September last year, then it became November, December, February. Last month you said in committee that the online survey would start in April. That still seems to me to be a very ambitious timing, given your answers. Or there should be a lot of things that we shouldn't know about. Is that still the timing? I would like to take this opportunity to replicate an answer after a question that was not asked by me. You say, Madam Secretary, that there are still plenty of issues to ask: the future of the Senate, electoral law, the formation of government... as politicians, we get off on such matters, that's pure political politics. These issues show that the system is not working efficiently, but the people are not really awake. What does wake them up is the question of whether they can still pay their energy bill. This is not only a social and economic question, but also an institutional one: where is this electricity produced, who is responsible for it, how does cooperation between governments proceed? People are awake from their jobs and their unemployment benefits, and how they will be paid. Today, Brussels conducts a policy in which young people are under-guided to a job. At the same time, the federal government is paying for the billing of that policy. People are awake from the affordability of our system. Those are all institutional questions. So we can talk a lot about the future of the Senate, and there have even been very interesting hearings on this in recent weeks, but that does not touch on the essence of the system. My question was: does your party still start in April?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u11	Mr Loones, I have already given some answers to Mrs Pas, but the launch of the platform is still planned for the last week of April. There will also be a communication campaign according to the T-model, i.e. a combination of a campaign for a large audience via radio and television, with a more specific communication via the social networks, or via-via-technology for different identified target groups. The campaign runs during the six weeks of the online search.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u12	We look forward to the start, much more to the communication and certainly to the timing. Interesting in timing is that we will be able to start the new political year with an evaluation of the survey. This is also consistent with the timing in a number of other dossiers. So we are already looking forward to autumn with interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u13	Minister, I was looking for questions that were not about the dialogue platform, and then came up with the idea of re-reading the coalition agreement, which is on my night table. I like some fiction before bedtime. We have already discussed the coalition agreement in detail, including during the discussion of the policy papers, but I have noticed some passages that I had not noticed in the past and can now be seen in a different light. I read in the coalition agreement, among other things, a passage which shows that you are in charge of choosing a series of constitutional articles which will be declared subject to revision. We have already debated this, but at the end of the passage I read: 'At the end of the democratic debate, the list will be completed'. We have always understood in committee that the democratic debate will end after the dialogue platform is finished. In the meantime, we know better what the dialogue platform means, including an online survey and discussions in parliaments. The question then arises when the provisional list of constitutional articles can be completed, because the 'democratic debate will have ended'. So when do you come up with additional constitutional articles? Is that in the fall, after the analysis of the online search? Or will that be only after the experiments with new forms of civic participation which should take place in the Chamber, but which we do not notice? One can label them even more than the online search as a black box. The majority will not work on this. Or is there gonna be anything else? After all, the coalition agreement also refers to a dynamic that will be launched in the Chamber, involving the university world and society. That seems to be something other than the civilian cabins and panels in the Chamber. There are a lot of things in the coalition agreement that I initially thought were the same thing, but perhaps that is all something else, or nothing at all. In short, when do you plan to supplement the list of constitutional articles?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u14	Mr. Loones, you seem to be sleepless. You'd better sleep in your room. In any case, the federal government has begun thorough work in preparation for future state reform. The work will take place in different phases. On 30 April 2021, the Government adopted a provisional list of constitutional articles, which remains to be completed. The provisional list can only be completed after the end of the democratic debate, namely through the online platform and the deliberative committees in the Chamber, and at the latest at the end of the legislature. It is important that citizens' contributions can feed and enrich the political dialogue and then complete the provisional list. The government has given itself the challenge of giving the floor to Belgian society. So we cannot skip that essential step.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u15	Thank you, Minister, I know a lot of people who sleep in the Chamber, but I try to stay awake. I am somewhat confused with your reply that the list will be supplemented after the online search and the deliberative-participative project with the committees and civil cabinets in the federal Parliament, which I have not put too much effort into. That is more of a project by colleague Kristof Calvo. On the basis of your reply, I conclude that I should be an advocate for those committees. The sooner they have completed their work, the sooner we can return to the essence of the matter, in this case the amendment of the Constitution. I will urge Mr Calvo to start these committees so that we can discuss the amendment of the Constitution with you again soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u16	Mr Minister, this question has just been partly answered. I was rereading the coalition agreement. This contains an interesting passage about the fact that it takes a lot of time in Belgium to form governments. A human being might ask the fundamental question as to how there seem to be such great differences in this country that make it difficult to form governments. I think politicians and experts have already made analyses of this. I understand from the coalition agreement that it is not so much the fundamental aspect that is being addressed, but that the government-building procedure is being considered. We read in the press and in the coalition agreement that we are thinking of putting this into a time frame by, for example, introducing a formal deadline for government formation or thinking of a deblocking mechanism. In my opinion, this should be read as the sum total of the state governments, which is most frequent in the press. We've already had that conversation, but the conversation we haven't had is about the word 'evaluate' in the sentence "In order to facilitate the formation of government, we evaluate the rules of the game." Who's gonna evaluate that? Is that a task for Parliament or will the government take an initiative in it? In the meantime, I understand that this will be included in the online survey. So that's more like a government mission. Do you consider that assignment to be broader than just inclusion in that online survey, or is that it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u17	Mr Loones, as you know, the government has already taken an initiative on this issue. Indeed, in the draft declaration for the revision of the Constitution, to which I referred in my previous reply, Articles 46 and 96 have been incorporated in order to provide a solution in the future in the event of prolonged forms of government. It is likely that this theme will be part of the online platform. This remains to be discussed with the Scientific Committee and the Steering Committee. I have also noted that the Constitutional and Institutional Renewal Commission has received a request for an information report on the formation of government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u18	Minister, it has become even more unclear to me. Based on the previous answers, I assumed that this analysis of government formation would certainly be part of the online platform. Now that does not seem to be entirely certain and we need to go around with the scientific committee first. It's probably, but not yet sure. So that's where we'll see. You refer to Articles 46 and 96 of the Constitution which appear in the list of articles for revision. Is that the evaluation? Does the fact that those articles are already on that list mean that the evaluation has already been carried out? If that is the case, why are you still putting it in the dialogue platform? The whole argument is that if it has already happened or is in the coalition agreement, we will not question it anymore. Thank you for your answers, but I am afraid I will have to ask some additional questions in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u19	Minister, a smaller government, fewer politicians, smaller cabinets, it is a theme that lives in Parliament, sometimes also with concerned ministers or people in the party, but certainly also with the population. There is an interesting passage in the coalition agreement. We are talking about fewer politicians in relation to the number of Members of Parliament, but there is no record that we could also look at the number of excellence. The debate is typically about the Secretary of State. How many secretaries do we need? Should the number of Secretary of State be reduced? Shouldn't we completely delete Secretary of State? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Should the number of ministers and the composition be taken into account? There is nothing about this in the government agreement, but it is not included in your provisional list of articles of the Constitution which are declared subject to revision. Mr. Secretary, is that a forgetfulness? Is it intended to work on the number of Members of Parliament or will the number of Ministers also be evaluated? If so, do you also have plans to integrate legislation in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u20	Mr Loones, it is not for me to comment on the size of a government or this government. I note that the articles in question are not included in the legislative initiatives being prepared for revision. We will see whether they will be included in the final declaration for revision of the Constitution at the end of the legislature. Furthermore, I know the views of the various parties that have submitted proposals on the subject, but nothing was included in the government agreement, as you said.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. This is good news anyway. If it is not in the coalition agreement, you can ask a question about it in the dialogue platform. That's a suggestion. I also think you're loyal. You say that it is not up to you to take positions outside the framework of the coalition agreement. I respect that answer. I'm making another suggestion, which I'll also give to the Prime Minister. It would be a good thing if the same attitude were adopted by the other ministers in the government. I refer to an opinion document which was published last week and which was signed by all the socialist ministers on how they want to implement the European budget rules differently. That was signed with their name and function. So they do not communicate in their own name, but in their function as ministers. I can appreciate your loyal attitude, but it might be a suggestion of style for your colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u22	Madam President, Minister, this is not a question about the dialogue platform, but perhaps it will eventually land again. Questions have already been asked about the GRECO report to you and the Prime Minister. A number of questions were scheduled for this morning in the Committee on the Interior, but they have not been addressed in the light of the debates on the security crisis. However, we have already learned the following from the Prime Minister's previous answers. The GRECO made an analysis and said where there is work on the democratic flank. 22 recommendations were made two years ago. In a new report, GRECO now notes that only two real steps forward have been taken. We have questioned the Prime Minister and he says that it is not good, that it must be faster and better, especially faster. He says that it is also the task of the Ministers for Institutional Renewal and the Minister for Justice to get to work on this. He then announced, a few weeks ago, that he would discuss this with you and sit with you about it. Is that what happened in the meantime? Did you receive an invitation from the Prime Minister? Is there an IKW organized about that? What's the trajectory for that? Who's got the lead? The Prime Minister had some doubts as to whether you would be, or Minister Van Quickenborne, or the Prime Minister's own cabinet. My second question concerns a very specific issue. One of the recommendations of the GRECO is about the cabinet staff, and above all about a number of situations in which they may find themselves. It is about deontological questions, for example in revolving door situations, when people from a private cabinet start working in the private sector. Rules have been drawn up for this in other bodies, and the federal government has not yet done so. Have you taken any initiatives to remedy that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u23	Madam President, Mr Loones, first of all I can confirm that there is a dialogue between the Ministers for Institutional Reform and the Prime Minister as part of the implementation of the GRECO recommendations to Belgium in the context of the fifth evaluation cycle. In view of the next evaluation report, a coordinated initiative will be possible in the short term on the various subjects, of course within the framework of the initiatives already under way and respecting the powers of each minister. With regard to the lack of a deontological framework for cabinet staff, I can state that those seconded from the federal administration today are and remain subject to the deontological code applicable to federal officials. Of course, this one doesn't cover everyone. In addition, the objective is to take an initiative very soon to extend the scope of the law on the deontological committee, and hence the deontological code for public managers, to the substantive staff of the policy cells.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u24	Thank you for your reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u25	Madam President, Minister, it has just been pointed out that a decision has been taken, as mentioned in the government agreement and already operationalised in the meantime, following decisions in the Chamber and Senate, to set up a joint committee to evaluate all state reforms since 1970. For more than 50 years, this country has been reformed, one time in a more interesting direction than the other. That committee actually had a broad mandate, because it had to review, evaluate and list pain points. That committee should not propose solutions, but should make an analysis of what is going wrong. This mandate has gradually been restricted, because we will not discuss the whole of the issues, but only health, climate and energy, forms of cooperation and mobility. Everything else, including labour market policy, should not be discussed, let alone the special financing law or the transfers. That is the current situation. Allow me to link this situation to several of your statements and ambitions. A while ago, when that Joint Committee started up, you had committed yourself to your cabinet following it closely. That is what is happening and it is even very brave to attend those many hours of meetings. You said at that time that this will happen actively, as is the case. Therefore, Minister, I am interested to hear what you and your cabinet have learned from that joint committee. What lessons, content and operational, have you learned? One aspect of this is the question of why the discussions should end so quickly, although that is rather a question for Parliament. However, I can imagine that the government will have had a say in that. The whole of these discussions will produce a report. Minister, what will happen to that report? What are your intentions with that within the government? Will you address your fellow ministers for Health, Climate, Energy and Mobility to point out to them some of the concerns or issues that have been noted, and will you respond to them in that regard? A whole series of issues should not be dealt with in that committee, but it is my hope that you will take them on your own within the government or in cooperation with the state governments. Is that really your intention?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u26	Mr Loones, I can confirm that the work of the committee was followed by our cabinets. I would like to thank the people who were heard for their efforts during their presentations, the talks with Members of Parliament and the written contributions. The work of the Joint Committee of the Chamber and Senate will be taken into account in the continuation of the work provided for in the coalition agreement, especially in the political dialogues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u27	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I am equally grateful to all the experts who put their time and their energy into it. However, honesty leads me to the conclusion that I hope that your work within the government will have a more useful effect than the approach in that committee. I'll just say it anyway. We have repeatedly been confronted with embarrassed jaws with experts who actually put a lot of time in them and who thought that their speeches were hugely relevant, or hoped they were, but who soon came to different conclusions during the talks, but well... I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to make another point, namely the point about the chips, which you yourself referred to. The records of the administration have indeed been prepared by the federal and state administrations. We discussed this at the last meeting of the Joint Committee of Chambers and Senate. Those sheets have been shared with Parliament, for which I would like to thank you very much. Anyone can work on that now. However, I would like to make the appeal to both of you to unlock these chips in a general way and to be transparent about them. There's no secrets in that. That information is known, isn't it? Nothing stands in the way of putting them transparently on a website, so that they can also be called upon for academic research, for example. For example, there are people working on very interesting doctoral studies about this. Others are developing creative legal slopes for the future. It would also be interesting for them to have that information. I therefore call for this transparency to be chosen.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u28	Minister, no one used to know the Consultation Committee, but it is now known to everyone. This weekend we were talking about the super core under the Wilmès government, supplemented by other ministers. I found it one of Prime Minister De Croo's most interesting and smart decisions not to create new committees at the start of the new government, but to use what was already there. The Consultative Committee has also had its impact. A decision-making structure has been put in place, although I think the time has come to analyse it. We must do this in this Parliament, but in dialogue with you, as an expert in experience. The coalition agreement states that the time limit, the form and the period of such cooperation will be discussed. I would like to invite the government to do so together with Parliament. There is nothing in the coalition agreement about the composition of the Consultative Committee, which is special. Each government is judged to be about as important and has two representatives on the Consultation Committee. Only the federal government is considered more important, and is allowed to send six members. I don't think that's fair. It would be more correct for the federal government itself to do what it expects of others and to sit there with only two ministers. What do you think of these proposals and what are you going to do about them, in consultation with Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u29	Madam President, Mr Loones, this question falls within the competence of the Prime Minister, who is chairing the Consultative Committee. This committee is organized in accordance with the ordinary law of 9 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions, which can only be amended by a special law. This law, and more precisely Article 31, provides for a joint composition between the Federal State and the Länder. The Committee's internal rules also provide that ministers may be invited if they have a dossier to be presented. This joint composition seems logical to me, because you ask my opinion, so that any entity can be represented in a federal state.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u30	Madam President, Minister, it makes sense, although it is a little unfortunate, to refer to the Prime Minister. I'll take it up with him, see what we can do. I find it interesting that you do give your personal opinion on this matter. I did ask about it. It's remarkable you didn't just do it. Maybe it's interesting to choose one of the two lines. You now urge me to constantly try to ask for your opinion, when I actually intended not to do so anymore. I'd like to accept the glove.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u31	Madam Secretary, there is a small point in the coalition agreement that could charm me. The Länder would be given the opportunity to turn their holiday into a paid holiday. In this context, we were able to take note of an opinion of the National Labour Council on a draft of KB which Minister Dermagne apparently prepared to implement. Through this advice we can now take note of the main lines of that design of KB. This shows that Minister Dermagne has chosen to use the employer's operating seat as a criterion for awarding an additional paid holiday. This is of course a completely absurd choice, a holiday is something cultural. I also think it will cause a lot of practical problems. It means that hundreds of thousands of commuters working in Brussels, both from the Flemish and Walloon regions, would receive a paid holiday on the day of the Iris Festival. That party has no meaning for those commuters. It also causes a lot of practical problems when, for example, daycare is closed on their holiday while they still have to work in Brussels. On 30 March 2021, Minister Dermagne, in line with the government agreement, stated that it would be sent to the Länder, both to the Communities and to the Regions, to convert their holiday into a paid holiday. So it was up to them to make a choice. You guys were gonna get involved. The Minister of Civil Service would also be involved. Last year, in committee, it expressed its preference to deter the Communities as the competent entities. Now this is apparently imposed on a regional basis according to an employment criterion. In the opinion of the NAR and also by employers' organisations, the practical problems for the many commuters who do not live in the Region where they work are justified. I have, of course, already put a question to Minister Dermagne about his design of KB. However, I would have liked to know whether he has fulfilled his commitment and whether he has involved you as ministers responsible for institutional reform, as he himself promised. Did he discuss that with you? Were you consulted? Did that happen with your approval? Has the draft royal decree been approved by the Council of Ministers? I would have liked to know its statute. Maybe you'll also know if there was any consultation with the state ministers. Did this happen through you, or did Minister Dermagne do it directly? Do you agree with the practical objections raised by the National Labour Council, which would entail a choice for the Regions? Do you see any opportunities to change the design of royal decree? If so, in what sense?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u32	Mrs Pas, it was agreed within the government that the competent trade ministers, in this case Mr Dermagne and Mrs De Sutter, should be given the opportunity to draw up a proposal which meets that passage of the government agreement, which effectively indicates that the Länder should be given the opportunity to turn their holidays into a paid holiday. The text of Mr Dermagne's draft has not yet been discussed with us. That draft was not discussed or approved by the government either. Minister Dermagne's cabinet is currently preparing its own administration to amend that draft royal decree, following the opinion of the National Labour Council in February. As we do not yet know the content of the proposal, it is a little premature to discuss the content of the draft royal decree and the opinion of the National Labour Council. You ask whether it is logical to use the operating seat as a connecting point. That can indeed be regarded as a logical criterion. In practical terms, that seems to be the most feasible. It is particularly difficult to take the worker's place of residence as a criterion. It is virtually unworkable for the companies themselves. If a company in the Flemish Region offers employment to employees from both Flanders and Wallonia, it is logical that the company gives the holiday on 11 July and that this applies to all employees, regardless of their place of residence. Otherwise, the organisation becomes particularly difficult for the company. For commuters working in the bilingual area of Brussels Capital, several Länder are indeed competent. There may be overlaps between the various public holidays, in particular those of the Flemish Community, the French Community and the Brussels-Capital Region. That is a particular complexity, and it is certainly appropriate to await Mr Dermagne's proposal on this point. You can be sure that I will continue to follow up this dossier closely. If necessary, we can also draw up a proposal ourselves, if it proves appropriate or desirable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic725x.u33	Madam Minister, it was an interesting question and an interesting answer. I am very pleased to hear that the draft royal decree has not yet been approved and that no consultations have yet been held, because that still allows me to hope for a thorough adjustment. Allow me to make a suggestion, because our group has already tabled a legislative proposal as an alternative to working that out, not for the first time. Our proposal is based on the language of the contract of employment drawn up according to the language to which one belongs. Only in this way can the granting of a paid holiday to the Länder be arranged in a meaningful and feasible way. I will certainly follow that closely with you. Perhaps you could take the question of which holiday the people themselves prefer as a suggestion for the dialogue platform. I am very interested in what can follow from that.
