ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic696x.u1	Madam Minister, a study by the University of Antwerp indicates that the core exit entails a higher risk of blackouts and leads to higher energy prices. The researchers therefore make the necessary comments on the government's choice to carry out the core exit fully and in full according to the originally indicated timing. They immediately add that they did not yet take into account a number of elements, such as higher electricity consumption as a result of the energy transition. The fact that this is coming is already clear from Elijah's recent network operator report, which already shows higher peaks. The question is whether this was the intended effect of the government and whether the government took sufficient account of it in its deliberations in the context of its policy choice. Moreover, it has already been pointed out in previous studies that an additional price is to be expected, although it has been estimated less in previous studies than in the study cited. There are a number of questions that follow. Madam Secretary, what lessons does the government draw from the investigation? I see that you have already displayed the necessary documentation, so I assume you will be going into it in a moment. To what extent does this research affect your choice for a complete core trip in 2025? What actions does the government attach to these findings?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic696x.u2	Madam Minister, in the debate on the nuclear exit and the future of nuclear energy in this country, we are having a very difficult time convincing each other. I do believe that the debate should be conducted in a fair manner. Energy demand is likely to double by 2050. That is why we must have the courage to think carefully about the security of supply and the affordability of electricity in the future. That is certainly a concern for me. In this sense, I have also read with great attention the research of the University of Antwerp, in which very clear possible effects of a complete nuclear trip are discussed. The research report examines, among other things, the dependence of gas plants and the need for additional investments in the integration of alternative energies into the energy mix. It is always said that we need to make this change as quickly as possible and that the mix has to move in the other direction very quickly, but that obviously requires additional investment. The unpredictability of solar and wind energy is also discussed, which should lead to additional investments in, inter alia, storage capacity. Madam Secretary, you were actually there as the chickens to respond to that study. You've even stated somewhere that you won't leave your sleep for it. I find that very strange, because the final decision on a possible full nuclear exit will be taken by the government in March on the basis of a number of parameters, which you do not yet see. Who is kidding who in this House? The study also concludes that Belgium will become heavily dependent on imports of energy from abroad. Researchers predict that it could be about one third of the electricity needed on an annual basis. Other studies may give different figures. Anyway, I've heard the percentage of a third before. Engie Electrabel, who also made calculations at the time, was in the same relationship. The question is whether other countries will be able to effectively break us down at an affordable price at that time. We must not, of course, assume that there is a situation such as a paribus, because in the meantime there is the CRM, which has already been debated, and the government has started to do so in terms of security of supply. However, the question remains whether these measures will have the desired effects. I believe that the government should listen to the various scientific thesis and consider when it makes decisions. According to the study, security of supply is compromised; it even warns against blackouts and therefore necessary cuts and the fact that a complete exit will in any case lead to an increase in electricity prices. Additional comments are also made on everything related to the CO2 targets. I have said before that being right is not the same as being right, Madam Secretary. I'm just trying to look at the scientific study as it's published. I am trying to draw conclusions and I wonder what conclusions the government and you in particular draw from the study. To what extent will it influence the decisions that the government will take? The fact that you immediately suggest that the decision has already been taken, while next month the government will have to come forward with a communication for the outside world, seems strange to me. I understand that the positions in the government are quite far apart; I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic696x.u3	Minister, in this study by the University of Antwerp, it is stated that the closure of nuclear power plants in Belgium by 2025 will lead to an increase in the price of electricity, that the objectives of reducing CO2 emissions will be more difficult to achieve and that the risk of power outages will be more frequent. In view of the fact that Belgium will have to rely more on gas-fired power plants in the event of a nuclear release, the researchers pointed out in their study that the price of electricity would become even more sensitive to increases in gas prices. Renewable energy sources, on the other hand, require significant investments in network infrastructure and this cost should also be taken into account. Finally, our country would be increasingly dependent on energy imports, with one third of the electricity required on an annual basis to be imported. However, Elia indicated that this study would be too fragmented and would not take into account our country's interconnection at European level in electricity generation. This study inevitably brings us back to the agreement of 23 December by which the federal government confirmed its willingness to shut down the old reactors and replace them with gas-fired power plants, a decision which is still on the record during the creation of a gas-fired power plant in Vilvorde or elsewhere. We are today in mid-February, one month before the final decision, and time is running out for both the feasibility of Plan A, the exit of nuclear power, and Plan B, the maintenance of two reactors. At this stage, two facts emerge: firstly, the citizen still has no guarantee as to the availability and cost of energy in the future, and secondly, the only decision confirmed by the government is the use of gas, and thus the emission of 13 to 14 million tonnes of additional CO2 into the atmosphere, ignoring the climate issue. Minister, has the study of the University of Antwerp been analysed by your services and debated in the Council of Ministers? What is the current procedural situation with regard to the construction of the Vilvorde gas plant and the state of negotiations with the Flemish Government? Are there any safeguards for a final decision, whatever it may be, on March 15, 2022? In other words, do we have a guarantee that on 15 March we will not be replayed with a dilatory Vivaldi manoeuvre by which we will still be able to postpone the decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic696x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. This study is not new, although it has now been published in the press. To your questions whether I have read them and what I have done with them, I can answer that I have already taken note of them in December. Then the paper of researchers Kevin Milis, Johan Braet and Johan Springael, connected to the University of Antwerp, and of Magdalena Stüber, affiliated to the University of Munich, was published, and we took note of it. So this wasn't new to us. It is interesting, because the paper is a exploration of the post-nuclear situation of the Belgian energy mix based on a dispatching model. I brought the paper and understand that these are the first steps of the researchers in the modelling of the Belgian energy landscape. This also seems to me to be confirmed in the media that reported on this in the last few weeks and in the public statements made by the researchers in the press. It is a first application of the urbs framework, developed at the technical university of Munich, on the Belgian energy landscape and a first dataset extracted from the various publicly available data sources of 2018. This will explore an economic optimisation of the energy system under the assumption of a core exit and on the basis of Belgian consumption in 2018. Everything starts from 2018 and is then scaled up from 2018. The researchers have provided a different set of limitations in different scenarios. The results show for each scenario the electricity produced and CO2 emissions from the resulting composition of production park, storage and import. By doing so, the researchers seek connection with studies and investigations of our Belgian energy system, as already carried out several times by various bodies. Elia uses the model Antares. Antares has been developed by the French TSO RTE and is now also used by ENTSO-E for European adequacy studies. A number of you asked what conclusions I draw from this study by the University of Antwerp for the Belgian security of supply. This is done on the basis of an obligation under the European methodology, a European Ademucy Assessment by ENTSO-E, and a national Ademucy Assessment, made by the Network Manager. We have discussed this several times in committee. That's this study and you can tell the difference. I'll join the other studies. The Federal Planning Bureau uses the PRIMES model, developed and implemented by the Technical University of Athens in 1994. EnergyVille also deploys the TIMES model developed as part of the IEA ETSAP methodology. Then there is the Crystal Super Grid, applied by the Federal Planning Bureau and the Energy Board of the FPS Economy, which was developed by Artelys in the POST R&D project, supported by ADEME. I can only welcome the fact that there are people who are doing research on energy and want to develop new energy models. At the University of Ghent there is also a far-reaching model, for example the model that was also used in the framework of my report to the Government on security of supply in terms of prices. Different universities and institutions use different models and I only respect them. I have great respect for the people who look that up, who make calculations to gain a better understanding of the problems that fascinate them, which they lie awake to. They can also contribute to the social debate, especially if this knowledge is used to contribute to solutions and innovation. In my own team, in my administration, with the regulator and with Elijah, there are many such people. This also applies to our universities, on both sides of the language border. I would like to make a small comment here. Just as I would do that to my own people, I would like to appeal to these researchers as well to what they have done. The researchers themselves state that their calculations do not analyse the security of supply. Each of you said you'd gone through it before coming to the committee. One can of course go through those 16 pages perfectly on the train. It's literally in there. It literally states that the study is not about security of supply. It makes sense for the investigators to say that. After all, they do not make modulation of the LOLE. Our security of supply is expressed on the basis of the reliability standard, which is set by the Electricity Act and is set at three hours. We have already discussed this a great deal, including in current cases. That is not the point, however. Yet they conclude that there would be a risk of blackouts while this cannot be made hard with the results. However, this unfounded and suggestive conclusion was widely picked up in the press. It is not entirely clear whether this paper was submitted for peer review, as is usually the case with scientific studies. However, I note that a colleague of the researchers, namely Professor Stijn Derammelaere, openly distanced himself from the study on Twitter: "This is certainly not the study of UAntwerp, but a study of authors associated with UAntwerp. The authors have therefore had no consultation with our engineering faculty. It is extremely positive that researchers have their own opinion, but an opinion can soon be regarded as a scientifically based conclusion. In this respect, some caution must be shown. I'll come to security of supply. You asked what this means for security of supply and what conclusions I draw from it. The security of supply was examined in extenso by our national network operator in his adequacy and flexibility study, a statutory task of the network operator. The methodology of the latest adequacy and flexibility study, presented here in Parliament, has been validated by the European Commission in the context of State aid. The European Commission has validated the methodology after the Energy and ACER DG has looked at it. This builds on the methodology established in the framework of a capacity remuneration mechanism. Elia has built up a great deal of expertise and shares it in the European cooperation between network operators and ENTSO-E. Elia uses internationally recognised models and comprehensive datasets of a European integrated system. The methodology applied in the adequacy and flexibility study of June 2021 was found to comply with European rules in the framework of the approval of the Belgian CRM by the European Commission and ACER. The scenarios and datasets used were publicly consulted and coordinated with network operators in neighbouring countries. With this, Elia investigates what is necessary to meet our Belgian supply security standard of three hours LOLE. These analyses determine the volumes of annual auctions in our Belgian CRM. With these auctions, we will ensure that there will be enough capacity to cope with the core exit, assuming a three-hour calibration LOLE. It is an adequacy and flexibility study, so there is a very big piece in it about flexibility and also about increased demand in the context of electrification, not only in 2025 but also in 2030 and later. This is the basis of the Belgian policy on security of supply. In particular, Belgian legislation has been drafted by a legal mandate of Elia. This can be challenged by the University of Antwerp, at can be challenged by EnergyVille and that can be challenged by the Federal Planning Bureau. Each of them has already come up with different models, different starting points and input for policy. For example, the Federal Planning Bureau has recently carried out a study on interconnection and offshore wind. How can we grow large quantities of renewable capacity? The Planbureau also looked at the impact on CO2 emissions after the core exit in 2025. It looked at the contribution of interconnection, in particular of a Danish cable currently on the table. EnergyVille, for example, has provided input on the same point, namely the phasing-in of large-scale renewable energy. However, we base our policy on this document, not on the 16 pages of the University of Antwerp. Those pages are absolutely relevant. I invite the researchers to continue with their new model to see what this can teach us, but they need to be careful with their conclusions. If they do not investigate or write a paper on security of supply, they should not draw those conclusions. I now turn to the additional questions raised by Mr. De Smet, who asked me whether the study in question had been the subject of an analysis by my services and a debate in the Council of Ministers. As my answer above illustrates, of course we have analysed the study, but it is not customary to discuss all university studies in the Council of Ministers. As far as the current procedural situation is concerned, I am referring to the work of this committee last week. We have done the first reading of a bill on this subject and the second reading is scheduled for next week as well as the vote in plenary. In this way, we guarantee supply and affordability at all times. This Act provides that if Vilvorde does not obtain a permit before the March 15 deadline, the next candidate who has an enforceable permit will be selected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic696x.u5	Madam Minister, there are, of course, comments for each study on how it has been conducted and how it relates to other studies. That's always the case. However, after your explanation, I am particularly interested to receive in committee the authors of the study, to explain what their model is based on and how they came to their conclusions. That doesn't seem like a bad thing in itself. It is not because the study is thinner that it cannot contain any valid elements that need further examination. That is where we have work on the table. However, I will certainly not avoid the debate in order to look at the issues raised by the researchers. I don't think it's a good idea to make things like that go away. I have another question next week about an opinion from the CREG, which, as I have noticed, has since disappeared from the website. We can do that openly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic696x.u6	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic696x.u7	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You indicate that the study is not new. You were already informed in December 2021. Let us say that this is a very recent study. You note that it is exploratory and based on the consumption of 2018. However, I suspect you're trying to drown the fish today. You would point out that the study is largely suggestive and that the University of Antwerp has actually waived the study because it was not aware and it is not their study. Mr President, Mr Wollants' suggestion is quite right, however. Perhaps we should try to get the researchers to the committee, to explain and explain the study. After all, it has been repeatedly stated that this is the book on which one bases oneself and that it is only 16 pages. If, however, those pages contain important conclusions which we must take into account, this is at least worth considering. Madam Secretary, a number of concerns in the study are certainly relevant. There is talk of dependence on gas plants. That is correct and a legitimate concern. We are talking about the unpredictability of sun and wind, also a point that has been mentioned a number of times here in committee. They also call for the integration of alternative energy into the energy mix, warning that if things go too fast, very heavy investments will have to be made to enable this integration. Someone's gonna have to pay that bill eventually. For the record, Minister, I am not opposed to alternative energy in the energy mix. You said just now that you are looking at interconnections in the future, but you are actually drawing a different conclusion, namely that we are dependent on foreign energy. Of course, our ability to generate alternative energy is limited. Soon the coastline will be full, and also for windmills on land there are not so many possibilities. With solar panels, growth is still possible, but there will be a brake here and there. In that case, you will have to look at other countries, such as interconnections with Germany or cable to Denmark. Such things make us particularly vulnerable, because something strategic like energy must be kept as much as possible in our own hands. If I look at the different conclusions of the study and then look at the debates we have had here and at the answer you have just given, then I would not dare to say that the study is suggestive. It may then be based on the 2018 consumption, but we all know that energy needs will continue to grow exponentially in the coming years. I am also very sorry that when such scientific studies are published in the press, the automatic reflex continues to follow that the core exit has already been decided. It always sounds like the intention is not to keep the nuclear power stations open for longer, while a number of parameters are still being tested within the government and not everyone within the government shares your opinion. Sometimes I feel that the ground is getting very hot under your feet when it comes to this issue. Mr President, I have also tabled a motion asking for the scientific study to be included in the decision-making process on the possible extension of the lifetime of Objective 4 and Tihange 3. That decision should, in principle, fall next month.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic696x.u8	Minister, thank you for your very clear answers. I have nothing to add. We expect to see what Vivaldi will offer us on March 15.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic696x.u9	Thank you. This fascinating discussion is certainly not over. I just wanted to quote from the report: "While the energy mix is a social and political choice on which the authors do not share the same opinion, the presented result indications that a nuclear phase-out in the current Belgian situation is disastrous." That is, of course, a value judgment. They conclude: "The model result shows that there is more work needed to accurately model the impact of the increased projectable predicted renewable penetration on the transmission grid stability and blackout risk as well as investigating the blackout risk surrounding high dependence on imported electricity." This reflects what the study is about, but it is also a sign of modesty. If we are in favour of not doing greenwashing, this study probably should not be 'blackwashing' either. We are all looking forward to the further work of the government. I take note, on the one hand, of Mr Van Lommel's motion of recommendation and, on the other, of Mrs Buyst's simple motion to move on to order of the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic696x.u10	Mr President, since you are commenting on the study, I would also like to say a few words. I have also listened to the debate. I must say that the Minister is doing this very correctly and in detail, but I also think she is rather good about that study. I hear the question of inviting these people here. Mr Van Lommel says he has looked at this study very carefully, because he likes an honest debate. However, I have already seen him attack the Minister personally in plenary, and I found that absolutely unfair. I've looked at that study, too, and I've seen the researchers' reaction. One can say anything in 16 pages. In particular, I saw headlines in which very quick conclusions were drawn. I then saw those researchers talking. Each conclusion was immediately heavily nuanced by themselves. I think they themselves were shocked by the newspaper articles that resulted in their study, apart from all the concerns of other scientists at the University of Antwerp. I would be happy to debate every study here, but it would be a good idea for Mr Van Lommel to refer to other studies as well. At least Mr Wollants had the honesty to refer to other studies that have shown that the affordability of the core exit may not be the biggest problem. It is absolutely true that there are difficulties that we need to discuss, but I have a little more confidence in other studies I have seen on this subject. Mr Van Lommel, you are always talking about the unpredictability of renewable energy and the problems with gas plants, but look at France. Then you will see that there is no form of production that is not concerned about today. This will always be a difficult story. You also mentioned energy connection. Even a new Flemish city state would also need overseas. We'll never be able to do it alone. This connection, especially in a centrally located country such as Belgium, will be particularly important. Mr President, I hear the demand to hear the scientists. I would like to point out that we have not always done this for other studies either. That seems less useful to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic696x.u11	Look, Mr Verduyckt, I'm here to debate and ask questions about topics of political relevance. You shouldn't judge that. If you feel that you should also intervene in the debate, then you should also ask questions yourself. As you know, we are participating in all the debates on security of supply. We've always done that. You must not say that we are selective, because we are also looking at other studies. If they are dealt with in this committee, we will also give our opinion on them. Well, let's get these studies over with. With regard to imports from abroad, I would remind you that it was your Minister Vande Lanotte who sold everything to France at the time. You must not now see that independence from other countries is not possible. The debate is conducted fairly from all sides.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic696x.u12	Mr President, my name has been mentioned. I'd still like to respond. Mr Van Lommel says he wants to conduct the debate honestly. You have not submitted any interviews about all other studies. Now a study appears that suits you very well and you submit an interplay. What does that have to do with an honest debate? Then you should also have submitted an interview on the other studies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic696x.u13	From the shock of ideas comes light.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic696x.u14	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the reply of the Minister for Energy, - having regard to the study of researchers from the University of Antwerp simulating the impact of a complete nuclear exit; - whereas a full core step, according to the study, will lead to undesirable effects on price, security of supply, C02 targets and import dependence; asks the government - to include the scientific study in the decision-making process as regards the decision to extend the lifespan of Objective 4 and Tihange 3.' A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the response of the Minister of Energy, - having regard to the study carried out by researchers at the University of Antwerp, consisting of a simulation of the incidence of a complete nuclear exit; - Whereas, according to the study, a complete exit from nuclear power will lead to undesirable effects in terms of prices, security of supply, CO2 objectives and import dependence; asks the government - to take this scientific study into account in the decision-making process on a possible extension of the lifespan of Doel 4 and Tihange 3." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Kim Buyst. A simple motion was tabled by Kim Buyst. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic696x.u15	Mr President, I am sure that Mr Verduyckt will be nervous again, because he does not have a solution to this difficult item on the agenda either, namely the rising energy bills. Madam Minister, the Federal Ombudsman of Energy made a few statements on the issue and I do not intend to put him in any trouble here today. I think it is very brave that he should draw conclusions. That man ended up in reality every day and in the interview with Het Laatste Nieuws he sketched a realistic picture of what he is going through every day. I think it is particularly important to listen to such people. There has been a debate in Parliament for several months now on the unprecedented energy price increases that we are facing, and of course we must wait for the geopolitical situation to influence, among other things, the tensions with Russia on the global gas price. The fact is that more and more people can't afford their energy bill. Yesterday, moreover, it became clear that the more and more families have to come to the OCMW. Madam Minister, it was a bit of a swallow when the Ombudsman warned that in the coming months, perhaps hundreds of thousands of families will be in financial difficulties and will be in danger of energy poverty. The social tariff was extended to 1 million families. But a lot of consumers, for example the lower middle class, fall out of that boat, while they also face high final bills. We must not underestimate this problem. Those who have been smart and, before October 2021, when the price increases started, a fixed contract of one year, in some cases even three years, is still quite well off, as they can continue to meet existing prices for the time being. The more permanent contracts expire, the more they have to conclude new contracts. Energy suppliers are not really happy to offer fixed contracts at the moment, so people will pay for their energy. The Ombudsman also talked about misleading communications from energy suppliers, who are keenly seeking to raise tariffs in fixed contracts, a problem that we have often debated before. Suppliers often try to take advantage of the lack of consumer knowledge. The Ombudsman advocates structural measures in the interview. On the one hand, he welcomed the extension of the social tariff and the reduction of VAT. However, he regretted that the VAT reduction was only for a few months, which would not have an excessive impact. According to him, the 100 euro heating premium is peanuts. From various sources in government circles and even from someone who has sat at the table with you, I have heard that the tax reduction on gas was no pasarán for you, just because for you the environmental objectives were in line. That is bad, and so does the Ombudsman. After all, people cannot pay their energy bill and therefore expect decisiveness. He therefore also speaks of a missed opportunity. Madam Minister, I do not want to argue in favour of one measure or another; we do need to hear all sides of the story, and now it appears that energy suppliers - while the share of social tariff has increased and they have to advance the full pot of their suppliers, among other things, they sometimes have to wait until two years to get the difference between the actual amount and the social rate paid by the consumer back. Just a few months ago, you warned us that we absolutely had to avoid further energy suppliers going bankrupt, because this is detrimental to the consumer. This concern must be given due attention. Do you share the concerns of the Federal Ombudsman? What conclusions do you draw from this? How will policies anticipate this? Is there sufficient capacity to cope with the complaints without major delays? The Ombudsman has stated that his services have recently been flooded with consumer questions. The Ombudsman also advocates structural measures. When do you really want to provide countries and structural solutions for the expensive bills of both gas and electricity? How do you avoid further energy suppliers, which are obviously not catalogued as producers, becoming in difficulty or going bankrupt? Energy suppliers who produce themselves have more margin to survive the crisis than energy suppliers who themselves depend on producers and have to buy everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic696x.u16	I do not think Mr Verduyckt is getting nervous about your interaction, but about the practices on the market today. That is why Mr Verduyckt, long before there were problems, has already taken legislative initiatives in committee, including on dormant energy products. Your interplay will therefore only be embraced. More importantly, a great deal of legislative work has already been done in committee and further initiatives are being considered. I cannot, of course, speak on behalf of Mr Verduyckt. We already share the Ombudsman's concerns. During the budget conclave in October, it was already decided to carry out increased supervision of the supplier market. The European regulator ACER also calls for such increased supervision from the authorities and regulators together. It is therefore now up to the regulator, as well as the Ombudsman and the Economic Inspectorate, to ensure that the three competent ministers, the Minister for Economic Affairs in the framework of commercial practices, the Secretary of State for Consumer Protection, and myself as Minister for Energy, are informed of the complaints that come to them. The aim is, of course, to be able to change our policy. A few weeks ago we discussed the phasing-out of dormant products and last week we discussed the phasing-out of the social tariff under the bill on higher prices. As far as the types of complaints are concerned, the first group of complaints concerns prices and tariffs. Those complaints are about multiple suppliers. There's not one supplier out there. On the contrary, it is market-wide and supplier-wide. I had contacts with the Ombudsman on this when we were preparing the Law on various provisions on energy. Moreover, this draft law will be discussed in plenary next week and includes, inter alia, a tightening of the advance invoicing regime. It also imposes obligations on suppliers in respect of advances. We discussed this last week. The complaints about an unwanted switch from a fixed to a variable rate were also dealt with immediately, but in most cases that switch was in breach of current legislation. It seems to me that there is no point in getting intertwined as legislators. We do follow this closely and let market control do its job. In the complaints about market practices, we specifically look at one supplier who provided for a transfer of contracts and said that this was done in the framework of the law on dormant products. This legislation provides for clear communication with the customer. However, the CREG noted that the change of conditions did not always take place within the framework of that law, but that it was hidden behind it. This case was cleared by the CREG and corrected by the supplier in question. We have already discussed this in this committee. I said then that if the supplier makes a mistake, it is up to the supplier to correct that error; he cannot say that the customer should contact him. Of course, the complaints are not all at the federal level. There is also a lot of complaints about the installation of digital meters and about the Flemish public service. It concerns almost a quarter of the complaints at the Federal Ombudsmen's Office. Of course, there is nothing we can do about that. Complaints about customer service have also increased slightly, with some 2%. This would be due to the inaccessibility of suppliers through the Flemish migration to MIG6. However, I have heard from the suppliers that migration to MIG6 went well. In my view, the complaints resulting from this will therefore decrease again this year. On the question of payment problems, there was a rather positive message. Suppliers signed the corona charter in 2021, which was an initiative of Pierre-Yves Dermagne, Eva De Bleeker, myself and the sector. This was clearly well followed up by the suppliers. I am grateful that the Ombudsman explicitly mentions this in his press release, because it is not self-evident to recognise the additional efforts that suppliers are making for their customers at these times. Those efforts are indeed there. As for the capacity of the ombud service, I can inform you that this government has approved the budget of the ombud service every year without any adjustments. The financing of the ombuds service is mainly based on an ombuds contribution due by each electricity and gas undertaking, distributed on the basis of the number of complaints for each of the undertakings. The operating budget proposed by the Ombudsman for 2022 is EUR 1.8 million, a small increase over the 2021 budget. Of these, 80% go to staff expenditure each year, accounting for 18 FTE. An evaluation shall be carried out to review the functioning and staff shortage of the ombuds service. We will do this once a new College of Federal Ombudsmen and/or Women has been appointed. Indeed, the ombudsmen today have to deal with far more complaints than usual, but our Ombudsman himself has already adapted a sleeve to that. For the incoming stream of complaints, the Ombudsman will work with several interims. Several types of complaints are on the same subject, such as complaints about increases in advance invoices and about switching to variable products. These complaints can now be dealt with by the ombudsdienst together. generic recommendations are being drawn up on this subject, saving work and time. I have spoken with the Ombudsman about those generic recommendations, which I am very much in favour of, because such a recommendation, which covers the whole sector, in response to individual complaints that have been identified, also provides input for the policy of correcting if necessary. As far as structural policy is concerned, this government has taken many steps. In order to avoid that the bill would rise due to federal charges, the in-depth reform of the invoice has been implemented in the form of the energy standard and the processing of the federal charge into an excise duty. This is a measure implemented by suppliers from 1 January 2022. You know that suppliers say that implementation is difficult and they ask for time. I note that they have spared no effort to implement this from 1 January 2022. On top of this reform, Minister Van Peteghem and myself are currently looking at the development of a cliquet system. Finally, I would like to remind you once again that, last autumn, all the federal authorities that follow market forces, consumer practices and suppliers, namely the CREG, the Economic Inspectorate and the ombudsmen, received a letter to report the problems that would arise rapidly. That is the increased vigilance we have implemented. A major advantage of this is that there is enhanced cooperation between these three actors. I understand that there is regular exchange of information on dossiers in order to provide the best possible follow-up. You are also asking me about the actions I am taking to help smaller energy suppliers, but I know that the Energy Ombudsperson has not spoken on this subject. Of course, I do not want to deny you an answer to your question, but I would like to stress that the protection of small suppliers is not a matter of federal competence, but of consumer protection. It is also important for consumers to maintain competition on the market. It is in everyone's favor that no small suppliers go overboard, so we do as much as possible under our federal jurisdiction to prevent that. In financing the extension of the social tariff, for example, pre-financing is foreseen, as is for the federal flat-rate discounts granted, for example the 80 euros. This increases the cash position of suppliers. What we can do, for our part, is not to increase the cash position unnecessarily for suppliers in these difficult times. In addition, it is no less important to create a level playing field for suppliers and to ensure that the rules are as clear as possible for everyone. We shall therefore take another step in the right direction with the various provisions of the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic696x.u17	Madam Minister, high energy prices will last for a while. That is a world phenomenon that we cannot escape. In any case, we will have to look at how we can continue to deal with them. You say that the complaints received by the Energy Office are included in the policy. That is certainly important, because that is how people know what is alive and what is happening. Of course, energy suppliers are using creative practices, and they will continue to do so, whatever legislation is being implemented, but it is important to continue to examine them carefully and to provide sufficient tools to enable fines and similar penalties to be applied in respect of these malicious practices. There is indeed a great deal of legislative work that has been done in recent months, but there is still a lot of work to be done in the coming period. You also say that 25% of the complaints were not federal jurisdiction but a Flemish matter. That's true, but no matter how you run it, the number of complaints received from the Energy Ombudsperson has increased exponentially. If we are thinking about structural measures, then the much discussed turning button on excise duties is not enough. Among other things, this is also about a structural VAT reduction, which the Ombudsman is also in favour of. I know that a lot can also be done at Flemish level to further degreas the energy bill. However, I can only observe that there are as many views within the government as there are parties in this area, but the citizen does not benefit from it, because at the end of the journey the citizen still cannot pay his energy bill. Party presidents who are going to date may also need to meet with people who cannot pay their energy bills, so that they can hear what lives with those people and what goes on in such families. Apart from the differing views on the VAT reduction in the government, I insist that the EUR 100 heating premium is really a handout. Even the Ombudsman speaks of a missed opportunity, he calls it literally peanuts. I think that's how the population perceives it. More determination is therefore needed. I understand that you were going to stand in the way of a tax reduction on gas, and I am particularly sorry that this had to happen. I can only conclude, as in many cases, that there is little work in this government. The energy file is once again a file whose citizens are the victims. Mr President, I am tabling a motion of recommendation. I therefore call for measures to be taken, if necessary, to increase the capacity of the Energy Office. It is said that the pressure on that service may decrease by the end of the year, but we do not know that. I think we're still a long way from getting out of trouble. I would also ask for further structural intervention in the energy bill, including the implementation of a permanent and unconditional VAT reduction on electricity and also on natural gas. I would ask you to ensure that the difference between the energy costs actually to be paid and the social tariff advances is avoided in order to avoid further bankruptcies in the future. I understand that the government is working on pre-financing to protect these companies, but this remains a focus of attention in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic696x.u18	The Minister would very much like to refer to the energy standard and the structural transition from one to the next, but we should note that the effect of the difference between 2021 and 2022 on the invoice was nil. It may be a structural transition, but we are waiting for the citizens to see the difference. You will then say that a lot of costs were not included in the invoice, but the invoice is slightly higher in 2022 for federal charges, based on the fact check, than in 2021. That is not the difference. The solution through the heating premium is all good, everyone gets something, but the Ombudsman says it remains peanuts. There's no answer to that. To a part of the population that has barely seen an increase, one gives the same thing as to the share that thousands of euros have to pay more per year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic696x.u19	You must close here, because this is no longer about the interplay.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic696x.u20	Mr President, I refer to Rule 131, which states that in an interplay three people who have not submitted an interplay can replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic696x.u21	Finish your sentence and we'll finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic696x.u22	Madam Minister, you are not responsible for keeping small suppliers in service, but a study in the Netherlands has shown that, in every bankruptcy, the price for the customer has risen structurally. You have a responsibility in this regard, and I am pleased that you are taking steps in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic696x.u23	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the reply of the Minister for Energy, - having regard to the judgments of the Federal Ombudsman for Energy, which state that hundreds of thousands of families may fall into energy poverty; - having regard to the concerns expressed about the absence of structural measures in the fight against the high energy bill; - having regard to the fact that the heating premium of EUR 100 is "peanuts against the high invoices" and is a missed opportunity, - having regard to the understaff of the ombud service who are barely able to keep up with the complaints, - whereas late payment by the public authorities to energy suppliers on the social tariff forces operators to creativity to the detriment of consumers; - whereas a permanent reduction in VAT on electricity and natural gas combined with a further degreasing of the invoice contribute structurally to a reduction in the energy bill; asks the government - take measures to increase the capacity of the Ombudsman; - structural intervention on the energy bill; - a permanent and unconditional reduction in VAT for both natural gas and electricity; - to pay energy suppliers the difference between the actual and the social rates in good time in order to avoid further bankruptcies that would be detrimental to consumers.' A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the response of the Minister of Energy, - in the light of statements by the Energy Mediation Service that hundreds of thousands of households are at risk of falling into energy poverty; - having regard to the considerations on the absence of structural measures to cope with high energy bills - in view of the reflection that the heating premium of EUR 100 "represents only peanuts in front of the high level of bills" and constitutes a missed opportunity; - as the mediation service is understaffed and barely able to keep up with complaints; - Whereas late payments by the State to energy suppliers under the social tariff force operators to be creative at the expense of the consumer; Whereas a permanent reduction in VAT on electricity and natural gas, combined with a new skimming of the invoice, will contribute structurally to reducing the level of the energy bill; asks the government - take measures to increase the capacity of the mediation service; - to intervene structurally on the energy bill; - a permanent and unconditional reduction of VAT on natural gas and electricity; - to pay the difference between the actual and social tariffs on time to energy suppliers in order to avoid further bankruptcies which would be harmful to the consumer." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Kim Buyst. A simple motion was tabled by Kim Buyst.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic696x.u24	You're using your rights, and that's good. You have already tabled a motion on the subject of VAT.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic696x.u25	This has even been the subject of legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic696x.u26	This will be submitted to the Conference of Presidents, which will put the motions to the vote.
