ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u1	Mrs Samyn, thank you for your question. I share your concern about the lack of religious freedom in Iran. Belgium closely follows the human rights situation in Iran through our embassy in Tehran and through the services of the FPS Foreign Affairs in Brussels. Human rights are systematically addressed in bilateral contacts with the representatives of the Islamic Republic of Iran. At the level of the United Nations, the international community adopted a resolution on the human rights situation in Iran at the General Assembly. This resolution was sponsored by Belgium. The resolution calls on Iran to put an end to the control of persons on the basis of their religious identity; to liberate all religious practitioners imprisoned for their membership of, or activities on behalf of, a recognised or unrecognised religious minority group; and to ensure that everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion or belief, in line with the Convention on Civil Rights and Political Rights, which has ratified Iran. Belgium also participates in the interactive dialogue with the special rapporteur on the human rights situation in Iran, whose mandate supports our country. This special rapporteur, as well as the special rapporteur on religious freedom, is aware of the issue of the lack of religious freedom in Iran. I would like to remind you that the European Union has already adopted sanctions against dozens of people for the human rights situation in Iran. The EU has had a specific sanction regime for human rights violations in Iran since 2011. This regime exists alongside the overall EU sanctions regime for human rights violations. With regard to Belgian initiatives to promote religious freedom in the Islamic world, I refer to my answer to your earlier question on Christian persecution. As you know, the promotion and protection of human rights are a priority of Belgian and European foreign policy. This includes freedom of religion and/or faith. The EU developed guidelines on freedom of religion or belief, which guide the promotion and protection of this freedom in the EU's external policies. Our country contributed to the development of these guidelines and is implementing them. As far as your final question is concerned, the negotiations on a new JCPOA are trying to reduce the nuclear risk posed by Iran and, consequently, to minimise the risk of nuclear proliferation in the region. This is essentially a regional and global security issue. Those who say security also say the right to life and freedom. In this sense, there is a fundamental link with human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u2	Mr Secretary of State, it is a sad observation that in an increasing number of countries, especially in the Arab world, religious minority groups are seen as a threat. As far as Iran is concerned, we can deduce that Iran sees religious freedom and tolerance, whether it is about Christians or Bahais, as an undermining of state security. It is also in itself, because theocratic Islam dictatorships would not exist when people are free to believe in what they want and are free to abandon the dogmatic Islam that is being forced upon them. It's a good thing you're worried about this, too. I therefore hope that violations of human rights, in particular religious freedom, will continue to be raised in Iran and wherever in the world in international fora. I would like to come back to a question concerning the JCPOA. It is no secret that Belgium is advocating a return to the nuclear deal, but Iran has proven that this deal will not change the country's position, either internally or externally. However, it has invested the resources released by lifting sanctions in its military apparatus to suppress its own citizens and to interfere in and stir up regional conflicts. Iran has also continued to invest in weapons technology. I still wonder how this deal can be an advantage for security in the world. Is it not more about the business interests of multinationals in Iran? That is certainly not the most important element. Then I would like to say nothing about the numerous political prisoners, such as Professor Djalali, another example why we should not do business with Iran.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u3	Mr President, the subject of the European elections is so important that I have put two questions on it. I would like to refer to its written version.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u4	Mr President, I too would like to refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u5	On 2 May, the European Parliament adopted a resolution proposing the reform of the European electoral law. The main changes to the proposal concern the introduction of transnational lists and the legal anchoring of the spitzencandidate system. 28 additional seats would be created for MEPs elected in an EU-wide constituency. The proposal also contains some elements to harmonise the European elections in the Member States, such as the introduction of a common European electoral day. The proposal partly responds to proposal 38 from the final report of the conference on the future of Europe, in which European citizens call for the strengthening of European democracies, participation in the European elections and the transnational debate on European issues. In order to ensure that large Member States do not have an unfair advantage in the election of MEPs in the EU-wide constituency, the EU-wide lists will be divided into sections with three positions each, filling these three positions with a candidate from each of three geographically balanced groups of Member States. The initial discussions of the proposal in the General Affairs Council Working Group have yet to begin. At the moment, therefore, there are a lot of questions for clarification and for clear positions. We will have to examine to what extent the innovations are feasible and in accordance with the European Treaties, in particular with the principles of subsidiarity, institutional balance and regional self-government. The budgetary impact of 28 additional seats in the European Parliament will also be examined. It will also be necessary to examine the opportunity of the single European electoral day, since such a voting day does not offer any flexibility to align the election day with working days, holidays or holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, I have asked many questions about the government's position on these proposals, but in fact you have not answered any of them. You described what it is about and what are the questions to be answered, but you have not indicated in any way what this government is about. Mr President, I hope that this does not turn out to be a trend, since the questions are passed on to the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister, to whom the questions were originally asked, does not answer the questions. Mr Secretary of State, you say that the transnational electoral lists will be needed to strengthen European democracy. I am asking myself some serious questions. Europe apparently thinks it will strengthen democracy by allowing a Belgian to opt for a Bulgarian, a Greek or I don't know. I think that the feeling that it is a far-from-my-bed show will only be reinforced by the citizen. With regard to the possible greater consideration of large Member States, you say that it will all have to be looked at and that there is a principle with sections. That's all very complicated. There is no doubt that large Member States are in favour of ranking and name recognition. We may not want to admit it, but Belgium is and remains a rather small Member State, although we are one of the six founding Member States, which makes us large, but Belgium remains a small Member State in population. I have also received absolutely no answer to my question as to how the principle of these transnational electoral lists, where there will be one candidate per Member State, can be reconciled with our constitutional structure. We have three electoral circles in Belgium. This would mean that two of the three constituencies would not be taken into account. So, Mr Secretary of State, I had a lot of questions, but I have not received any indication of what our government is like. That is precisely what this questioning session is about. You rightly indicated that Parliament's resolution will now be on the table in the Council. For me, the proposals on this European electoral law are an example of how far the European Union, and specifically the European Parliament, sometimes departs from reality. I very much regret that, because the European Union does have an added value, can indeed bring added value. In fact, I will go into this further in my next question. So I am very sorry about that. I am also sorry that I have not received any answers to my many questions on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, I join Mrs Van Bossuyt. Perhaps we can re-table our questions for the next Question Time and then get a better answer. Following the departure of Great Britain, the euro did not fall on those who were in favour of further enlargement of the European Union. It would be thought that there would have been a moment of reflection among the Eurocrats. Didn't we go too far? Is the people of Europe really in favour of this concept? Should we not have a more balanced relationship with the desire for a national identity? It would only have made sense to observe a moment of reflection. No, the elite in the European Parliament and the European Commission are doing the opposite. In a few years' time, the power of the EU and its powers have been extended to such an extent that we are now in an almost irreversible state. Make no mistake, the modal European does not want more European Union, but just less European Union. People don't want more taxes, they want less taxes. We do not want more European debt, but just less. As a icing on the cake, a start is now being made on the principle of representatives of the people who will no longer sit on behalf of their own people but only on behalf of the European Union. A moment of reflection by the European elite would have been appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u8	I refer to my question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u9	The Conference on the Future of Europe proved to be an extraordinary democratic exercise, unseen in the history of Europe and the world. Citizens came forward with 49 proposals and more than 300 concrete measures in a wide range of fields, from the environment to youth policy. These include innovative and original proposals, but also recommendations in line with legislative initiatives already proposed at European level, such as the proposal for a directive on improving working conditions in platform work and the proposal for a European area of health data. It is also proposed to introduce a youth income. Like all other citizens' proposals, this proposal deserves a thorough analysis and serious consideration. Our Belgian citizens contributed substantially to the final report with recommendations, especially on the issues of European democracy, rule of law and youth. Many of these recommendations were included in the Conference's final report. Mrs Van Bossuyt, you asked about the cost of this project. A very precise answer to that question is difficult to provide, as the European institutions often used already available resources, such as the Council's translation capacity. I received the following indicative amounts from the Joint Secretariat of the Conference on the Future of Europe. The European Parliament paid around EUR 6.8 million. The European Commission paid around 15 million euros in total. For the National Civil Panel, the total costs for the organisation were limited to EUR 150,000. This budget took account of the various cost items, including preparation and supervision by the firm to which the public contract was awarded, the costs of the members of the consultative committee on civic participation, the interpreters, the remuneration of the editors of the Egmont Institute, the flat-rate reimbursement of transport costs and the daily allowance for citizens, meals and drinks for 6 days. Many lessons can be learned from this unique exercise with the various panels of European citizens. It is therefore being considered at European level to improve the concept of the Conference and to use it in future for specific legislative proposals or on a regular basis. In the short term, however, it is particularly important to follow the various recommendations made by the Conference. We are awaiting the feasibility studies of the Commission and the Secretariat for the precise modalities for the implementation of the recommendations, including a convention. We are open to all the options for implementing the recommendations, which is why the government did not support Denmark's non-paper of 9 May, but Germany's, which advocates a clear process of monitoring the Conference and keeping all the options open for implementation. Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Italy and Spain also signed this document.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u10	Mr. De Smet has just joined us and will speak at the time of the replicas.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u11	I therefore continue my answer in French. Belgium continues to make efforts to ensure that citizens receive a concrete and clear feedback from the conference. The Czech Presidency, which will take the lead in the Council of the European Union in the next half-year, has indicated its intention to organise an event in the autumn on the implementation of the recommendations, which we fully support.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u12	Mr President, Secretary of State, I am moved to hear you say that the Conference on the Future of Europe was an extremely democratic exercise in Europe's history and even in world history. It is inconceivable that we should be involved in such matters. I wonder if Europe and the world have really helped with all the millions of euros that went to that conference. To be honest, I'm afraid that's what I'm afraid of. Last week, your fellow Minister for the Interior, Annelies Verlinden, referred to the Conference on the Future of Europe as the model for the exercise we have made here in Belgium. That exercise was also a big flop. So one flop referred to the other flop. That's too bad. The Conference on the Future of Europe is not what the citizens need. Nor is it what Europe needs. Europe needs concrete things and concrete initiatives that change the daily lives of its citizens. Europe can do that. I am thinking, for example, of the internal market, where there are still so many challenges. If we complete these challenges, Europe can provide so many additional jobs. I am also thinking of the energy and climate challenges. I am thinking of the challenges of migration. These are the things that Europe should do. It should not be organising conferences that you can not blame me for using the European Parliament and other European institutions to carry out their own institutional agenda. Mr Secretary of State, let us simply face this rather than talk about an extraordinary exercise that has changed the history of Europe and of the world. After all, the latter will only bring Europe further from the citizen. We must do the opposite.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u13	Secretary of State, I apologize for my delay. I was still able to grasp the essentials of your answer. In my view, what constitutes the future of Europe is not so much diplomatic conferences as the trials and facts to which it opposes. We can talk about the war in Ukraine and the energy crisis. All these projects require a European Union that is remobilised around founding projects. We could indeed imagine for tomorrow a Europe of renewables and nuclear power, where we once had a common market for coal and steel. We're witnessing a project breakdown. Would it be due to a failure of leaders or to a lesser desire on the part of the people to build a little more Europe? For me, she's still part of the solution. National officials therefore have their share of involvement. I thank you and the Minister for Foreign Affairs for keeping an eye on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u14	I think this is the right direction, maar geen commentaar.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u15	Ms. Jadin postponed her questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u16	Minister, when there are social and economic tensions in Turkey, we must always fear that President Erdogan is looking for some room for international initiatives. Recently, he took advantage of the accession of Sweden and Finland to play with the muscle again. He also threatened with a fifth invasion of Northern Syria to clean up a 30-kilometer safe zone of rebellion to house 4 million refugees there later. That's not the first time. It's another invasion he's planning there. Turkey's earlier actions against the Kurds in Syria led to the establishment of a number of arms embargoes. Erdogan is now setting the abolition of this as one of the conditions for Sweden and Finland to join NATO. The connection is unclear, that's what they call blackmail policy. In your view, given the threat of a new Turkish offensive, could this be the case? If, despite all the distress of its allies, Turkey were to engage in military operations, should Europe and the European Member States of NATO take new sanctions against the country? In which domains should this be done? It goes without saying that this issue will be used regularly by President Erdogan to launch new actions. What steps can Belgium and Europe take to ensure the integrity and stability of Rojava, the Kurdish region in Northern Syria? The Russian-Ukrainian war gave the impression for a moment that the fault lines between Europe and Turkey had been forgotten, but an escalation in Syria could change that again. What impact could it have on cooperation? What preventive measures do you think Europe should take to remedy the consequences?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u17	Thank you for your question, Mr De Roover. I would like to clarify that the recent intervention by the Turkish army on 18 April 2022 is not in itself a new development. Since the beginning of the 1990s, Turkey has repeatedly intervened in northern Iraq to attack PKK support points. The interventions in Syria, on the other hand, are more recent. Following a third Turkish offensive in Northeast Syria in 2019, the EU Foreign Affairs Council adopted conclusions calling for strict application of the 2008 Common Position on Arms Exports. Reducing arms exports to Turkey due to threats to regional stability was legitimate. It was also recognised that some Member States have already stopped all exports. Strictly speaking, this was not an EU arms embargo against Turkey: arms exports to Turkey were not prohibited. However, some Member States took restrictive measures in individual Titles with regard to arms exports to Turkey. Since then, the issue of Turkey as a destination for arms exports has been discussed at each COARM meeting, but Member States' positions continue to differ. The common position on arms exports to third countries consists of a set of minimum criteria which do not prevent Member States from pursuing stricter policies for certain destinations. Decisions on arms exports remain essentially a national competence, although they are framed at European level. On 23 May 2022, President Erdogan announced a new intervention by the Turkish army in Northern Syria. Turkey justifies this future operation, as well as the previous one, with the security consideration to protect its territory from attacks by the PKK. The other members of the anti-Daesh coalition fear the consequences of a new Turkish intervention for the fight against Daesh, which has not yet been definitively defeated. I don't answer questions. If Turkey launches a new operation, we will look with our European partners at the appropriate attitude. Furthermore, it must be clear that Belgium does not recognise the autonomous Kurdish administration in Northern Syria and that there can therefore be no guarantee of the territorial integrity of a territory which has no international legal status. Belgium does not question Syria's territorial integrity. However, our country has always defended the view that the political process led by the UN should be as inclusive as possible. All political groups should have a place in this. Our country contributes to the stability of Eastern Syria. That is why we are providing humanitarian aid through UN organisations that also benefit Northeast Syria.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u18	Mr Secretary of State, you say that there is division at European level, while we have guessed at the Belgian position, because that is not reported here. I assume that your government is nevertheless taking a position, and I find it interesting to hear that one day. You say that there is a great deal of room for own policies, even under the European dome or umbrella. However, we also hear little about this own policy, since you say you never answer any of the following questions. Nochtans, governing is planning. You cannot sit and wait for something to happen and decide at that time. President Erdogan's announcement was clear, and I think that a response to this is desirable in view of its consequences. Also, on how we deal with his link between arms restrictions and embargoes on the one hand and the accession of the two Scandinavian countries to NATO on the other, you do not inform Parliament. I regret that, because that link is bizarre and has far-reaching implications for our overall broad defence and security policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u19	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, with this question, I would like to return to the progress made since my written and oral questions last year on the maintenance and repair of the terminals along the border between Belgium and France. The latter, decorated with an Austrian eagle with two heads, or with letters N and F, have a real historical value, which Mrs Wilmès also pointed out at the time. Unfortunately, the wear and tear of time, traffic and theft tend to make them disappear. Following my questions, Mrs Wilmès announced that the question of the mandate of a border commission had already been discussed with France in a joint working group and that the question of our border pillars could be put on the agenda. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also pointed out that the ongoing consultation between France and Belgium took place in parallel with a consultation between the FPS Foreign Affairs and Finance. Mr Secretary of State, what initiatives have been taken with our French neighbours regarding the said border pillars? Could you inform us of the conclusions reached following the various consultations on this subject between our two countries and between the Federal Public Services? Finally, what is the time frame for the next progress expected on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u20	Mr President, as mentioned earlier on this subject, the Commission's mandate, as proposed by France, would not be limited to the preservation and maintenance of border terminals, but would also ensure that the work on the delimitation and conservation of borders, as well as the resolution of disagreements on the border line, is carried out on a permanent basis. FPS Foreign Affairs has maintained contact with the Measurement and Photogrammetry Centre within FPS Finance. This service works with its French counterparts to carry out technical work on the delimitation of the border, in accordance with European legislation. A first technical line of the border line from the Belgian data has been proposed to the French authorities and is being analysed. The pandemic period, among other things, has slowed down this technical work. Joint technical work is under way within the framework of the precise definition of the border in the province of Luxembourg and in the province of Namur. The conclusion of the said work will provide sufficient clarity on the nature of the problems to be solved by a standing committee. Meanwhile, the management of border terminals is not lost sight of. Specific problems can still be solved by an ad hoc approach, as in the recent case of a citizen moving from a border pillar to Erquelinnes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u21	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your response. As things progress slowly, it would be interesting to put double bites in order to achieve concrete results. I have no doubt for a moment that you will make every effort to do so, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u22	The Secretary of State, in his concluding observations, the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination (CERD) called on Belgium to provide, within one year (by 29 April 2022), information on the implementation of two recommendations on which I would like to hear you. According to my information, the CERD secretariat has not yet received the interim report of the follow-up by Belgium. In a first recommendation, CERD called on Belgium to develop tools that would enable it to obtain an overview of the composition of its population, particularly with regard to mother tongues and commonly spoken languages. It states explicitly that: "The State party should provide information on any information on ancestry or national or ethnic origin arising from social surveys, as well as on mother tongues, commonly spoken languages or any other indicator of ethnic diversity. The data should be quantified and provide a qualitative description of the ethnic characteristics of the population collected on a voluntary and anonymous basis and on the basis of the principle of self-identification." In a second recommendation, CERD called on Belgium to adopt the necessary measures, in consultation with civil society, to bring the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights (IFDH) fully into line with the Paris Principles. CERD also recommended that Belgium entrust IFDH with the mandate to receive and deal with individual complaints, including cases of linguistic discrimination against minorities. Mr Secretary of State, how soon does Belgium intend to respond to the CERD recommendations? In particular, what follow-up does our country intend to follow up on the two recommendations mentioned above?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u23	Mr President, the issue of combating racial discrimination is a priority for Belgium. Following the constructive dialogue between Belgium and the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination issued its concluding observations on 21 May 2021 and invited our country to provide, within one year, information on the follow-up to the recommendations considered by the Committee as priorities. In the meantime, our country has responded to this Committee. In general, Belgium strives to comply with the deadlines imposed by bodies such as the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination. With regard to the follow-up that our country has reserved or intends to reserve to the recommendations made by the Committee, I ask you to address these questions to the Secretary of State for Gender Equality, Equal Opportunities and Diversity for the recommendation on data collection and to the Minister of Justice for the recommendation on the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u24	Mr President, I thank the Secretary of State for his very "secretary" response. So I'll go check with the ministers he appoints. I am pleased that Belgium has responded even though I am rather frustrated not to know what it has answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u25	I don't know if Mr. Arens is going to ask his question in Walloon!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u26	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I will not hurt you by asking my question in Luxembourg, even if it concerns my region directly: the south of the province of Luxembourg. In addition, I recently tabled in the House a book written by a former bishop of Arlon - Jean-Marie Triffaux - who speaks outright of us as a "forgotten community". That is why we believe that the signing of this Charter of Languages is fundamental. I hope, therefore, that you will be able to do your utmost to sign it before the end of the legislature. So I'll be very happy to listen to you. Then I'll reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u27	Mr President, Mr Arens, on the question of Belgium's non-ratification of the European Charter for Minority Languages, I can tell you that the working group on mixed treaties has decided on the mixed nature of this Treaty. The Council of Europe accepted the signature by Belgium without the Brussels-Capital Region in 2003. The Brussels-Capital Region did not have jurisdiction over language legislation. Full powers for signing the Charter have been granted by the French-speaking Community, the German-speaking Community and the Walloon Region. Only the Flemish Community has not given full power. In order to establish Belgium's position in this dossier, an ad hoc meeting of the Working Party on Joint Treaties was held on 22 August 2011. At that meeting, the Flemish Community indicated that, for political reasons, the Flemish Authority was not prepared to grant full powers for signature. There is a fear that the dynamics of the Charter will put pressure on language legislation. Since this ad hoc meeting, the dossier has not been put on the agenda of the Working Party on Joint Treaties.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answer. Could you put the signing of this Charter on the agenda because, if some in this country do not agree with the signing of this Charter, there are others who are calling for it. I really wish that, as soon as possible, we could move forward on this issue and see this signature come to fruition. For your information, the Walloon Region has already recognized my municipality as a commune that is doing everything possible to protect and promote the Luxembourg language and culture which, until 50 years ago, was our mother tongue and our culture. Today, I really urge you to act so that this signature takes place as soon as possible, in any case by the entities that are ready to sign. Thank you for your follow-up on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u29	[[Prime Minister, the conclusions of Mrs Bachelet's visit to Xinjiang have been strongly criticized by human rights defenders, as 1. she seems to accept Beijing's explanation of massive internment, forced sterilization and separation of children as a legitimate response to terrorism and religious extremism; 2. she seemed to accept the assurances of the PRC that the system of vocational training centres had been abandoned, without insisting on independent certification of this claim, and without making any visible efforts to examine other forms of mass incarceration or the application of forced labour on a large scale; 3. she praised the Chinese government's legislative reforms on gender equality, without recognizing the massive forced sterilization of ethnic minority women in the Uighur region; 4. she admitted that she expected to visit a vocational training centre, but that she learned that he had been transformed into a school - which means that the visit was staged by Beijing; 5. She did not insist on meeting prisoners of conscience such as Ilham Tohti, or on obtaining reliable information on where they are or on the fate of the Uighurs and other minorities who have disappeared. Ms. Bachelet used the VOCID restrictions to excuse OHCHR's inability to obtain meaningful access.]] At no time did it refer to the determination of genocide by legislatures and governments around the world, or to the widely reported leaks that attributed persecution directly to Beijing. How did the Belgian government react to this failure to defend the rights of the Uighurs in China? Did you agree with the German Foreign Minister that the trip to China did not allow an independent assessment of the situation? Do you also request a publication "as soon as possible" of the announced report on the situation of human rights in Xinjiang, including the conclusions of the "remote monitoring"? Will you intervene with the Secretary-General of the United Nations to address these concerns? Mrs Bachelet's term of office ending in September this year, will you plead with the Secretary-General for her non-renewal to the head of the Office of the High Commissioner?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I share your concern about the human rights situation in Xinjiang. Since June 2021, this situation has been systematically discussed in bilateral contacts with China, both in Beijing and in Brussels. This also happened at the highest level, when the Prime Minister addressed the human rights situation in Xinjiang at the end of 2021 during his interview with his Chinese homologist. As you know, Belgium is seeking a strong and united position at EU level with regard to the human rights situation in China, including the situation in Xinjiang. Our country also indicated this in relevant multilateral fora, both at EU level and with like-minded countries. Belgium has taken note of the recent visit by the High Commissioner for Human Rights to China, including Xinjiang. Like other like-minded countries, Belgium has regularly called on China in recent years to provide independent experts from the United Nations, including the High Commissioner for Human Rights, with meaningful and unlimited access to the region. As you know, the High Commissioner's visit from 23 to 28 May was not intended as a fact-finding mission, but was intended to engage China on human rights issues, including the topics "business and human rights", "technology surveillance", "judicial proceedings in criminal cases", "counter-terrorism" and "women's rights". Unfortunately, the visit was not convincing either in substance or in form. The stay in Xinjiang lasted two days. As for the modalities such as the health bubble and the usual reservations as to the authenticity of the reception by the local population, there is no sign of significant or unimpeded access. In addition, the visit allowed the Chinese authorities to highlight their human rights narrative. The risk of instrumentalization identified prior to the mission is therefore very real. I can assure you that Belgium will continue to give close consideration to the situation and to the follow-up to the High Commissioner's visit. Furthermore, our country will continue to stress the need for the earliest possible publication of the report of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights on the human rights situation in Xinjiang.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u31	Mr Secretary of State, thank you very much for your answer. We are in fact accustomed to diplomatic responses, but this clearly identifies the risk of instrumentalization and the threat of discrediting the human rights protection system within the United Nations. This is a missed opportunity, particularly serious for the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. Indeed, it could have taken the opportunity to speak orally and relay the very serious concerns of the international community. We know how committed this Parliament has been to the Uighur minority. Instead, we have heard the praise of the reform policies undertaken by the Chinese government, for example in terms of gender equality, even as we are witnessing a campaign of massive sterilization of women and an ultra-repressive campaign of internment of this Uighur minority, solely because of its ethnicity and its Muslim religion. It seems to me very serious that this High Representative did not finally meet prisoners detained for crime of opinion such as Ilham Tohti, or the victims of these internment and forced labour camps. So I really agree with your observation: this visit was not convincing either in substance or in form. Once again, I wholeheartedly plead for meaningful access to the UN expert region – at some point, we still need to shed light on what is happening in Xinjiang – but also for the earliest possible publication of the announced report on the human rights situation in Xinjiang.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u32	Indeed, I welcome your reply and the fact that you have shown a sufficiently critical sense of the High Commissioner's visit to the Chinese province of Xinjiang. This visit has caused a great deal of consternation, especially among the associations dealing with human rights in Xinjiang and the Uighurs. The visit has created many expectations, but in the end it has been very disappointing, as you say, both in terms of form and content and in terms of the Chinese' abuse of human rights policy. We must now wait for the report and give the benefit of the doubt. Michelle Bachelet will also know that she will be weighed on that. In that sense, leave the door open. We will read the report with great attention. Of course, we should not permanently push China into the corner. The country is a partner in certain areas, but also sometimes a competitor and a system rival. That becomes more and more clear when we look at the Uighurs, Hong Kong and Taiwan. We will be sufficiently vigilant in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u33	Mr Secretary of State, there has also been threatening language and war rhetoric in Taiwan, both on the part of the United States and on the part of China. On 30 May 2022, China entered Taiwanese airspace with 30 military aircraft, two thirds of which were fighters. Last year China entered Taiwanese airspace no less than 958 times. That happens systematically with fighter planes and reconnaissance planes. A lot of war rhetoric was used. On 10 June, the Chinese Defence Minister warned his American colleague that China would not hesitate to start a war when someone tried to split Taiwan from China. That aggressive language doesn't predict much good. Mr Secretary of State, how does the international community and our government respond to China's increasing threat to Taiwan? How can we ensure a de-escalation? How will the situation be monitored at European level and at NATO?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u34	Mrs Van Hoof, Beijing has for some time been putting pressure on Taipei, in particular by increasing air raids in Taiwan's air defence identification zone. These increasing violations of Taiwanese airspace by Chinese Air Force aircraft, as well as recent statements by the Chinese Ministry of Defence, are worrying. Belgium, in consultation with European and similar partners, continues to monitor the situation with regard to Taiwan and calls for a de-escalation, constructive and peaceful dialogue and confidence-building measures between China and Taiwan. This message is also consistently repeated when the issue is addressed in bilateral contacts. Whether it should strengthen its own air defence capability in response to these threats is a decision of Taiwan.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u35	Mr Secretary of State, your answer was brief but clear. What is happening is indeed worrying. There's got to be de-escalation. This issue needs to be addressed both bilaterally and multilaterally. In this way we can ensure that dialogue is maintained on Taiwan, but also on other issues. However, we must ensure that some results are achieved. After all, China is starting to use power language. That means that it also expects something from our side at that level. So we should not be too careful, but very clear about our positions on human rights. As far as Taiwan is concerned, the status quo must of course be maintained. That is also what the people there want. Changing the situation would only trigger explosiveness.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u36	Question No 55028420C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question. Mr Malik Ben Achour is excused and Question No 55028637C by Mr Christophe Lacroix is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u37	Mr President, I would like to make an incise and ask the secretariat where my question is about what is happening today and the violence in the East. I admit that I am a little embarrassed to plunge myself into the electoral reform process, which is certainly important, but we face very serious violence in the east of the Congo with the attacks of the rebel group M23. I want to be clear that we are also following this very closely. "Mr. Prime Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u38	7. Do the EU and OSCE plan to conduct an on-site election observation mission?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, in response to your questions on preparations for the electoral process in the DRC and on the latest report of the European Network on Central Africa (EurAc), I can confirm that the SPF Foreign Affairs has taken note of this report and its recommendations. A meeting is planned soon between this administration and the authors of the report. In any case, I can assure you already that the main elements highlighted in the EurAc report are the subject of discussions, which our Ambassador in Kinshasa and our European colleagues have been conducting on the spot for several months, both with the Congolese authorities and with civil society organisations. The basic principle for Belgium remains the organisation of free, inclusive and transparent elections in 2023, according to constitutional deadlines. It is important that the electoral process be supported by the people and stakeholders concerned. This is the message that we systematically convey in our contacts with the Congolese authorities, which was repeated during last week's Royal Mission to the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Last year, our Embassy in Kinshasa organised a conference on the participation of Congolese male and female voters in the elections of 2023 in the presence of Congolese political leaders, civil society and the diplomatic community. In addition, numerous contacts were established with Congolese interlocutors prior to the parliamentary discussions on the new electoral law. We are pleased to note that several elements of the draft new electoral law, as approved in committee, are moving in the right direction, in particular as regards measures to increase the participation of female candidates and measures to ensure transparency in the publication of the results. However, there are still several essential steps to be taken, starting with the budgeting of the elections and the publication of an election calendar. The efforts of the Congolese institutions to ensure that the electoral process is credible, transparent, inclusive and peaceful will form the basis for international partners, including Belgium, to accompany that process in good conditions. President Tshisekedi has already indicated that he is open to the observation of the elections by international partners, which is a positive signal. At European Union level, the debate on the priorities for election observation for 2023 is still to take place. Consideration is also being given at European level to the possibilities for monitoring the electoral process and how the possible actions of the different Member States can best be coordinated. This applies to all the political instruments available to the EU, including any statements on the preparation and conduct of the elections. MONUSCO also examines the possibilities of supporting the elections in accordance with the mandate. Belgium stands ready to support the electoral process in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, in which civil society has an important role to play. A reflection exercise has already been initiated to determine how and to what extent we can use the various resources and instruments available from Foreign Affairs and Development Cooperation. This is part of our comprehensive and gradual approach, which will initially focus on working with civil society organisations and civic education projects. Specific attention will be given to projects promoting women's political participation in the electoral process.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u40	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. I was concerned about the situation in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and particularly in North Kivu, because there is obviously a link. This general climate of insecurity in the eastern part of the country and the rise of tribal divisions, violence and hate speech towards certain ethnic groups raise fears of pre- and post-election protests. I think we need to warn them. We have a role to play as Europeans and especially as Belgians, given our history, in the support we have to give to the DRC prior to the 2023 election, to contribute to the pacification of the electoral climate, to mitigate the potentiality of a fraudulent election, but above all to prevent all kinds of violence associated with these elections. We have seen the postponement of the elections in 2016, we must prevent further postponements and, above all, further violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic812x.u41	There was once a delegation of bishops here, complaining that civil society had not been included in the CENI election committee. Then one could already see the sensitivity. The previous elections, from 2016, were postponed. The glitter, which is typical for Congo during the period under Kabila, should not repeat itself in 2023. There were several reasons for the delay at the time: first it was budgeting, then there were practical problems, because there were no voting machines. There was always a reason not to allow the elections to take place. As Mr Cogolati said, the situation in Eastern Congo could indeed be an element in delaying the elections. So we need to be vigilant there. The Constitution must certainly be respected. Congo has a young democracy, so we have to give the Congolese time. But people feel that it is not obvious to organise elections on a regular basis. It calls for a democratic process, including among those in power there, which still comply with the deadline of five years, for example. The Congolese have the right to bring their policy-makers to the elections where they are accountable.
