ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u1	Madam President, Minister, this morning, too, the media spoke about the lack of a social agreement on flexibility to find ready-made answers to corona in the workplace. We are all well aware that due to the sharp increase in the number of infections caused by omikron there is a problem in the workplace, especially in the context of the rules on testing and quarantine. Those rules are relaxed, making it less easy to keep a good finger on the wrist. That is why it was necessary for us to take action in this area. In the old testing and quarantine strategy, this could have resulted in a complete closure of many farms. That is what we do not want at all. In this sense, the new rules on testing and quarantine were therefore necessary, especially in view of omikron, a variant with a different pathology than the delta variant. The Consultative Committee has retained a number of issues. Think of telework with the return day, which also partly reduces the contamination potential. Of course telework is not possible in all companies. Employers must therefore continue to monitor the range of preventive measures, ranging from mouth masks on social distancing to ventilation and air quality. These are all things that, in March 2022, have been the guide for two years to stay safe at work, and they must be respected. However, it remains a very difficult balancing exercise. A lot of people stay home. The problem is that companies are making efforts today to ensure that the day-to-day operation is not compromised. The latter is not easy. Employers can now also use the new testing strategy and vaccination...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u2	Mevrouw Muylle, you've been talking for two minutes. Could you try to close it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u3	What will the social dialogue bring? After all, I have read today that there is no agreement on emergency measures and flexibility in the workplace. How do you see this meeting? What will you do in concrete terms if there are no solutions from the social dialogue? I'd like to hear your emergency scenario, which is your plan of approach to corona in the workplace.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u4	Mr Minister, my question has been overtaken by current events. I refer to the KU Leuven report in collaboration with IDEWE, concluding that the coronavirus is circulating more on the workplace than in the rest of society. Of course, corona is mainly distributed in sectors where people are effectively on the workplace. Education and health care are the most important, but there are also other, e.g. daycare centres, residential care centres, security services and beauty salons. It is stated that the situation there is serious. Can you confirm the findings of the report? How many checks were carried out on compliance with prevention measures in companies? What were the findings? What happens to the conclusions? Are the preventive measures sufficient? Or should there be others? I understand the employers' question. But it becomes difficult when everyone falls out and the one remaining supermarket employee has to load and unload, stand at the cash register, answer the phone and serve the customers. I understand that there is a need for solutions. On the other hand, there is a demand for increased flexibility on the part of employers, with the result that no agreement can be reached. What are you proposing to keep the work on the work floor running while at the same time not completely undermining the protection measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u5	Mr Minister, on the basis of a report by the KU Leuven last Friday, it was announced that in the last two weeks most corona infections have been detected among aviation personnel, relatively twice as many infections as in the entire working population. Professor of Occupational Medicine Lode Godderis said that extra corona measures are needed to provide additional protection for aviation personnel, for example. In the past two weeks there have also been more infections than average among catering staff and in the recreation sector. Minister, I have the same questions as Mr Vanrobaeys. I would like to hear an update on the level of compliance with the obligation to take appropriate preventive measures. To what extent does the social inspection detect infringements thereof? What are the consequences of these infringements? How many checks have been carried out in recent months? How do you evaluate the data? Do you think the obligation is well respected? Do you see any reasons for adjustment in certain sectors, given the increasing number of infections?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u6	Minister, employers are asking for further flexibility in overtime, with a view to increasing overtime and reducing overtime costs. That is nothing new, because that question already exists before the corona pandemic, but corona is once again being used to try to push through their will. In addition, employers want to have the opportunity to employ workers with time-credit and retired workers and ask for deregulation of the use of flexi-jobs, student work and temporary agency work. In addition, employers want temporary unemployed to work, if necessary in flexi-jobs. The unions have already indicated that they are not keen on this further erosion of working conditions. As is often the case, it seems that the patrons want to exploit a crisis once again in order to break down the rights of the working class under the guise of temporary measures. For many years steps have been taken towards deregulation and flexibility, which undermine the quality of workers' working conditions. The physical and mental capacity of the workers is likely to be undermined with more overtime and flexibility. What measures will the government take? What impact do you see on the capacity of employees in the medium and long term?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u7	Minister, there is a more recent report from IDEWE and KU Leuven among others. This shows that it is not worse in a number of sectors than in other sectors, but that there is a high number of infections in all economic sectors. Today, more than ever, the question is to what extent that is still a major problem. We see at the same time that the burden on hospitals is actually not so bad, and this is also relatively new. It is certainly much lower than what has been put forward in the various doom scenarios over the past few weeks. This requires us to question ourselves the hypothesis on which many measures are based, which have a major impact on our economic activity. The question here is how the rules will be monitored and what if they are not complied with, but it is time to review the rules themselves. I hear employers give an anthology of possible measures for greater flexibility, but most of all in view of the continuity of economic activity and I understand them. However, I also understand the workers who say that it must remain workable for them. Now they're facing each other. They don't come to an agreement. In fact, the seeds of this conflict lie in the measures imposed by the government. And it is time to question them, especially in view of the evolution in the field of health taxes. The biggest problem in hospitals today isn't that there's too many recordings. The main problem for continuity in hospitals is that too many staff have to stay at home because they have to take care of their child, which is understandable, because the child has to be at home, not because it is sick, but because the class is closed or because the child care system is closed. We must put this approach into question. The model on which we are blindly staring, namely the number of infections, is gradually colliding with its limits. We see that now in the workplace, where employers and workers collide, when they actually have the same concern, that is, combining the continuity of economic activity with the workability of work. Minister, what measures will you take, taking into account the concerns of employers and employees, to ensure continuity of economic activity? I certainly hope that they share each other's concerns in this respect, because that is what they have to do together. I would ask you, as the representative of the government, which is imposing a lot of measures on our companies and employers, to put these measures out loud, given a number of new findings. For example, the hypothesis is that there is a problem, especially in the contact professions, for a long time no longer. In the most recent report by KU Leuven and IDEWE we read that architects, lawyers, accountants, all sectors, are equally affected by infections, without proportionate consequences for the burden of our care. Without taboos, we must dare to question the measures imposed on employers and workers and to hold an open debate. The problem today is not the number of infections, but rather the restrictions imposed themselves, which make it almost unworkable and impossible for employers and workers to organise their activities in an orderly manner. That's my plea. Minister, what will you do to ensure continuity? Will you do more than just push ahead with the existing measures and at last call into question the models that have been used for two years and are now obsolete? The assumptions on which all the restrictive measures are based are systematically undermined by reality. Would you like to think about that, too? On the basis of what data is the net profit, the robustness of the corona measures at the workplace monitored and measured? Is it being evaluated? Based on what specific data? I'm very interested in that. How often is this review carried out? Is that weekly, monthly, half-yearly or does that not happen systematically in an objective way? Objective also means much more to me than an analysis by a number of virologists of the number of infections. We must also look at the social costs that we pay as a result of the corona approach. These costs go much further than merely the virological costs and the needs and concerns that result from them. I call for a much broader view of the issue so that we can come up with real future-oriented solutions by calling into question the measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u8	Mr President, last night the Group of Ten did not get out of the way of the measures designed to relieve the pressure on staff, since many workers are affected by the corona measures and by omikron. This is a pity, first of all for all those who double-fold to get products finished and distributed in time. If there are no possibilities for more flexible deployment of workers, it will all remain on their necks when many colleagues are absent. We must not forget that in some sectors staff shortages were very severe even before omikron was mentioned. We can only deplore the attitude of the trade unions in this respect, because in emergency situations we must be able to talk about taboos. In sectors such as the food sector, workers and companies are already deeply concerned about the breakdown, but complaints about the trade unions are not making any progress. Open Vld has already argued for a number of emergency measures, such as a more flexible use of job students, the opening of flexi-jobbers by temporarily dropping the four-fifth condition and temporarily lifting the restriction on the sectors, allowing temporary unemployed to work with another employer and increasing the activation of job seekers at regional level by leading them to even more open job vacancies where the shortage continues enormously. The employers also put forward a number of proposals, including on the temporary relaxation of the regime around overtime. Minister, what proposals are you looking at? Is there any further consultation between and with the social partners? What's your timing? What will you do if the sectors are in difficulty because of the many absentees? Consumers, patients, caregivers and the economy in general must not be the victims and actions are absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. First of all, I would like to offer you my best wishes for the new year. My best wishes to everyone. The questions put show the importance of this issue, which is taken very seriously by the government. First of all, I would like to remind you that ensuring the health and safety of workers is the top priority of the government. The report on the monitoring of corona infections by sector shows an increase in the incidence among workers. That is why, in consultation with the High Council for Prevention and Protection at Work, we are working on a KB on specific prevention measures at work in the event of an epidemic or pandemic. It will set out the specific preventive measures needed to ensure that workers can continue to work in a safe and healthy working environment in the context of an epidemic and, in particular, COOVID-19. These preventive measures may vary depending on the severity of the epidemic emergency in the company and society. Three phases will be planned: a green phase that will be used to control the spread of an infectious agent in the company; an orange phase that will also be used to limit the spread of an infectious agent, e.g. as part of a cluster; a red phase that will be used to contain a widespread epidemic emergency by avoiding as much as possible the confinement or closure of the company. These different phases can be activated within a sector of activity but also within a particular company. The Council of State has just delivered an opinion on the preliminary draft royal decree. It is analysed so that the royal decree can be adopted quickly. In addition, as you know, all inspection services are responsible for monitoring and, above all, enforcing preventive measures related to covid-19, including the partial obligation to telework. As a specific question is asked about the number of checks and the result of them, I will answer them later in this committee. As far as quarantine policy and testing rules are concerned, as you know, the situation is seriously analysed by experts, health ministers and the Corona police station. On the basis of these analyses, the Interministerial Conference on Health and the Codeco adopt, evaluate and possibly modify the quarantine rules. The health of workers and citizens is one of the priorities. Of course, while it is primarily up to employers and sectors to develop business continuity plans in the event of a crisis, the government is also very attentive to the continuation of business activity, especially in the most crucial sectors. With administrations, we are committed to providing adequate support to businesses and workers. In this regard, at the initiative of the Prime Minister, the Crisis Centre, with the support of the SPF Economy, consulted various federations of sectoral employers to analyse the situation on the ground. This analysis showed that there was no imminent risk, but the situation could nevertheless become a concern in view of the spread of the omicron variant. Indeed, although the situation is very difficult to quantify in the opinion of all, the various federations consulted reported a high rate of absenteeism ranging from 10 to 30%. At administrative level, no data are yet available to verify these figures. So we can neither confirm nor refute them. As a reminder, the social inspection is not competent to verify compliance with quarantine or testing requirements. In order to remedy this situation, we have asked the RSZ to set up a follow-up of the absences by sector in cooperation with the social secretariats and the Employment Office. This monitoring will be available in the coming days. In this context, a number of requests were made by sectoral employers' organisations. As far as measures relating to the organization of work are concerned, I would like to organize the debate within the Group of Ten in order to ensure social dialogue. The aim is to take temporary and urgent measures for firms and sectors facing a shortage of workers. As you know, the discussions between the social partners have not yet produced any results, but contacts will be established with both sides in the next few hours. I would remind you that flexibility mechanisms already exist and that they can be activated. I am thinking of student work, overtime, or interims. At the same time, the government has decided to re-introduce a number of measures to ensure the organisation of work in the health and education sectors. I shall shortly be presenting and defending a draft law on this matter in this committee. As far as Mr Anseew's question is concerned, work is under way on a barometer. So we are working on this barometer or a step-by-step plan in the context of the pandemic. Of course, it will take into account some of the elements that you have mentioned. The various indicators, not only epidemiologically but also in other areas, such as mental well-being and business continuity, are now being discussed within the framework of the roadmap to be presented in the Friday Consultation Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u10	Minister, I would like to respond briefly to three points. First of all, for the whole preventive section you come up with a kind of barometer with a color-gradation green-orange-red, which is a good approach to being able to switch gradually. I therefore give my full support to this. Secondly, you say that the government is holding its finger on the pressing situation on the ground. The situation is serious, but it is not yet dramatic. That's what I hear you explain. It's about 10 % to 30 %. However, these are figures. We are getting a lot of signals from certain regions today from companies with three employees, one of which is infected. The young workers have not yet received a booster shot. The rest must be quarantined. The case is closed. Figures indicate something, but reality in the workplace is often different. That is why it is good to keep the focus very focused on sectors but also on small businesses and self-employed people. Thirdly, for flexibility, it is important that we come out with a package of measures. I know that the budget and the law on various provisions include a number of decisions which the government will now implement. However, with the social partners another exercise will be needed to do more in the emergency situation we are in today. Minister, I am counting on you to make the necessary efforts in this area too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u11	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. In addition, I hear you say that the figures of absenteeism are kept more closely so that evolution can be followed. The current situation is serious, as Mrs Muylle said, but not yet dramatic. Social dialogue is, of course, continuing, but for sectors and companies where absenteeism is dramatic, additional measures can always be considered at sectoral and company level to deal with this. We can further support this approach. It is true that the hospital occupation is fortunately not so high at the moment. For this reason, the Consultation Committee also relaxed the quarantine rules. That will be reviewed over and over again. However, all this does not mean that workers should simply be at home for the care of their children when the childcare or classroom is closed. A parent can hardly tell his child that he will return home after the shift. Solutions have to be found for this. If we work together, we'll be able to catch all of that, and that's how we're going to get through this period.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u12	Mr Minister, I too can only welcome the barometer, which will be introduced by a royal decree. You say that you will answer the questions about the checks in response to another question. That surprises me, as Mr Vanrobaeys has explicitly asked for it. I wonder in answer to which question and to whom you will give that answer. I think we are currently dealing with a difficult but important balance of caution. The omicron variant is milder. Hospital figures remain stable, of course, because restrictive measures are still in place in our society. It is a difficult balance to constantly give answers to this, to monitor it, so that the economy continues to run. However, we must not go too lightly on the figures. The omicron variant is milder, but it is also a very important fact that the different measures in force also ensure that this variant does not spread like wildfire. I repeat that I do not quite understand what you have said about the figures. The social inspection will be asked explicitly in this round. If you say you'll answer it later, I'd like to know when.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u13	Minister, in a debate on flexibility, I always look back at the past and the way in which I did my job as a trade unionist when we were pushed down our throats like that. So I can see that a lot of unionists are now standing on their backs. I get that. Last year, in the context of the Ipa, we had a lot of discussions about flexibilisation and the like, where Vivaldi clearly drew the employers' card: there was no stockpiling for the workers who were on the frontline during the corona crisis, but flexibilisation was. At the moment that bitter pill is almost swallowed, the employers come back with a mountain of flexibilisation. I can understand that they need help, but an important factor is the workers who have to do so. If we do not pay attention to the fact that these workers will eventually give up and no longer know how to proceed, then the employer is also nowhere. In the end, it is still the employee who takes care of the wealth of employers. I do understand the three steps of the barometer's green, orange, red and social measures designed to protect workers, but I do not hear anything about their impact on the loss of workers' income and how they can be better protected against them. We cannot solve the health crisis without a social response. I will say it very harshly: if we want flexibility, we will have to negotiate with the trade unions. That was always the basis of the social dialogue. I am indeed opposed to flexibilisation, but the trade unions must make that choice for their own. However, there must be something about this for the workers, but I have heard nothing about it in the last two and a half years that I have been in Parliament. I hear only talk about flexibility, but nothing about the other side.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u14	Minister, you gave a detailed answer, but you had a lot of speaking time left. At the same time, you remained very vague on a number of important points. As you had speaking time left, you could have made this more specific. For example, you announce a KB with a number of temporary measures. I am very curious to see what these measures could be and what time limits they can be taken. The concern of employers and employees to continue working in full continuity is already there today, not just next week or within 2 weeks. I hope that by then it will have calmed down a little bit and that the concern has been removed. It is therefore important to know what temporary measures you want to take and within what time frame. A number of things you didn't mention. One of the questions is whether temporary unemployed can be used more easily in sectors or companies where this is necessary. I have been advocating this for a year and a half, but in vain with this government. Still, I keep hammering on it. You remain vague on that too. The essence of the story is, of course, whether this government is prepared to question the soundness of the many restrictive measures in the workplace in depth at last, in an open and transparent way, based on objective data. Until today, it doesn't. You refer to the barometer that should be on the Consultation Committee on Friday. I hope that it is indeed an adequate answer to this question, and that it will not be a barometer in which we continue to shuffle and mess around in the margins with the same hypotheses of the last two years, which have long been overtaken by reality. This would mean that you, as a federal government, continue to mop up the corona approach with the tap open when it comes to ensuring the continuity of the economic activities of our companies. It would mean that after 2 years you will still not get beyond the fight against symptom, while it is becoming increasingly clear that the cause of the problems in the workplace is not so much the number of infections, but the measures imposed by the federal government, which make it increasingly difficult, and in some places even impossible, to continue to work even further, while there is no reason from a health point of view to stop working. I therefore call for the overall social cost to be taken into account. After all, it is a lot more than people who get sick and unfortunately also die. It is about social costs that manifest themselves in everyone's social life, in our economic fabric, in the personal sphere, when it comes to mental well-being. Mr. Secretary, you're nodding in the affirmative. I'm very happy about that. In the last two years, however, the current government has not shown this. So I hope that you are really aware of that and that you can make a difference with the barometer, no matter what the barometer will look like. I'm gonna take another shot at the arm. I don't have a lot of faith in it. What I am now setting out is a conclusion that could have been drawn three, four or six months ago. However, I note and derive from a number of replies and replies from Members that the government continues to stick stubbornly to the old outdated models. People keep hammering on being careful and paying attention. Of course, we should not be rash and reckless. However, we must not be afraid of our own shadow either. We urgently need to objectivate a number of things without taboos and with an open vision so that we can continue our lives in a decent manner, both in private and professional terms, and to a large extent re-record.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u15	Minister, would you like to bring further elements of a response?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u16	Mrs Willaert, I will provide the tables with, among other things, the various control statistics. It might be easier.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u17	Minister, this question is a little less urgent, but no less important. In the new report of the Court of Auditors on the annual holiday for workers published in autumn, we read that the holiday greenhouses for workers are facing difficult years. They finance their operating costs with the proceeds of invested funds, but in recent years these revenues have fallen sharply. At the same time, the number of periods treated has increased sharply. For example, there are not only periods treated as a result of illness, but also all kinds of periods treated as a result of temporary unemployment during the corona crisis. According to your policy paper this year, you will pay EUR 154 million for next year, of which EUR 107 million for the workers' system and EUR 47 million for the servants' system. In 2021, it amounted to EUR 190 million of support, distributed equally among workers and servants. Does the much greater support for the workers' system this year, compared with previous years, have to do with the financially difficult situation of the workers' holiday greenhouses? Or is there another reason for that? In what way do you intend to respond to the precarious financial situation of the holiday homes for the workers? Do you, for example, intend to abolish these greenhouses and introduce regulations for workers such as those in place for servants? The employer then pays the holiday allowance directly to the right holders. Do you also see the benefits of simplifying the system of annual leave, linking the right to the payment of statutory leave to the current year instead of the previous year? This scheme applies in almost all other European countries and involves less administration and less management costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u18	Thank you, Mr Anseuw, for an important question. At the end of 2020, 551 million euros of reserves were available for the workers' annual leave scheme. That was more than enough to cope with normal fluctuations in the economic situation. In order to safeguard the vacation rights of workers faced by the corona pandemic with a closure of their sector, it was decided to make temporary unemployment for reasons of force majeure exceptionally equal to working days. This equivalence resulted in additional costs of EUR 492 million in 2021 for holidays for the year 2020 and, according to the latest estimates, EUR 257 million in 2022. It was decided that the federal government would bear part of the costs, namely EUR 93.5 million for 2021 and EUR 107.1 million for 2022. Interventions were also provided for the annual leave scheme of the servants. It is therefore too easy to say that a transfer to the servants' system would provide a solution. On the contrary, without the intervention of the reserves of the system annual holiday workers, employers should have borne the full costs themselves. The fact that the interventions for the workers in 2022 are relatively higher than for the servants results from the fact that the affected sectors mainly employ workers in 2022. The system of annual leave of the workers has made a very important contribution to safeguarding workers' holiday rights, at the expense of their own financial capacity. The federal government has partly intervened in the costs. The social partners represented in the National Labour Council and in the RJV Management Committee have requested that discussions continue in consultation. In addition, the social partners will consult and make proposals to safeguard the health of the system in the future. The system of annual leave for workers has been in balance for 20 years. The health crisis should not be a reason to consider its abolition. Workers in the catering and temporary employment sectors in particular have been guaranteed the automatic payment of holiday allowances in spite of the pandemic. Employers have also benefited financially since they did not have to apply for financial compensation. The abolition of holiday funds is therefore not on the agenda. We can see that the social partners have unanimously asked the government to ensure the return to the financial equilibrium of the RJV. I will examine, together with the social partners and the administration, how further steps can be taken in the harmonization of the holiday system of workers and servants. There is no evidence that the linking of duties to the current year would lead to administrative simplification and a reduction in management costs. The social partners have recently reappeared, in Opinion No. 2268 of the NAR, requested to maintain the current system. As the NAR has already done in its Opinion No. In addition, the system offers a number of advantages, namely an indisputable calculation basis and definitive verifiable and reliable data used by employers, holiday funds, employees and social secretariats.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u19	Minister, this is a mix of points of discussion. Firstly, the question of the extent to which corona is an exceptional fact with regard to the cost and operation of holiday greenhouses for workers. I conclude from your answer that the impact on this is significant. This does not, of course, alter the fact that it is always good to examine the structural functioning of the holiday greenhouses. That is also what the Court of Auditors has done. We can't just shove that exercise aside. My concern is that the payment of holiday money can continue in an orderly manner for workers. Let's get that straight. You say that there is no evidence that simplifying the annual holiday system, linking the right to holiday and its payment to the current year instead of the previous year, will lead to less administration and less management costs. You've obviously investigated that. Could you explain that a little bit more? That is the subject of another question. I am very transparent about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u20	Minister, this issue was tabled in December, but the issue of purchasing power is becoming increasingly important. A national demonstration took place in early December. The workers went down the street to express their concern about their purchasing power. The Corona premium negotiated in the AIP was part of the solution, even if it is not sufficient. I asked you about this in September, with the promise to come back to you. Minister, can you provide us with an update on the situation with regard to the granting of corona premiums in companies? How many companies have accepted the bonus system? What is the average net amount allocated for full-time work? Which are the sectors in which the premium is most widely granted? It is feared that in some companies the premium will be denied to workers despite good profits. What do you intend to do to support workers in this situation? Do you confirm that wage indexation will in no way be called into question? This issue is further reinforced by recent statements by the various employers' organisations. Finally, what other measures do you envisage to support the purchasing power of workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u21	Mr Minister, I have already asked you a number of questions at the plenary session on 9 December about persistent inflation. You stated at that time that you and the government have taken various measures to support the economy and help the people, such as the refinancing of the Gas and Electricity Fund and the extension of the social tariffs for electricity and gas. That, however, means that the vast majority of the working people in this country do not really benefit, while prices are rising very sharply for them too. Everything has become more expensive. The low interest rates on savings books mean that the purchasing power of our people is greatly weakened. In doing so, wages in our country are rising faster than in neighbouring countries due to automatic wage indexation. This threatens to lead to a loss of competitiveness for our companies. We must also be concerned about this. After all, that's about jobs. At the same time, there are more and more signs from different angles that our labour market needs to be reformed as a matter of urgency. However, these signals are not new. When will there finally be structural solutions, including in the area of labour market policy, in the context of the purchasing power of our people and in the context of the safeguarding of jobs in this country, instead of patchwork and tapping with measures to close a gap here and there? In what way do you intend to reduce the structural pressure on our wages? Is there going to be a reduction in the burden on labour so that net wages can rise without gross wage costs rising? If you do not want to do this, how do you intend to ensure that the people who save, work and undertake in this country are rewarded for what they do? In what way will you ensure that jobs do not disappear abroad? The first jobs that would disappear if the competitiveness of our companies were compromised are, of course, the jobs of the most vulnerable in our labour market.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u22	Mr Minister, we are in a still unstable economic environment and Belgian companies expect growth to decline in the first half of 2022 due to the increase in various costs. Despite this, 50% of them expect to increase their investments in the coming months. In order to secure these investments, the employer's bank goes every time to hunt for savings. Once again, he seeks here to reduce what he still considers to be the main cost: the price of labour. It therefore defends its conviction that only by abolishing, temporarily blocking or reforming automatic wage indexation will it be possible to save the competitiveness of companies. Workers are again considered to be an adjustable variable, a data that can be remodelled according to market fluctuations. It does not matter that many families struggle to support themselves. It is not important to respect an interprofessional agreement which has guaranteed an increase in wages in addition to automatic indexation. Minister, do you maintain that an index jump is not an option? Is wage indexation reform, as proposed by the FEB, on the government's agenda? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u23	Minister, if there is anything we can say about the employers, then they have started the new year well. First they ask for flexibilisation, then they propose an index jump. What a start! For weeks, the patronial organizations have been calling for a new index jump. On Monday 10 January, Voka insisted on a New Year's reception. This organization came up with the idea of a socially modulated index jump, whereby a fixed amount is paid instead of a percentage indexation. Pre-President Conner Rousseau proposed a similar social emergency index. The automatic indexation of wages is an important protection for the purchasing power of the working class in this country. We all agree on that. Even in spite of this important mechanism, many families face rising costs and falling real wages. I think that almost half of the plenary last Thursday dealt with this. An index jump has a major impact on purchasing power, so you have informed my colleague Nadia Moscufo and afterwards to the other colleagues that there is definitely no index jump. However, in response to Voka's question, Prime Minister De Croo stated that, in the long term, if there is a majority in favour, the discussion could be started. Of course, that didn't surprise me. Minister, do you guarantee that there will be no index jump during this term of office? Do you guarantee that the index mechanism will not be eroded in any way, such as a negative adjustment of the basket of goods or an adjustment of the automatic indexation for everyone? Do you confirm that there will be no new fiscal gifts for the large companies related to indexation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your questions on a particularly important subject which, like you, is of great concern to me. As stated in my policy note, inflation is an important challenge that we face. We're not the only ones. This is a widespread situation in a range of countries, in the vast majority of Western countries, sometimes for different reasons. In fact, we can distinguish between what is happening in the United States and what is happening in Europe, particularly in our own country, with inflation being further increased by the explosion of energy costs. As I have already made very clear, and I am pleased that others have done so later, the government will not be affected by wage indexation. So there will be no index jump. I wish to reaffirm this today in a clear and solemn manner before you. This mechanism is indeed fundamental to protect the purchasing power of workers and social beneficiaries, but, in the face of inflation, other measures are under discussion at government level, in particular with regard to the explosion of energy costs, which has a particular impact in Belgium on the general inflation rate. These discussions are taking place for the time being and will continue in the coming hours with, I hope, a proposal that will be made to you as soon as possible and that will be able to provide a response to this energy crisis, which is becoming a social crisis for a large part of the population. First of all, there are the most vulnerable people. As you pointed out, Mr Anseeuw, we have taken steps, in particular with regard to the social tariff, its enlargement and extension, and through the granting of an energy check for its beneficiaries, this million families who now benefit from the extended social tariff. But we must go even further and take into account a part of the population which, without being poor, is not rich either and is particularly affected by the explosion of these energy costs. Mrs Cornet, with regard to your specific questions on the granting of the Corona premium, I will unfortunately not be able to answer you precisely today, because, as you know, many sectors and companies have shown interest. They have even entered into a logic of granting this Corona bonus. But, as you also know, we have decided to allow the social partners, until 31 March 2022, the possibility of granting this premium. I think it was important to leave further time for sectoral and business negotiations and, I hope, for this premium to be granted. It is therefore appropriate to wait until that date for precise and definitive information from the ONSS and the issuing companies. Mr Anseuw, I will try to reassure you. The indexation of wages also covers the middle class. The index applies effectively to all wages. Other types of income are also generally indexed, e.g. rents. I can also confirm that social and fiscal adjustments are being prepared by Ministers Vandenbroucke and Van Peteghem to protect and strengthen the purchasing power of the workers and the middle class.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear - and this is not the first time you have reaffirmed it, and I welcome it - that the government will not be affected by wage indexation. This is an extremely important aspect for the ecologist family. There will be no index jump, and I find this quite normal, since indexation is already taken into account when, under the 1996 law, Belgian wages are compared with those of our neighbours. You tell me you don't have any information on the implementation of the Corona bonus. This was precisely the interest of the intermediate state of affairs. I can understand that you did not have information in September, but I would still have liked to have some information at this stage. I repeat that if you have an intermediate point, we can exchange it in writing if it is acceptable to you. I think it's really interesting to know where we are today, two and a half months from the deadline. Finally, Minister, you are not answering my question as to what you are planning to do to support workers working in companies that make profits but are considering refusing the Corona bonus. I think that this is a particular attention that we can have, and the intermediate point that I am asking you is really in line with this logic. I thank you already for the documents that you will send me in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u26	Minister, you have tried to reassure me. You failed to do so, but you have given us some clarity. You say quite clearly what you will not do. About what you would do, you remain very vague. Actually, you're saying you won't do anything. To my question what message you have for who works, saves, or takes action in this country, you do not answer to the indexation. But that does not solve the payment problems, for example with regard to the energy bill or the shopping cart. So that's a very sad answer. Then I can only conclude that anyone who works, saves, or does something in this country should not rely on the De Croo government, while we are talking about the vast majority of the people. It is very clear who you are driving for; it is also very clear who you are not driving with this government. That is particularly regrettable, because you are abandoning those people who guarantee and create prosperity in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answer. As you said, inflation is an important challenge that we have to face. It is true that at a time when many families are facing the ever-increasing cost of energy and the consequences of falling wages for many months, it is unthinkable today to bring them the weight of economic decline. In the PS group, we are very pleased to hear that the government will not be affected by wage indexation. I also think that the index jump, as you said in your speech, has a direct impact on the purchasing power of citizens. In the current context, this would have a negative impact on small and medium-sized enterprises that depend on household consumption. I also recalled that wage indexation helps to maintain purchasing power but also changes in the cost of living. It's a protection against rising prices. Finally, this indexation mechanism contributes to the financing of our social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u28	Minister, you ask me if I am reassured, but like Mr Anseeeuw I am not at all. I can sometimes no longer follow which direction this government is heading, to the left, to the right, to the back or to the front. Listen to your statements. Today you say that we must move forward in the context of energy aid. I really don't follow anymore. During your election campaign, you will pay 6 % VAT for energy. Then you stay at 21 %. Then there will be a discussion and you will say that this VAT reduction is priceless. Then you say in the press: still 6%. Then there'll be a vote. Then it's 21 % again. Three days later, you say here again that we need to boost energy aid and see how we can adapt this, which I think is quite right. Your statement that the government will not touch automatic wage indexation therefore gives me no confidence. Of course, this index is not perfect, but it is important that there is. The so-called health index does not take into account certain elements such as fuel, but it is an important safety net to protect people's purchasing power. We therefore call for more indexation in order to better protect people and workers in the current crisis. We hope that this will continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u29	In 2020, a total of 274 million tonnes of goods were transported by road, both in Belgium and abroad, by lorries registered in Belgium and tractors with a payload of at least 1 tonne. On 1 August 2021, Belgium had 946.427 vehicles used for the carriage of goods by road. However, it seems as if truck drivers only get in the news when an accident occurs. So it's high time they were in the sun for once. Because let's be honest, the truck drivers were also at the working class heroes that kept the country straight during the crisis. Truckers are an indispensable link throughout our economic system. They make sure that goods are delivered and delivered, that the containers from the ports come to their destination, that Jan can do his shopping with the hat in the supermarket. Unfortunately, the sector is plagued by ailments, such as social dumping or unsafe or uncomfortable resting places. In 2016, a plan for fair competition (PEC) in the transport sector was concluded to combat illegal employment, social fraud and social dumping in the sector. What are the main results of this so far? How do you evaluate the PEC? In the light of the already fifth corona wave and the increasing number of infections, what is the situation with regard to compliance with the corona measures in the sector? Do you have any figures? About the unsafe, uncomfortable parkings, the trade union BTB has been publishing a black book since 2007, which contains a number of suggestions. Have you been through this black book? If so, how can you contribute to a solution to the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u30	Mr Colebunders, both the fair competition plan, PEC, and the cooperation agreement concluded on 3 February 2016 implementing this PEC will be reviewed at least every two years. On the initiative of the SIOD, the last evaluation was carried out on 11 March 2021. With regard to the results of the inspection services, I will give you an overview of the number of positive closed investigations in relation to the total number of closed investigations in the transport sector for the period 2018-2021. Tables are also available for a more detailed overview of each service. As regards compliance with the corona measures, the joint inspections carried out between July 2020 and December 2021 covered 1,099 employers, 204,101 employees and 442 self-employed persons. For a more detailed overview, please refer to the table in the annex. The social inspection services also conduct individual investigations. A total of 3,523 individual studies were carried out between July 2020 and December 2021. For more details on these studies and the results, please refer to the table in Annex 3. The BTB Blackbook has been examined by the social inspection services. The BTB proposes a number of solutions, including providing more places for truck drivers, securing truck parking areas by installing cameras, an identification system for truck zones, increasing the comfort of drivers in parking spaces, a healthy meal at a reasonable price for drivers in road restaurants or shops, strengthening highway police and increasing the number of patrols. I have no authority on this issue, but I can call on my fellow ministers to act together.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u31	Minister, I am pleased that attention is finally being paid to social dumping. This is organized social fraud that disrupts the whole sector and makes it more difficult for drivers to work and, of course, makes crooked entrepreneurs richer. I am glad that we will get the table of checks carried out, but everything stands or falls with control, that is clear. That's what people in the unions tell us, we've been giving serious information over the last few weeks. There have been blows and under pressure from the black books and trade union actions there have been important convictions, but often too little, too late. The chairman of the BTB, Frank Moreels, says in his New Year's message that those who organise social dumping are not controlled fast enough. How could it be otherwise, the inspection services are undermanned. So there's only one message: more inspectors, and fast. It could also be our wish for 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u32	Madam President, Minister, this is the second part of the questions that were tabled following the national demonstration on the common front on 6 December, at which the workers went down the street to call for their concern, particularly about trade union freedom. They expressed concern about the freedom of trade unions to negotiate freely under the 1996 Act, but also about the freedom to take action. Recent episodes of conviction by the Liège Court of Appeal of trade unionists of the FGTB are cause for concern about the reduction of trade union freedoms. Minister, what guarantees can you give to unions as to their freedom of action? How can freedom of trade union action be guaranteed in the current social context? How can freedom of trade union bargaining be improved? What, in your opinion, are the elements to be put on the table to address calmly the next PIA cycle?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u33	Madam President, honourable Member, I hear and share the concerns expressed about freedom of association. However, it should be recalled that the recent convictions at the Liège Court of Appeal were based on Article 406 of the Criminal Code penalizing the wicked obstacle to movement. As you know, the Criminal Code falls under the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice. Its application and interpretation are the responsibility of the judiciary. You also know that as a member of the executive, it is my principle never to comment on a court decision. It should also be recalled that Belgium fully recognizes the right to strike with very few legal restrictions. No change has recently been made to this right, which I welcome, of course. As is the case with other fundamental rights, it is also clear that restrictions on the right to strike must be exceptional, provided by law, necessary in a democratic society to protect the rights and freedoms of others and, of course, proportionate. This must be considered by the judge on a case-by-case basis. Furthermore, as you know, this government is anxious to give social dialogue as many opportunities as possible and to make use of the agreements reached between the social partners. I think I can say that it has demonstrated this since it came into force. Thus, with regard to the preparation of the next IPA negotiations, and although the subject may seem premature, we will ensure that the discussions can take place in complete serenity. I believe that this committee will have a debate in the coming weeks following a petition from the trade union organisations on the common front. I am pleased that this debate can take place in this democratic forum following a democratic process of popular consultation itself, since on the basis of a petition. But at this stage, I also think it is important that this debate be held in this committee, with you, ladies and gentlemen, before the government and I take a position. Do not interfere at this stage is also a guarantee of serenity and good conduct of the debates that you will have in a few weeks
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand that you reaffirm the non-reputation of the right to strike and that the restrictions must remain exceptional and proportionate. I fully agree with you on this point. As far as the 1996 Competitiveness Act is concerned, you know that we are in favour of improving it. We saw how the Well-Being Envelope and IPA negotiations telescoped and complicated things. Why not think about decoupling in the negotiation schedule? I think that is one of the things we should be able to discuss. Of course, these discussions will take place, as you said, in the context of this petition submitted by the trade union organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u35	Madam President, Minister, recently at the Brussels hotel Steigenberger, many workers protested against the dismissal of 85 colleagues and the generalisation of subcontracting in the cleaning and catering departments. This phenomenon of outsourcing in the hotel sector is becoming increasingly widespread. Often, laundry, cleaning and even the entire maintenance of the hotel are entrusted to a service provider. The outsourcing of catering activities is also increasing, as is the management of revenue or computer systems. Subcontracting can sometimes go very far, to the transfer of all the hotel activities, including the equipment and staff of the company. This subcontracting, Minister, often does not provide new skills or a better quality of work for staff. But it allows large chains to avoid paying benefits to some of the staff - including bonuses and thirteenth months - or to expose themselves to problems of job penitibility or occupational diseases. Mr Minister, have you ever been able to discuss with the social partners the increasing use of outsourcing in the hotel sector? Are there any avenues to better guide these practices? Could pilot internalisation experiments be conducted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u36	Madam President, Mrs Thémont, thank you for your question. The case of the Steigenberger hotel was the direct reason why the Joint Board of the Hotel Industry (CP 302) put the subject of outsourcing in the hotel industry in its entirety on its agenda at the end of June 2021 for consideration and discussion. However, after the summer break of 2021, sectoral negotiations took place and lasted until mid-December 2021 in this Joint Committee, and the subject of outsourcing was therefore somewhat postponed, but it will be on the CP 302 agenda during this year. The Joint Committees of the sectors concerned, including the cleaning sector, could usefully be invited by CP 302 to participate in this exercise. CP 302 also encourages any intervention by inspection services that may reveal irregularities in subcontracting in the hotel sector. In any case, I thank you for drawing my attention again to this issue, which I will not fail to address again with the social partners. Like you, I call for pilot internalization experiments. On the other hand, all avenues for better management of outsourcing will also be seriously explored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u37	Minister, thank you for agreeing with me. I believe that the outsourcing of cleaning in the hotel sector is a reflection of the inequalities in our society. On the one hand, there is a luxury sector with a relatively easy clientele and on the other hand, a sector that appears almost caricatural because it combines forms of precariousness, discrimination and poverty. The use of subcontracting leads to working conditions similar to modern slavery. "Subcontracting" often rhymes with "underpay", often on the job and not on time, with sometimes infernal rhythms and no prospect of career development. Subcontracting also highlights the priority given by large chains to profit-seeking, in disregard of the quality of work provided by employees. I am pleased that you will remain attentive and that you will address the matter again in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u38	Question No 55023258C by Mr Albert Vicar is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u39	Minister, at the plenary session of 9 December, you stated, in response to the European Commission's desire to introduce the presumption of pay for platform workers, that you fully support European initiatives. Does it mean that you will introduce the presumption of paid employment in that sector? If so, when will the scheme enter into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u40	Mr Minister, in the judgment of 8 December, the Labour Court ruled that the bicycle couriers of Deliveroo are self-employed and are not allowed to drive under the peer-to-peer tax-free status either. The Labour Auditorate has now expressed its opposition to that decision. The Committee believes that bike couriers are bogus self-employed and should be given a contract of employment from the platform company. Of course, bicycle couriers are the biggest victims here, because they remain in uncertainty about an arrangement. During the debate in plenary session on 9 December, I noted that the sometimes divergent rulings of courts were also the result of the ruling on Uber................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In this sense, I have also advocated a speedy legislative adjustment. You replied in line with the European Commission's initiative that you would not wait for the whole European procedure to go through, but that you wanted to take initiatives to provide platform workers with better social protection. This included accidents at work, which is certainly very important for bicycle couriers, and the reversal of the burden of proof. It is assumed that they are employees, unless the employer can prove that they are self-employed. Where are we on the consultation via platformwerk.be? When would the consultation be completed? Can you give us any preliminary findings? By when can we expect concrete initiatives from the government? Could you explain that a little bit more?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u41	We are seriously considering how the work contract should be drafted in the platform economy. Legal certainty implies, of course, that we analyse the issue globally and take account of all the case law in Belgium and other European countries, as well as the initiatives of other countries and the European Commission, which recently launched a draft directive in this area. To realize this, we have posted the website platformwork.be online. On the basis of the initial contributions and testimonies, I made a concrete proposal to the government, which will be submitted to the social partners. The proposal is currently under discussion in the government. The aim is to adapt the law on the nature of the employment relationship discussions in order to provide workers who are structurally active in the platform economy with good working conditions and better social protection. I will not fail to return to you when the discussions within the government have been concluded, which I hope to be able to do in the coming days.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u42	Minister, I would have expected your answer on this to be vague, but I sincerely hope that you will not succumb to the pressure of the liberals and that they will not continue to impose their views on this issue, unlike in other cases such as the wage margin. We ask you to resist the pressure exerted by multinationals such as Deliveroo or Über. It is absolutely not for them to dictate our social legislation. Like the trade unions, we are in favour of a rebuttable presumption of pay. Moreover, we have tabled a legislative proposal on the subject. For us, platform workers must be de facto workers with genuine social protection, a minimum wage and access to the various social rights. This prevents these workers from having to initiate lengthy legal proceedings, with all the risks involved, such as exclusion from the platform. Finally, we ask you to address other aspects of the platform economy vigorously, such as transparency of algorithms, a fair redistribution of the profits of the multinationals involved and a fair payment of taxes. So there is still some work to be done, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased that you have already taken a first step by submitting a proposal for amending the law on employment relations to the social partners and discussing it in the government. However, I have also read the reaction of Minister Clarinval. In this sense, I would like to stress that, for us, the argument that an app company is an employer is very important and fundamental in order to give bike drivers the necessary social protection, a minimum wage and the necessary guarantees of decent work and a decent life. I'm talking to a lot of bike messengers; I ran into them recently in Ghent. They work for 3 to 4 euros per hour. Even if they are independent, that is not an income on which an independent can survive or with which he or she can build social protection. In that sense, I would like to make a warm plea to maintain the rebuttable presumption of employee, unless proven otherwise. That is the only way for me to provide the workers of such multinationals with the proper social protection they deserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u44	Nurses are in respiratory distress. It has been almost a year and a half since the health crisis affected workers and workers in the sector. At the beginning of December we will see what this means in practice. On the evening of Monday 6 December, very strange claims were made at the hospital MontLégia for the strike and demonstration of 7 December. A nurse told us what she had to go through those days. She received dozens of calls from the police, including one at 2:30 a.m. The police came to her and her colleagues several times. They were shining a flashlight through the windows. She felt seriously disturbed in her rest. Something like that goes absolutely too far, not just for her. Countless colleagues have already stopped. Others got burned out. This is a real abuse. On Friday 10 December, a hospital was forced to close its emergency department for at least three days due to a lack of staff. Mr Vandenbroucke threatened to impose sanctions. How do you look at these two situations? What is your answer to the workers and employees involved? What are the consequences for the right to strike? When can hospital staff expect a real improvement in their working conditions? What do you want to commit yourself to?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u45	Social consultation and the right to strike are very important to me. It is therefore important to clarify the procedure here. Ideology and sensation are apparently sometimes more important than the facts. Strike is a fundamental right. This right can only be restricted in a few cases. The health of the population is so important that restrictions can be imposed. In the event of a strike, the law of 19 August 1948 on the performance of general interest in peacetime may be applied. Thirdly, the law provides for the following procedure in the event of strikes in institutions that ensure vital needs. First, it is necessary to consider whether there is sufficient willing staff to ensure the minimum performance. If this is not the case, solutions must be sought at company level through social dialogue between employers and trade unions. If this is not possible, the staff may be appointed by the restricted committee set up in the joint committee concerned. Once again, social dialogue is given a role here. If the restricted committee fails to reach an agreement, the Minister may designate persons to be claimed. In practice, after checking the file, the Minister delegates the power of recovery to the governor of the province concerned. It will in turn draw up individual orders for recovery and instruct the local police to transfer them to the workers concerned. The police services are the responsibility of my colleague Annelies Verlinden and I have heard that she has already been questioned about this. My colleague, Minister Vandenbroucke, spoke about this in detail at the end of last year. However, I would like to add that, in addition to the measures that have been taken specifically for care workers, we are also taking more general measures to improve working conditions for all workers. We'll probably come back to it later. This is a better combination of work and private life, penitence funds and so on. These measures will, of course, also apply to the care staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u46	I can't really agree with the idea of letting the police take care of me. Where's the respect? The whole of December we saw strikes and mobilisations of health care personnel. The anger of the care staff is at present far from being reduced. Despite your statements, nothing is happening on the ground. The care staff doesn't just cease, you know the reasons all too well. We call on you to change your strategy. Put an end to sanctions policy and re-evaluate the sector. The PVDA therefore presents four concrete proposals. Firstly, an increase in gross wages by 10% for all staff to re- attract qualified personnel who have left the sector. This will also increase low wages above the limit of EUR 14 per hour. Secondly, double wages for weekends and for the night hours that healthcare workers cannot spend with their neighbors, but which they devote to society. Thirdly, recognition as a heavy occupation. This is very important to allow rest from 60 years of age and to put an end to the current situation in which most nurses have to work until the age of 66. Finally, an immediate doubling of current investment in order to recruit additional staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u47	Mr Minister, following the decisions of the last Consultative Committees, new limited measures were taken to prevent the spread of the virus. What support measures will you take in view of the impact of these measures on the activities of certain sectors such as catering, culture or nightlife? Do you not think that you should at least re-implement some of the aid measures that ended on 30 September 2021, such as the freezing of the duration of the right to benefit for young people and the freezing of the degressivity of unemployment benefits for jobseekers? Do you not think that you should provide further support to workers, for example by providing income maintenance during quarantine or childcare after the closure of schools?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u48	As you probably know, following the resumption of the epidemic, the government decided to extend and reactivate a number of aid measures. Temporary unemployment for corona has been extended until 31 March 2022, including in the case of child quarantine. The worker will therefore be able to remain absent from work and continue to receive unemployment benefits if his child is in quarantine or if his class, school or centre closes. Support measures for workers in the cultural sector shall also be activated until 31 March 2022. For the employers in catering, culture and nightlife, I can confirm that Minister Vandenbroucke is working on targeted support measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u49	Minister, it is good that you are extending some measures, but you know that it is less expensive and harmful to implement a genuine anti-corona policy, for example by strengthening testing, maintaining income during quarantine, free self-tests, then closing down the sectors such as nightlife, limiting activities in culture and catering, and closing down classes or whole schools. Despite the surge of omikron and the social emergency resulting from the loss of purchasing power of the working population due to inflation, Vivaldi voted against our measures to combat COVID-19, such as maintaining income during quarantine. You make it seem as if we are suggesting something corny communist, even though this has already been introduced in countries such as the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Finland. So we are not asking for anything new. We therefore call on you once again to introduce new crisis measures, such as those already in force until 31 December 2021, in particular to freeze the duration of the route of youth benefits and to freeze the degressivity of unemployment benefits for job seekers, in order to prevent workers from entering an even more difficult situation than is already the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u50	Minister, I asked Minister Vandenbroucke the same question because I know you are working closely and collaboratively on this. On 2 January, the press reported significant progress in reforming the status of workers in the arts. It could be said that "the drafting of legal texts had begun". Do you confirm this information? I think so. Of course, we welcome the progress of this reform and the drafting of the texts. How has the NTC's opinion been incorporated into these texts? What was the method of work? How will differences of opinion following the release of the WITA note be arbitrated? Furthermore, can you give us some forecasts on the agenda? When, in your opinion, can we hope to start the debate on this reform in this Parliament so that we can organise the work of this first half of 2022? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u51	I thank you, Madam Member, for your questions on this particularly important subject, which is of great interest to me, as to you and others in this committee. Like you again, I looked forward to the views of the NTC on the proposals of the WITA working group. I therefore welcome the fact that on 7 December last the National Labour Council was able to deliver an opinion. As you can see, this opinion is very interesting and includes a large part that is unanimous but slightly divided, particularly on allowances. Workers' representatives generally supported the proposals made, although employers' representatives could not support them. Again with a view to transparency, as we wanted to address this issue from the beginning, and with the WITA working group, we analysed this opinion and organized a meeting with the CNT in order to be able to discuss it. It was also a request from the NTC to be more involved in the work of the WITA working group and I welcome this collaboration and exchange between the working group and the NTC. During this very interesting exchange, the positions were exposed, explained and sometimes nuanced, which I am delighted about. As a result, together with my colleagues, Ministers Vandenbroucke and Clarinval, we worked on drafting the legal and regulatory texts to implement the Working Group's proposals and taking into account the unanimous parts of the NTC's opinion. These texts will of course be discussed within the government, and these discussions are expected to take place in February. I hope to be able to move forward as quickly as possible, first in a phase of consultation with the social partners and the WITA working group, then in a return to the government, and finally in an arrival on the benches of Parliament with this important reform and particularly expected by all the players in the sector. These are the few new elements about this file and the few predictive elements I could give you. I really want to be able to move forward and bring this important reform to a successful conclusion in the course of this semester.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u52	Minister, thank you very much for your answers. Indeed, I feel that there is a real will to move forward, a lot of energy around the construction of these texts and a desire for collaboration and coordination. You said that the text had largely been unanimous with the NTC and, for a small part, was the subject of criticism. Sometimes it is the small parts that are the most sensitive. We can have an agreement on a large majority of points, and it is the very small points that are problematic. Indeed, you have referred to remuneration. I would add that the CNT nevertheless expressed a reservation that, since it was not faced with legal texts, it was difficult for it to be very precise, but it also raised the issue of remuneration, renewal and conditions, as well as the question of the commission and its concrete construction. I think that it will indeed require extremely precise elements in this regard, because at this stage we are talking about the idea of a commission, why not, but as long as we do not have very clear elements on a possible arbitration by the government - which, in our view, is extremely important - we will always find it difficult to decide on the possible relevance of this commission. I know that this is something that raises a lot of questions and concerns within the sector, and it would be beneficial to have further clarification in the coming days and weeks, but I will come back to that. I've been too long and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u53	Madam President, Minister, at the end of 2021, the employees of many large retail brands went on strike. Whether they are from Aldi, Lidl or Carrefour Mestdagh, all are at the end of the daily pressure in these signs. The overwork of long-term staff caused by the too frequent use of precarious contracts such as acting and student jobs, the lack of organisation or training of staff, especially in the run-up to intense periods such as end-of-year holidays, the aggressiveness of increasingly frequent clients, etc., many of the factors causing physical and psychosocial damage to large-scale workers. Strikes have now calmed down. The negotiations identified some improvements to lighten the work of large-scale employees. However, have large-scale enterprises really become aware of the extent of the phenomenon? Do they question their share of responsibility? Minister, strikes have brought to light a difficult reality that has been hidden for too long. The time has come to start a structural reflection on working conditions in large areas. Have you ever exchanged with the social partners to better manage employment in the retail sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u54	Mrs Thémont, since the beginning of the health crisis, we have all noticed how essential these workers are for society as a whole, collectively and individually. We have also seen that their working conditions are not always obvious. It's an understatement. And this situation has worsened with the Corona crisis, both because of the numerous absences and the measures put in place in the shops and, admittedly, sometimes also because of the tension or even aggressiveness of some consumers. The conclusion of agreements on wages and working conditions is of course part of the essence of social consultation and I attach great importance to the improvement of the situation of these workers, but also of all those whose working conditions are more difficult. We have already had the opportunity to discuss this during the discussion of my policy note, and I would like to recall a few points here. These include measures which, in the interests of the worker, should make it possible to better reconcile work and family life, such as extending the warning periods for communicating working hours in the case of part-time work. We also want to facilitate the creation of sectoral poverty funds that will enable the social partners to take measures to combat job insecurity in their sector in the short, medium and long term by improving working conditions. The sectors will also be able to submit pilot projects on primary prevention of psychosocial risks in the workplace. At the sectoral level, trade unions and employers will be able to apply for grants for projects aimed at developing expertise and instruments in order to reduce these risks considerably. The draft royal decree was approved at the end of last year and is expected to produce its effects as soon as possible. These, honourable Member, are aspects that fall fully and directly within the scope of social consultation, while others require government intervention and are aimed at improving working conditions, particularly in the distribution sector, for the benefit of workers and, more generally, for the benefit of society as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u55	Minister, thank you for your full answer. I had been attentive to your general policy note. I know that you will also be able to improve working conditions in several sectors. The large distribution presents a large sample of attacks on labour law, leading to a high degree of precariousness among workers. Reducing accidents at work and occupational diseases, as well as improving working conditions in large-scale distribution, require - as your general policy note points out - the integration of prevention as early as possible. I will therefore ask you questions about the implementation of your policy note. You know that I remain attentive to the trade sector, because it is increasingly resorting to part-time jobs - currently occupied by 48% of women. I therefore believe that it is essential for them to have decent working conditions and wages.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u56	Minister, on 12 December, the trade unions, which advocated fair pay and better working conditions for service cheque workers, took action at the service cheque companies. The direct result was the conclusion from their analysis of the annual accounts of some 450 service cheque companies that the additional regional subsidies for better working conditions for cleaning aid are mainly directed at shareholders. The big commercial players made 47 million euros in the corona year 2020. That's more than the year before. This is due, among other things, to the extra Flemish subsidies they received. It is, of course, a theoretical exercise, but if that profit were distributed among the various cleaning aids, they would have received a corona premium of 200 euros. Negotiations are still blocked at the moment. The service cheque companies are also charging more and more administrative costs. Even if regional subsidies are involved, you cannot deny the link with better working conditions, the corona premium and wage bargaining. Was there any consultation with the regions? Can you confirm the findings of the unions? Can we not act, in consultation with the Flemish government, so that subsidies really reach the people for whom they are intended? In the plenary session of 18 November, you replied that a social mediator would be in permanent contact with the various parties in order for the sectoral consultation to produce results. Can you give us a status report?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u57	Mrs Vanrobaeys, my administration does not have an analysis of profits or losses in companies in the sector. The regional authorities and ministers are responsible for financing the system of service cheques and, therefore, for monitoring. The sectoral negotiations are still ongoing, even though they are difficult. Unfortunately, attempts to reach a final agreement before Christmas have failed. The biggest bottleneck remains the relocation fee; the parties have all expressed their willingness to continue the talks. The Chair of the Joint Subcommittee is closely involved in the negotiations. I hope that the negotiations will be successful soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I also hope that the negotiations will finally lead to a result. As I pointed out, subsidies are regional, but it is a matter of great regret that we have imposed a number of obligations on the Federal Government regarding mouth masks and alcohol gel and that they are given regional additional subsidies, but that we do not invest in workers who have had a very difficult period of corona and who have always continued to work, in very difficult conditions with a lot of health risks, while they do not receive the necessary appreciation and reward. Together with you, I hope that the negotiations can be successfully concluded and that at least we can find a solution to the relocation fee. At present, the workers concerned need to invest money in order to work, and these are poignant situations which must be brought to an end.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u59	Mr Minister, we find a well-known example of a dispute over teleworking in AG Insurance. There action was taken throughout December at the various establishments, among other things, against the high workload. Another important reason is the company's refusal to negotiate a collective framework on teleworking any longer. Workers are mostly approached individually, but these individual schemes do not compensate for the free overtime worked at home. A conciliation committee already came to fruition in August, but according to the trade unions, the management did not comply with the measures agreed in October in the aftermath of the conciliation committee to reduce the workload and restore social dialogue. Moreover, staff and trade unions feel intimidated during their actions, as no mails are allowed. Employees must all be informed by phone about what is going on in the company. However, Eurofound's research clearly shows that teleworkers are more than twice as likely to work more than 48 hours a week compared to employees working in the office. Also, 30% occasionally works during leisure time. In the case of employees at the office, this is about 5%. The boundary between work and leisure is therefore fading for a piece. Can you give me an update, Minister? Has a mediation been set up at AG Insurance? Is there any feedback on the right to deconnect? How are the agreements to be made on the cost and use of computer equipment in accordance with collective agreement No. 149? Is there feedback on its implementation on the ground? Can you tell us more about the structural framework on telework that the social partners would set up? In your policy statement, you mentioned the right to inaccessibility. When can we expect initiatives and other initiatives on the framework of teleworking?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u60	The situation at AG Insurrance has been followed since mid-July 2021 by the social mediator in charge of the insurance sector, who falls under the Joint Committee No. 306. A first conciliation office of the Joint Committee was convened on 24 August 2021. A unanimous recommendation was issued to support and structure the consultation of the social partners in the company on the issues in question. The Bureau suspended its work pending the results of the social enterprise consultation. The Agency met again on 29 October 2021 and found that the social partners in the company had reached an agreement on the various points of dispute. That agreement contained elements that had to be implemented as a co-commitment to continue the negotiations. The mediator was informed at the end of November, both by the employer and by the trade unions, of the difficulties encountered in the negotiations. However, none of the parties considered it appropriate to call again on the Reconciliation Office of the Joint Committee. The administration does not have any specific information as to the extent to which the agreements in collective agreement No. 149 and 149/2 are applied in practice. Consultations in the NAR on the evaluation and adaptation of the existing framework telework are under way. The reflection is carried out very thoroughly. Hearings were organised with various external experts. At present, the social partners in the NAR are examining how the existing framework, in particular collective agreement No. 85a on structural telework, the best adapted to new developments. In doing so, account will be taken, inter alia, of my recent request for advice, which includes, inter alia, the concept of the worker's right to apply for telework, and of the most recent collective agreements on teleworking, namely collective agreement No. 149 and No. 139/2 on telework, which is mandatory or recommended by the government in the fight against the pandemic. As agreed at the October 2021 Government Conclave, it is intended that a new arrangement on deconnection will be included in the draft law on various labour provisions, which is in preparation. The reimbursement of expenses must, of course, be determined by employers, workers and their representatives. The tax treatment of such fees is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I regret that there is no feedback on collective agreement No. 149, because I do care what it gets or doesn't. The figures I have received so far give a very negative picture, in the sense that only one in six employees receive an expense allowance or that there are only agreements in the company. Yesterday I read in a newspaper that employees are happier by now, so there is some improvement in that regard. I hope that is a sign that more agreements are indeed made on this issue in the workplace. In any case, the conflict at AG Insurance shows me the need for a good framework of telework, both mentally and mentally, with the right to deconnection, and in terms of expenses, given the increased energy bill. Meanwhile, people have been working at home for two years and are paying for all expenses. Figures show that there is more productivity and less disease with telework and at the same time savings can be made at the office, so telework provides the employer with some cost savings that he can certainly share in order to lighten the bill for the teleworkers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u62	Minister, since the advent of the Internet, and certainly in recent years, there have been many other ways of earning income outside the traditional working circuit. We think of influencers on Instagram, youtubers, tick-sockers and so on. Depending on their popularity, they deserve more or less. Their "job" is not always traditional. They are nevertheless engaged in activities, while some of them also benefit from a replacement income. Firstly, do the inspection services proactively monitor the Internet in order to detect this type of employment? Secondly, how many controls have there been since 2018? How many infringements of labour law or tax legislation have been detected? Thirdly, what statute should be adopted by those concerned in order to complete their activities?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u63	The social inspection services carry out research into social fraud proactively or on the basis of a complaint. In recent years, there has been an increase in the number of investigations into unauthorised activities on the Internet. For example, we are looking at internet sales or influencers and bloggers. They also carry out investigations into the unjust accumulation or acquisition of social benefits, such as the RVA or the RIZIV, or the existence or non-existence of a connection as a self-employed person. The College for the fight against social and tax fraud sets out a coordinated approach between the social inspection services, the FPS Finance and the FPS Economy, in order to detect such fraud even more effectively in the future. This coordination is necessary because sales via the Internet and the activities of influencers and bloggers take place in different economic sectors. However, the current registration of research results does not allow social inspection services today to produce accurate statistics on these issues. Activities on social networks appear more likely to be activities subject to the social status of the self-employed. An employment contract with an employer does not exist in practice in these activities. First, however, a study of the social status must always be carried out, in order to determine whether the activity meets the sociological criteria for submission, whether the income obtained is substantial, modest or nil.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. If there are no figures, it's always very difficult. What one does not measure, one cannot know and so one can follow much harder. That's the biggest flaw. I welcome the fact that there is cooperation between different services of the different federal departments. I think this is also necessary because there may be several problems. Their reports must be drawn up in order to obtain the figures so that we can determine when this problem is increasing or not. Not measuring, after all, is not knowing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u65	Minister, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men called for structural measures in the context of the gender pay gap not so long ago. The Institute based itself on data from the 2019 RSZ to establish that women earned 22.7% less than men on average in that year. In 2018, this difference was still 23.1 %, which is of the same order of magnitude. After adjustment on the basis of working time, the difference is 9.1 %. Minister, what do you think is the basis of this pay gap? To what extent do these different factors play a role in shaping this gap? Are you planning measures, as the Institute calls upon you to do? If so, which one? And above all, for what specific purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u66	Several factors can explain the gender pay gap. In addition to the well-known phenomena of the glass ceiling and persistent gender stereotypes, the Institute for the Equality of Men and Women highlights the specific difficulties encountered by women workers when faced with precarious employment contracts, low wages or involuntary part-time work. These are all areas for which I am fighting, just as I continue with the in-depth assessment of the law on the pay gap. In doing so, account should be taken of the proposed European directive on wage transparency. Finally, the Institute also refers to the question of the organisation of childcare, which falls within the competence of the Communities and to that of the Minister of Finance with regard to the tax deductibility of childcare.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u67	Minister, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men highlights the precarious situation of women workers working for low wages with involuntary part-time contracts and precarious contracts. Mr Thémont and I have already given a number of examples of this today, such as cleaning aids or people working with part-time contracts in distribution. The situation there is often the same and the institute calls for attention to pay increases, travel allowances..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It also calls for affordable childcare. The tax deduction has been increased to support families more. Especially with regard to the problem professions, consultation with the regions is needed to see to what extent these problems can be solved, not only in terms of number of places, but also in terms of their affordability. That way, these women can live in a dignified way when they work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u68	Minister, you have remained very brief in your reply for your actions. You did not actually answer the two questions I asked you. That is, of course, your right to do so. You've been riding around it festively. The question is whether you have nothing to say about it, whether you are afraid to say anything about it, or whether you do not want to say anything about it. I can only come back to this later, because it is an important and interesting debate, but until today you are silent. Your answer was literally meaningless. You only referred to what the institute I referred to in my question said about the debate, but my question was what your idea was. Apparently, you don't want, dare, or can't share your ideas with us today. I'm sorry about that. It's a missed opportunity. However, I will come back to it, because it is a very important and interesting subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u69	Mr Minister, on 20 December there was a strike at Brussels Airlines, after six months of negotiations between trade unions and management, which had not been successful. Brussels Airlines received money from the government, so we must continue to take care of the business. Moreover, in the event of a strike, the employer wanted to impose a fine on the strikers, which is also not good for the company's image. It is mainly about not respecting many collective agreements which are important for safety and the like. Is it true that Brussels Airlines wants to use the wet lease agreements to employ other airlines on its own flights, while the company received money from the government? If yes, do you agree? What position do you take here? Now that Brussels Airlines is making operational profits again and will increase the number of flights this summer, the company will recruit people again, after having first discarded staff. At the same time, it does not respect working and working conditions. How do you intend to do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u70	Madam President, Mrs Vindevoghel, law-lease agreements are relatively common practices in large airlines and are normally limited in proportion. Brussels Airlines has also used this in the past, either as a lessor or as a lessee. So it's not new. There are no grounds under competition law to believe that this would not be possible. However, the rules of the game must of course be correctly applied. It is important to respect national and/or European rules on posting and posting, as well as the right to strike. If there were irregularities, the inspection services could of course be involved. As regards the Brussels Airlines labour dispute, we can see that, after the said strike day, employers and trade unions have been together, as planned in the conciliation decision of the Joint Committee of 3 December 2021. Today, these conversations continue. As agreed, this will be reported to the Chair of the Joint Committee. You can rest assured that I will continue to follow that closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic657x.u71	On that first point, Minister, I would like to point out that this is a company that has received financial support from the government. Now the company proposes to recruit staff from abroad. We have already discussed this at the conclusion of that agreement, because we said that it should be subject to conditions. There is no state control over the application of the legislation. That's a first problem, a personnel problem. A second very acute problem is that the employer does not respect collective agreements and that safety is not respected. For example, the lack of staff in DGLV to monitor safety means that rest periods are not respected, which is a danger to both staff and aircraft users. I would like to call on you to listen to what is going on, because the situation is worse now than before the holiday. Yesterday I heard from trade unionists that the employer is not even listening and does not put the people together to talk about the performance, rest and working hours. That is a serious problem.
