ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 February 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 February 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u3	I have received amendments to the bill on various energy provisions, No. 2465/1. I have received amendments to the draft law on various energy provisions, No. 2465/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 February 2022, I propose that these amendments be referred to the Committee on Energy (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 February 2022, I propose that these amendments be sent to the Committee on Energy (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). Discussion of the bill will continue in plenary, after consideration of the amendments in committee. The draft law will be discussed in plenary today, after discussion of the amendments in committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. We can then move on to oral questions, but I have a request from the Prime Minister to make a government statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are experiencing one of the darkest moments since the Second World War. After the difficult peace building in the Balkans in the 1990s, we thought that peace in Europe had been finally achieved. Today, it seems nothing less true. A military conflict on European soil, on the borders of the European Union and NATO territory, unprecedented and unseen Russian aggression against an innocent Ukraine. Vladimir Putin is not ready for his test. In recent months and years, many brave Russian citizens have come out against the autocracy and kleptocracy of the Russian President. They were brutally beaten, poisoned and murdered. Today Putin extends his aggression to 45 million Ukrainians. Whether they speak Russian or Ukrainian, what bothers Putin is that Ukrainians are free citizens. It bothers him that Ukraine is a free country, a country that makes its own choices, a country that looks to the West. Putin's attack is therefore an attack on freedom. For the moment, Russia's aggression is only directed towards Ukraine. There is no evidence that Russia is also targeting NATO countries. However, a number of European countries feel threatened and have today invoked Article 4 of the NATO Treaty. Article 4 states that, as an alliance, we consult each other whenever countries feel threatened with their territorial integrity, political independence or security. Under Article 4, the first consultations took place this morning and tomorrow we will consult with the Heads of State and Government of the 30 NATO countries. Together with our allies, we will take all necessary steps to intensify deterrence and defence. But our actions will always be preventive, proportional and non-escalatory. At the national level, meanwhile, we take the necessary precautions to strengthen the protection of our critical infrastructure. Later in the day, the European Council will also meet in a special session to decide on stricter sanctions against Russia. It is the largest package of sanctions in the history of the Union. The time for gradual sanctions has passed. If we do not act, Putin will not stop once Ukraine is under his yoke. Our action is aimed at weakening Russia's industrial and military complex. These sanctions fall into several areas. First of all, the financial field. We must isolate Russian banks and state-owned enterprises from international money markets. In addition to banks and businesses, representatives of the political and economic elite must be added to the list of sanctions – from Russian oligarchs to the club of kleptocrats surrounding Putin. The sanctions package will also have to focus on the technology Russia needs to operate its economy and carry out its military activities. Ladies and gentlemen, let me be clear: these sanctions are not intended to affect the Russian population, but they must increase the pressure on the autocratic regime that is in the Kremlin today. What is at stake today is nothing less than peace and security in Europe. Vladimir Putin considers democracy to be weak and western values worthless, because, unlike him, we do not use physical violence, we do not risk human lives in unnecessary wars. Because we reject the law of the strongest and prefer political dialogue to cruise missiles. This model of aggression and war is reprehensible. It is a model of the past, built on weak foundations, on a society of distrust and an economy where a small group enriches itself at the expense of the broad population. It's a regime based on restricting the freedom and subjugation of people. Our democracy may seem fragile, but it is much more resilient, just because it is based on free will and voluntary cooperation. Colleagues, we will only make a change by forming a solid block with our European partners and NATO counterparts. We must hold each other firmly in the West for the next few days and months, and we must use this unit to stop the great injustice that Ukraine is being done to. The only way out of this crisis is the immediate cessation of violence. What is happening today is not just about Ukraine, it is also about our European security, about our Europe. A Europe that firmly chooses the international legal order and a Europe that has learned that war counts only losers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. In view of the exceptional situation, given only one precedent in our Assembly, following the Conference of Presidents which has just met, we have decided that for all the questions devoted to this subject, Members will have a double speaking time, that is four minutes instead of two minutes maximum to allow everyone to be able to speak on this subject of extreme gravity. Of course, ministers will also have more than twice the time initially allocated.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u6	Prime Minister, I thank you for your words, even if they do not answer all the questions – I will come back to that. You talked about Europe. It is not just an institution, a geography or a history; it is values that cannot allow us to tolerate a war of aggression at the gates of our Union. Today, Ukrainians are afraid for their families, but also and above all they fear being abandoned by the international community. We cannot afford to take a passive attitude to such aggression, let alone when Ukraine itself calls for help. Today we need courage – and you have, in large part, testified, Prime Minister – especially to say that there is an attacker and an attacker, that there is an autocratic regime on the one hand – Vladimir Putin's Russia – and a fragile democracy on the other, but we also need the courage to act accordingly. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, let us not deceive ourselves about the real stakes of this crisis, it is the tolerance and resistance of our old democracies to the law of the strongest, whose tempo is now imposed on us. By gradually dismembering its neighbour, pretending to prevent it from forming the appropriate alliance choices, Russia simply denies Ukraine the right to exist as a free and sovereign nation and denies it the right to exist outside its sphere of influence. Colleagues, this attitude bears a name, which we believed belonged to the history of the twentieth century: it is called imperialism. Prime Minister, ministers, doing nothing is not an option. Although Belgium is a small country, it is a small founding member of the European Union and NATO – two major organisations that are directly challenged today. They are by an adversary who opposes us with force to the law. More concretely than what you have already announced, how will our country help Ukraine? How will we finally respond to the requests made to us several weeks ago by this country? Beyond European sanctions, what bilateral sanctions are we prepared to take against Russia? How, once the time of indignation has passed, will we help the civilian populations that are bombed - at the very moment when we are talking! – by Russia, in Kiev and in other major cities? Force cannot prevail over law in Europe in 2022. We're counting on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u7	Prime Minister, Minister, 'Let us build a European home together'. Those were Putin's words in the German Parliament 20 years ago. Meanwhile, we know what Putin's words are worth. His outstretched hand turns out to be nothing more than a fist. Today we see again how Putin treats his neighbors: brutal, without compassion, without respect for life, and without shame. That's not new. We saw it in Georgia, we saw it in Kazakhstan, we saw it in Crimea, and we see it again in Ukraine. Who's gonna believe it's gonna end there? The Ukrainian people have nothing to do with Putin's political games, but it is she who dies today. Our thoughts are with the Ukrainian people. Some parties in this House have heard justifications for Putin's actions in recent days. It is the support of such parties in Europe that he is counting on. But let me be clear: there are no excuses at all for Russia's actions. There is no justification for this aggression. It's a terrible, barbaric, war crime. This isn't just gonna end. With every success Russia makes, it becomes more aggressive. Only if Russia comes out weak, it will stop. For now, it's clear: this has to stop. Today, people are dying to defend their country and their home. They're the victims of an autocrat. The lies aren't new, neither are the crimes. The price for the actions must be high enough. This requires a cool head and targeted action. Prime Minister, it is good that you have condemned the crimes. You have also explained in part that sanctions will follow. My questions to you are the following. What will Belgium do to support the Ukrainian people? What actions are being taken to support the Belgians who are still present in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u8	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our priority is peace. What is happening today in Eastern Europe, our continent, is unacceptable and intolerable. Unanimously, I believe, we fully and firmly reaffirm our condemnation of this violation of the rules of international law and the principles of multilateralism. Our condemnation reflects the constant positions that we have adopted and that we must adopt when such events occur at any time. Our thoughts and solidarity go first and foremost to the civilian populations. Wars, here and elsewhere, are killing peoples, killing soldiers and mourning families. Secondly, Madam Minister of Defence, I would also like to express a thought through you to our military and their families, and so, Madam Minister of Foreign Affairs, to all our diplomatic personnel, to the civilians and to all our citizens who are currently living there and here, moments of uncertainty and very difficult times. Prime Minister, I believe that we should first of all thank you for your statement, but also assure you, as well as all members of the government, of our support and encouragement for your work so far and the work to come in international forums, the European Union and NATO. In this regard, I also stress the support of the ministers in your government who are at the forefront of this difficult situation. On the other hand, as was the case in other times, we must preserve our critical sense, without yielding to false information or various propaganda. As the government currently does, it is important to act with knowledge, without haste, that is to say in conscience and in accordance with our responsible convictions. Belgium is a peacemaker. Belgium, as has just been said, is a small country, but on the basis of its history, its talents and effective tools such as the B-FAST, the minister, a country that knows how to be heard and respected. We are recognized for our ability to find compromises and for our ability to foster dialogue between all parties in conflict, and this has been demonstrated in all circumstances. Here too, Belgium can no doubt act decisively for peace and be an actor, a privileged interlocutor in international forums. Of course, the sanctions allow a strong signal to be sent. However, they do not always produce the desired effect. They must be targeted. Too often, unfortunately, they penalize civilian populations and eventually provoke reactions that, on both sides, reinforce the suffering of peoples. In line with the United Nations Secretary-General, António Guterres, who refers to our common humanity, we must plead – and you will no doubt do so in all the instances where you will find yourself – for an immediate ceasefire and a return to dialogue. We must do everything we can to bring peace to our continent. There may be other meetings, as the practice is that Parliament should be closely involved in the difficult decisions that will be taken by the government in the days and weeks to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u9	Madam President, Prime Minister, this is a terrifying day for Ukraine, for Europe, for the world. Russia's brutal invasion of Ukraine with its tanks and missiles, by fire and blood, is under way. Cities and civilians are bombed from Russian territory. Soldiers, women, children die. Many others will die, be wounded, refugees will be hungry, will be cold, will be terrorized, will lose everything that has made their lives at the gates of Europe. Their fault? Their desire for freedom. Their will to choose their own destiny outside the Kremlin dictatorship, their choice of democracy, our Europe and their will to be protected by our defence alliance, NATO. This Putin offensive is a crime, a deliberate war crime wanted by a tyrant who is trampling on the United Nations Charter. It is an attack that violates international law, which denies the very existence of Ukraine, a friendly country, our neighbour, a democracy, a people that demanded peace. Putin hates our democracies. It seeks to attack them in eastern Europe, but also in the Caucasus, Syria, northern Africa with its Wagner militias, the same ones that have waged war in the Donbass since 2014. It has led an asymmetrical war against our countries for years through cyber attacks, interference, manipulation of our public opinions on social networks. Let us not be mistaken, it is not only the Ukrainians who are targeted by this new offensive. We're the target. For Europeans, this must be a moment of unity, firmness and dignity. We must be at the side of Ukrainians, not only in words but in deeds. Europe could not prevent this war. We wanted to act through dialogue and deterrence, but Putin did not want dialogue. While we were talking, he was gathering troops and tanks. It was never really a question of deterrence, since we reassured the Russians from the outset that we would not protect Ukraine from its invasion. We've even hoped it won't shut down the gas faucet. It's the world upside down. We were the ones who threatened him with massive sanctions, but we were hoping at the same time that he would not deprive us of his resources. Still recently, we were even hesitant to deliver helmets and bulletproof vests to Ukraine, considering that this could be interpreted by Moscow as a provocation. I mean here, Prime Minister, all our support for what will demonstrate our firmness, our commitment to the Ukrainians, our protection of the security of Europe and its people. Beyond financial sanctions, we must suspend trade with Russia because it is the money we transfer to it that allows it to invade new territories and destabilize the world. Every year, we Belgians buy at least one billion euros of gas from Russia. This represents fifteen fighter jets. Every day, 3.5 million barrels of Russian oil are sold to Europe, Great Britain, North America by Russia: 350 million dollars every day! As long as it is our euros that feed this war, we will be complicit in this war and Putin will be the master of the game. It will hurt us in the short term. Yes, it is true, no doubt, but it is the price to pay for our safety, not to have all these deaths on our conscience, not to be accomplices. I expect the government to live up to the ongoing tragedy, to go beyond words. What are we going to do for the Ukrainians? What are we going to do for Europe's security? What are we going to do about barbarity? Ukrainian security is our security. The freedom of Ukrainians is our freedom!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u10	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your clear statement. Indeed, Mr Putin is not in need of his test piece. We see the chronicle of an announced invasion. In the Russian roulette of fickle Putin, he released the first bullet to Ukraine. Talking to Mr Putin will not help or benefit. He chose the war path and a power change in Ukraine. Mr Putin and his army of jaknikers have shamelessly violated international law and have been the greatest threat to peace and security in Europe for eighty years. The Russian aggression and rhetoric of genocide and denazification are totally unacceptable. The CD&V Group also wants a strong response to that. You referred to that as well. Above all at European level, we must show our credibility and maintain our unity. We also need to show our teeth. Concrete, strong, economic and financial sanctions are needed. That's what you said in your statement. We must also act individually. We need to hit them where it hurts. We have to keep the shopping oligarchs and their studying children away with visa sanctions. Poland also referred to it. Those sanctions should undermine Putin's credit, not only with the oligarchs, but also with the Russian people, who still consider it a black page in their history. However, we should not be naive. We must also stand ready as a Member State of the European Union to share the burdens of counter-sanctions, which are likely to come. We must try to share this among the Member States, a kind of Burden Sharing in the Energy Market. Oil and gas prices will be subject to it. Militaryly, Belgium must show solidarity in the NATO context and send troops to the east flank if requested by the Eastern European allies. Above all, we must show solidarity with the people in need in Ukraine. We can't imagine. We still saw Ukrainians laughing who thought it couldn't be done and that the rhetoric had to stop from the United States. Unfortunately, however, it has become a reality for families and their children there. We must stand by for them and not only support them humanitarianly, but also provide them with military protection equipment so that they can protect themselves from the various attacks. Even though you have already answered a lot of questions I had in store, Prime Minister, I have a few more. Firstly, I suspect that the European Summit will discuss economic and financial sanctions this evening. How will they be filled out in concrete terms? Secondly, Minister Dedonder, will Belgium be prepared to send troops to protect European allies? Thirdly, does the European Union have any measures to deal with the European consequences of the Russian invasion and the counter-sanctions? We need a package of measures. We must not let one Member State suffer for another.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u11	Madam President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the worst case scenario has been a bitter reality since last night. It's really unreal. On a two-day drive from Brussels, a European capital is attacked by Russia. It's our conflict, too. It is also our values that are under attack and that we must defend. Russia wants to destroy a way of life and democracy. Ukraine has a dream in which it believes. We must stand shoulder to shoulder with Ukraine and with the Ukrainian people. We must support the country in all possible ways. However, it must be done quickly. We are now Thursday afternoon. Tonight, the European Council meets to decide on sanctions. I am, quite frankly, afraid that we will be too late and will be chasing the facts. The complete sanction package must be ready and launched quickly. It must be a supersonic sanction package with massive sanctions, the aim of which is to shut down the Russian economy. It is the only way to make Russia doubt about the invasion of Ukraine and to slow down the invasion. Otherwise, it'll be over and out for Ukraine in a few days. Prime Minister, what sanctions will our country defend? In your speech, you have already addressed it. It must be direct sanctions against Putin and his entourage, against the oligarchs who support him, and it must be a ban on the export of technological products to Russia. Let us also examine how to decouple the Russian economy as much as possible from the international economy. I have another question. Reports of civilian casualties have been pouring in since last night. That is why I propose that we also be ready for humanitarian assistance, humanitarian assistance and reception of war refugees. In the past we have seen how cruel the Russians can work, for example in Grozny and Aleppo. Russia has never hesitated to bomb hospitals and schools in Syria. We must be prepared for the worst. The Russians are war criminals. It is therefore up to us, Belgium and Europe, to provide humanitarian assistance and reception for refugees who are now seeking security. Prime Minister, will the government defend this position? Ukraine needs our solidarity in every conceivable way?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u12	Madam President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, since last night the war has broken out on the European continent following Russia's attack on Ukraine. First of all, on behalf of my group, I would like to condemn Russian military intervention in Ukrainian territory. Whether it is recognition of the independence of the two republics or military intervention, these two actions are in contradiction with international law and violate the Charter of the United Nations. Under no circumstances should the sovereignty of peoples be called into question. And Ukraine's sovereignty and respect for its borders must be no exception. We also condemn this intervention because it leads us to a war whose consequences could be catastrophic for the Ukrainian and Russian peoples, but also for all the peoples of Europe, and because nothing good will emerge from this military confrontation. War is not just a game of power failures for men of influence. War is mostly bombs falling on populations, schools, hospitals and all kinds of infrastructure that are destroyed. They're torn families. It is men, women, children and old people who pay the price of war climbing sponsored by leaders who are safe. Hundreds of thousands of refugees are uprooted and led to an uncertain future. That is what we need to provide answers and solutions to today. But, in order to bring about solutions, we must first make the right diagnosis. It is not necessary to provide superficial answers that will only worsen the situation. First of all, we have to ask ourselves why we got there. Today's tensions do not date from that night or from the last few weeks; they have evolved over the past 30 years. Agreements and treaties had been signed to ensure collective and indivisible security, but those agreements had been violated and flouted. In 2002, the Americans withdrew from the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty (ABM). In 2019, the same Americans withdrew from the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (FNI) Treaty. They also withdrew from the Treaty of Transparency and Mutual Intelligence on the movement of "open sky" troops in 2020. These withdrawals, followed by Russian withdrawals, have worsened the security situation in Europe. NATO's gradual parallel installation of anti-missile shields from Romania to Poland is aimed at breaking the security balance built during the Cold War. In 2015, the peace agreements were negotiated in Minsk by Ukraine, Russia, France, Germany and the self-proclaimed republics of Donetsk and Lugansk. These agreements have never been implemented. In particular, the Ukrainian government has refused to grant autonomy to the eastern regions. However, they can serve as a framework for returning to the negotiating table. NATO's continued expansion to the East – particularly to Ukraine – which is contrary to the promises made to Russia, is perceived by Russia as a threat. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the essential thing is to avoid further escalation and to rapidly promote initiatives aimed at the ceasefire and withdrawal of Russian troops through the United Nations and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u13	Mr Boukili, your time has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u14	Madam President, Prime Minister, Ministers, I thank you, Prime Minister, for your positions and clarifications on this very sad day. It is sad for democracies, sad for Europe, sad for peace on our continent too. As Ukraine is Europe, it is important to stress this. Since that night, we have been clarifying the situation after these two months of uncertainty, since the publication of the Russian diplomatic proposals in mid-December. We know that Russia wants to control Ukraine as a whole politically, economically and militarily. This is the meaning of the military operations that began this morning, which affect the entire territory of Ukraine. Moscow's objective is clear and I will also be clear: to vassal Ukraine, to break its sovereignty, to prevent Ukraine's independence. For Moscow does not want a liberal, democratic, pluralistic state with an economy open to the European Union as a neighbour. Moscow does not want to move in that direction either. That is the proof, ladies and gentlemen, that Moscow's software has not changed. Today we are always united against bloc: the use of military force as the first tool of foreign policy, on the one hand, against European diplomacy based on the values of law, on the other. Of course, historians will take stock of what the missed opportunities have been since the 1990s to this day. I said it in committee already. But it is essential to stress that the record we can have of the last two months is the following. We tried to have a demanding dialogue with Moscow. We played, at all times, the appeasement map and negotiated with limits. We have also always been united, both in the European Union and in NATO. So far – and I congratulate you already on your positions, Prime Minister – we have always preferred proportionate economic sanctions, but it has lasted long enough. All these measures, and this dissuasive policy towards Moscow in order to be able to return to the path of peace, have not had the desired effect. We must see today, and I will redirect it as much as possible, that without a credible defence capability, the European Union will not be able to make its voice heard effectively, certainly not in Moscow. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what will happen to our citizens? What will be the stages of the sanctions that the European Union will take very quickly? As far as NATO is concerned, can we count on a unique capacity and line compared to what is happening now?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u15	Prime Minister, mobilized excellence, 80 years ago, a German psychopath dreamed of a German-Aryan empire and set the world on fire. Gentlemen of the PVDA, today there is a communist Russian psychopath who dreams of an Eurasian Tsar Empire. These may be exaggerated terms, but in this war there is talk of genocide and denazification, although this time that terminology is being used by the wrong party. Colleagues, I like to hear the sympathy bubbling up here. There's tough language, but this war hasn't come out of the sky. In 2008, a former Prime Minister at Maidan Square even expressed European support to Ukraine. However, when the Ukrainians asked to join NATO, Europe did not give home, with Germany and France in the lead. Is it then surprising that Putin thinks we are white molluscs, since we have allowed a civilian plane, the MH 17, to be shot out of the sky? We are constantly seeing the aggressive acts of this new European dictator in various places in the world, even in Africa. We were able to see them recently in Kazakhstan, just before in Belarus, from which attacks are now being made, in Donbas, in Ossetia and in Georgia. What have we done? We have kept quiet for peace. Is it then surprising that we now see a nation with new military power, paid for selling its own raw materials to the Western world? Dear green friends, who has also been paid with gas supplies to Europe. We have financed his new military power. Now, however, it's easy to talk. Prime Minister, I would like to hear you say it all and I agree with you 100%. We can talk very nicely about Europe, but is Europe ever going to be anything more than a talk barracks, is there going to be more than a pear boycott against the Soviet Union? When I see what's happening lately, when the English are not even allowed to fly over Germany to supply military equipment, how can we talk about unity, about this man? Prime Minister, that is why I am asking for your support, so that you will ask this specific question this evening in the Council of Ministers, so that it does not just go on lip service. We do not represent much in NATO. Europe pays 20% of the costs and delivers 20% of the men. The Turks pay more than all of us together. It's time to do something. It is indeed a good thing, Madam Minister, to open Neder-over-Heembeek to Ukrainian victims. Indeed, we have already provided Russian kleptocrates, who had a Ferrari incident in Nice. I will end with a question, Prime Minister. Is it true that in your government, parties have refused to make military supplies, even though they have allowed them to go to Yemen, a country in war? Are we finally going to ask the Greens to step off their green gas cloud to conduct an independent energy policy? I do not want to talk about nuclear energy, but it is the only solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u16	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Deputy Prime Ministers, Minister Vladimir Putin has obviously forgotten to reread the great classics of Russian literature, which is one of the most beautiful in the world. Dostoevski would have fortunately inspired him, if he had read this sentence again: "Beauty will save the world." No! Today, because of Vladimir Putin, the world, Ukraine and the West are living the darkest hours since the Second World War. What a dark day! Ensuring peace on our continent is a priority of every moment! It's probably not the time to go to war, but it's not naive either. It is even less complacency and cynicism or propaganda. When I hear, today, that there is no basic dignity, a party in this House saying that it is the United States of America that is the aggressors or that it is they who are the culprits of Russia's ignoble aggression against Ukraine, I am so afraid of it, Prime Minister! I'm shuddering for our democratic values! It's a shame! It's a scandal! Like the government, my group strongly condemns the large-scale Russian attack on several cities in Ukraine. This is an unjustifiable attack that already affects, unfortunately, and as often, many civilians (children, old people, persons with disabilities, families) and which, more generally, seriously endangers peace, international law and multilateralism. Putin's Russia has had blood on its hands for years, with in 2008, Ossetia, Georgia, Crimea, Ukraine, Syria. Their friends, China, and many others are actors who have blood on their hands to the detriment of Western and fundamental freedoms. We have to call him back. When you say something like that of Vladimir Putin, who speaks of a denazification, who says that genocides are taking place in Ukraine and that you arrive to free the oppressed Ukrainian people, what shame and cynicism! We once again call for an immediate ceasefire, coordinated action within the European Union, in order to continue with the strongest possible sanctions against Russia, and to firmly defend our democratic values. I would therefore like to ask you, Madam Minister of National Defence, the following questions. How would our country's military response be organised, in a coordinated and measured manner, within the European Union and NATO, if a diplomatic decision were to be taken? What human and material means of defence could be deployed within NATO? In what specific context could the women and men who make up our Defence be deployed? At the level of the Royal Military Hospital, what specific measures are being taken, when you have already put it in stand-by? Thank you in advance for your answers. But the fight is not over. We will never go to Western values, these values of freedom, human rights, and this safeguard of international law: Mr Putin and all his friends must know that!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u17	Prime Minister, Ministers, the situation in Ukraine has escalated in recent days and even hours. Russia invaded Ukraine last night shortly after the Russian recognition of the People's Republics of Donetsk and L Accessibility in the Donbas region. Let me be clear immediately, Prime Minister, a military invasion of a sovereign country is a gross violation of international law, which we condemn in the strongest terms. We support Ukrainian sovereignty and territorial integrity. What is clear is that we are at a very dangerous and historic turning point on the European continent. The real question is, what's next? Flemish Interest has advocated dialogue and de-escalation in this semi-round from the beginning. I refer to our motion of recommendation to your government, which was voted away by your majority, barely ten days ago. For the record, even now that diplomacy seems to have failed, we once again call for the dialogue to continue to offer opportunities to limit military violence to the maximum. Because neither the Prime Minister nor Ukraine, Russia or Europe will benefit from an open war with European and NATO involvement. It can lead to a horror scenario at any level. It has already been mentioned: a human and economic battlefield at our eastern borders. Despite our support for Ukraine, we must also look at the other story. We must always weigh our role in this conflict against the interests of our own people. Although sanctions are now under discussion, we believe they should always be smart, targeted and considered. We would like to warn against ill-thought-out measures which affect our own economy, which is already struggling, unnecessarily and which can return to our face as a boomerang. Remember the Russian fruit boycott of our Limburg pears after the annexation of Crimea. I hope you agree with us: we must avoid such scenarios at all times. Prime Minister, Europe's role in this story also raises major questions. Once again, it appears that we are too dependent on others for the protection of the European continent. And when it comes to energy supplies, we are counting on the same Russian regime that we are all condemning here. At the same time, this government, Green Members, is in the process of taking a key step forward. We have to do it. Mr Prime Minister, this morning the Secretary-General of NATO announced additional steps, which he called preventive, proportionate and non-escalating. Can you confirm that all diplomatic channels will be used to prevent even worse? Madam Minister, has NATO already asked us for concrete military support? What are the additional steps taken by NATO? What concrete support can Ukraine count on in the near future? What will be the sanctions that Belgium will specifically advocate in the international context? Will you put our own economic interests first? What is this government doing to reduce our dependence on security and energy?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u18	Madam President, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, it is a dark day for Europe. Putin plunged our continent into war again. First of all, it's a human tragedy. I think, ladies and gentlemen, of all those Ukrainian women and all those Ukrainians who woke up this morning under the vacarm of Russian bombs. I am thinking of those Ukrainian parliamentary colleagues that we were able to meet a few days ago. I am thinking of these Ukrainian parliamentary colleagues who, moreover, today, Madam President, should receive representatives in the House. I am thinking of all these friends and Ukrainian brothers and sisters with whom we share this love of freedom. Because, yes, it is first and foremost a deliberate military offensive against a peaceful democracy. Let us be clear and let us not turn around the pot: if Vladimir Putin attacks Ukraine today, it is not so much because the country, because Ukraine, because the Ukrainian military forces represent an immediate military risk to the Russian empire. No, it is because independence, freedom, Ukrainian democracy, this model of democracy, represents a direct danger to Vladimir Putin's imperialist expansionist project! And it is these democratic values, ladies and gentlemen, that we must defend and at all costs protect as Europeans. Desmond Tutu said, "If you are neutral in a situation of injustice, then you choose the camp of the oppressor." Here Putin flagrantly violates Article 2, paragraph 4 of the Charter of the United Nations, the prohibition of the threat or use of unilateral military force. He also committed a crime, a crime recognized under international law against peace, a crime of aggression when there was no provocation. Prime Minister, like the German ecologist colleagues who have been fighting this Nord Stream 2 pipeline project since the first hour, we are calling for more massive sanctions against the autocrat Putin and his entourage. We also ask to seize the castles and villas of the Russian oligarchs on European soil. The latter represent the pillars of Putin's regime. The note must be salty and unprecedented! Humanitarian aid for Ukrainians must be unreserved. We must be ready to welcome Ukrainian refugees, it is our duty of solidarity. This evening at 6 p.m. there will be an important gathering of all lovers of democracy and freedom in front of the Russian Permanent Mission. I hope that we can be numerous because I am proud to see this unity, to see this consensus among democratic parties in this House, within the government and beyond, to defend democracy and our values in the face of Vladimir Putin's regime. And I say to the Zemmour, the Salvini, the PTB and the Vlaams Belang: shame! Open your eyes, look what happened in Crimea, Ossetia, Georgia! Putting a stop to Vladimir Putin's violent policy is a necessity!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u19	Mr Prime Minister, what we feared to happen over the last few weeks was unfortunately happening this morning. We woke up this morning in another Europe, a Europe we have known for decades without military conflict, without war, with peace and security for all. Unfortunately, this morning we woke up in another Europe, with a military conflict in which a sovereign, independent country was entered by the great power Russia. Putin is thus piercing a European, naive logic that there would only be peace, security and democracy in Europe and that there would only be powers that would be good for it and that there should be no defence against it. That naive thought was brutally pierced this morning. Let us be honest: we stand by and we look at it. Many colleagues have already spoken today, but now it is time to act and take action. We must not merely protest, but do business effectively. What can we do, in Europe and as a country, which has always been a pioneer of a common European policy within the EU? Firstly, tough sanctions are needed. On this subject, I am somewhat renovated to look at the attitude of the Flemish Interest. If we say today that we will be subject to mild sanctions, what signal will we send to Russia? We must take tough sanctions that affect Putin's environment. These will indeed be economic sanctions. That will also be something of each of us, namely the courage to explain to the people that they will also have consequences. If we want to maintain ethical standards, we must also be prepared to accept some of the consequences. This means that we will have to adjust our policies in some areas in order to be able to move on independently from Russia. We must have that courage. Secondly, economic sanctions will not be enough. Russia is entering Ukraine today, but there are other countries with a history in the Soviet Union where there are Russian minorities. Some of these countries are now members of NATO and of the European Union. They're worried. It is absolutely necessary for the European countries to increase their military presence and give Russia the signal that it is serious, that a land border is a land border and that it will not break it, otherwise it will have to deal with our European military solidarity. This also means that within Europe we are finally able to pursue a common defence and foreign policy with a foreign aggressor like Russia. We must now finally show our solidarity in this matter. Those countries which believe in Europe's economic model but no longer believe in philosophy must act in solidarity in Europe, in that sense, because otherwise they will have nothing to do with the European Union. Prime Minister, Belgium must be on the table at that summit tonight to ensure that everyone takes up their responsibilities in a spirit of solidarity. The European construction is clearly not finished and neither is NATO. There are still a lot of countries in Eastern Europe that are deeply concerned and that we must also involve them in this work. They must be integrated into the European project, into that solidarity. Prime Minister, there is an important summit tonight. I think we should also take responsibility for Ukraine itself. We have to help where we have to help. We need to send material where we can send material. Without falling into the hands of the aggressor, we must support the people of Ukraine in terms of logistics, diplomacy, but also politics. People who would be prosecuted, we must help. That is our responsibility. I call on our country to strike hard on the table tonight.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u20	Madam President, Prime Minister, last night, as usual, I came home a little later. My daughter was already in bed, but was still awake and asked me if there would be a war. She's 12 years old and very worried. They had talked about it in class, as perhaps in many classes. I told her we'd see, it didn't look so good, but I didn't tell her that I thought it would be a few hours later. That war is now, in Europe, on European territory. Your message was important. You have tried to calm the nation and you have said that there must be unity and cooperation, that we must pull a nail and stand shoulder to shoulder. The presence of the nuclear cabinet and the foreign and defence ministers is also an important signal. It is not time for political games, and in that sense I appreciate your words, which I support. I saw the Ukrainian ambassador at NATO yesterday, Natalia Galibarenko, and today I saw Ukraine's chargé d'affaires in Belgium and Luxembourg at 12 noon. The man had not slept, was under extreme stress, had two Redbulls drunk and needed a third, because they held him. He thanked Belgium and said that he loved that we invited him. Whether it is parties of the majority or of the opposition, all support is welcome. He also asked for help, and I have a question about that. What about the help? I have heard that 27 specific questions were asked. You received a letter and the Secretary of Defense also received a letter through our military attaché. These questions are about thermal cameras, helmets, vests, but also about a number of other things, such as our Mistral, our anti-tank weapons, our anti-air weapons and our M2 grenade launchers. We answered it late last night. The question is whether this material will still reach Ukraine. Nobody knows. Will humanitarian aid still be able to land in Ukraine? Kiev Airport is already fully under Russian control. The Minister of Defence also sent a letter, following the ambassador's reminder of why Ukraine did not receive an answer to his question. After all, Mr Reznikov specifically asked for Mistral missiles and M2 grenade missiles. He still hasn't had an answer to that. Until today. There was an e-mail, not from the government, but from the general staff of the Belgian Defence Department that a number of things would be done, such as helmets. But they're obviously not gonna settle for that. You have just received a letter from Ukraine's Minister of Defence asking for additional, real material to be provided. I couldn't print the e-mail because he just came in. So no helmets, these people are at war, but real material. When will you be able to deliver Mistral rockets or M2 rockets with the Belgian army? Secondly, the sanctions. You say we will only catch the oligarchs around Putin. What are we going to do about the SWIFT system? It must be broader than just the small circle around the President of Russia, because that is not enough. We need to go wider, otherwise it won't work and he won't feel threatened. My final question, Prime Minister, concerns our eastern border. We need a new operation, including on the southern eastern border in countries such as Romania, Bulgaria and Slovakia. The whole NATO eastern border needs to be defended more strongly, you know that. Is there a new operation? Does Belgium support this new operation? Will we also provide troops for this new military operation to defend our NATO territory against this aggression?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we will answer your questions with three ministers. I will not make full use of the ten-minute speaking time because I would like to refer to the statement I made at the beginning of this sitting. The more detailed questions will be answered by the Foreign and Defence Ministers. First of all, I would like to thank you for this debate, because it shows how strongly the values of our society, the values of democracy, live in Parliament. I have listened carefully to all the speakers and I note that we all have one common goal, namely peace, security and stability in Europe. These are clearly elements that I am taking with me to the various international meetings: this evening at the Special European Council; tomorrow at the NATO virtual summit, and in the days ahead. I would like to respond in more detail to your statement, Mr. Boukili. Honestly, I think she's pretty revolting. It seems that Putin has allies in this Parliament. Listening to you, we might think so. In a moment like this, I find your remarks extremely inappropriate. Today, Ukrainian citizens are in danger of death. Because of what? Because of an aggression against Russia? Not at all! For the simple and good reason that they want to live in a free and democratic country and that they want to enjoy freedom - a freedom that is so dear to us. Is this a threat? Moreover, NATO has never been one for Russia; it is a mutual defence mechanism. Attempts to intimidate a large country against a smaller number of a few million people are different from a confrontation with a bloc of 30 countries that have promised to defend each other. In any case, your intervention has the advantage of clarity, given how you view a mechanism that has guaranteed freedom and peace in Europe for almost 80 years. I think your reasoning is weird. It must be clear that we will not be intimidated by those who find freedom, stability and democracy threatening. These values form the basis of our society and it seems logical to me that we should defend them with all our hands. A number of questions will be dealt with in more detail by the Ministers. Mr Francken, I would like to comment on your very recent question. The evaluation that we and the Defense Department are always carrying out is primarily to examine whether the equipment they are asking for is sufficiently available. We must also take into account the possibility that within NATO, for example, the SACEUR would like to call on Belgian forces, of course within the NATO territory. With this very high demand for preparedness, we must also ensure that sufficient resources are available to our people. Every question we get, we analyze in that perspective. We also look at how other countries deal with it. Finally, in these difficult times it is important that we stand shoulder to shoulder. Sanctions must be looked at at a multilateral level, in a European context. The purpose of these sanctions is, of course, to hit Russia. However, we all know that we will also have to stand shoulder to shoulder if there are any counter-sanctions. We must ensure that all countries at European level show solidarity in this area too, so that certain countries are not hit harder than others. This solidarity is important. We have to go to tough measures, if we bite, we also have to bite. At European level, there must also be sufficient solidarity in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u22	Madam President, it is indeed a dark day for peace, a dark day for Europe and, above all, for the Ukrainian people. At dawn, Russia launched an unprecedented attack on Ukraine. We condemn this attack in the strongest and strongest terms possible. We also condemn Belarus' involvement in this attack. These battles have already led and will continue to lead to the loss of life and suffering. With our thoughts on the victims and their loved ones, I would like to reiterate our message of unity and solidarity with Ukraine and its people. Together with the UN Secretary-General and our international and European partners, we call on Russia to stop the military operation in Ukraine immediately and bring its troops back within its own borders. This recent experience makes it clear that the chances of this call being followed by effects are low. That is why we must respond to this unprecedented attack. We must be clear: Moscow behaves in an offensive, belligerent manner and these attacks have in no way been caused by Kiev. In recent weeks, we have multiplied the channels of communication, the meetings, the proposals. While the Russian President argued that he wanted to find a solution through dialogue, he demonstrated through his actions that his real goal was to gather more troops at Ukraine's borders in order to create the conditions for a massive invasion. Yesterday afternoon I summoned the Russian ambassador to Belgium to make clear our strong condemnation of Russian action. In addition to the meeting referred to by the Prime Minister, there will also be a virtual OSCE meeting at 4 p.m. which I will be attending. This afternoon there is also a Council of Europe meeting to discuss possible measures against Russia, including a possible suspension of Russia in the organisation. Tomorrow afternoon, a virtual NATO summit and an EU Foreign Affairs Council will follow. We will certainly discuss our diplomatic relationship with Russia there, as well as future sanctions. We'll also have to talk about the way forward. We have already mobilised EUR 1.2 billion for macroeconomic support and measures under the European Peace Facility. At Belgian level, we announced yesterday a package of civilian and military support. I call for this to continue at EU and bilateral level, in the light of future needs. With regard to sanctions, if we adopted a first package, it was clear that another package would follow in the event of further aggression; that is why this second package must be massive, rapid and decisive. A decision on this matter will therefore have to be taken quickly to emphasize, if necessary, our unity and determination. When I speak of unity, I am of course referring to strong sanctions taken at European level in consultation with our American, Canadian or UK allies. Last night, meetings were held at the United Nations. Do you know which country outside Russia tried to justify these acts? We know that here, it's the PTB. There, it was Syria. This is how you participate, sir, in Russian propaganda. Maybe in your party, you're happy, but I'm ashamed! [[Applause]] As regards the Belgians on the spot and our embassy, there are still about 250 Belgians and members of their family units as well as the Luxembourgers who we took responsibility for. They're registered. They have indeed long been advised to leave the territory and I would like to stress here again because unfortunately the world is facing many crises. When Foreign Affairs issues opinions, it's not a joke. When Foreign Affairs asks to leave the territory, please, make sure to comply with these opinions! When the situation deteriorates overnight, from one hour to the next, the ability to leave this territory diminishes or can completely disappear. Of course, we continue to help people who are still there. Our ambassadors are here. Foreign Affairs are here and remain in position to support them. We wish them much courage. We all encourage them here, we encourage the people of Ukraine and hope that things will be worked out as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as my fellow members of the government have said, the recognition by the Russian Federation of the independence of the two separatist provinces of Donbass, as well as the large-scale Russian attack on several cities in Ukraine constitute a flagrant violation of international law and thus render the Minsk agreements, which were the only peace process in eastern Ukraine, obsolete. We must note that, despite numerous appeals from the international community to de-escalation and dialogue, the situation has deteriorated so that many citizens will be affected. With President Putin's speech and the prospect of the illegal deployment of Russian troops in Ukraine, we are experiencing a further step in the escalation, a critical step also based on campaigns of disinformation and destabilization that have been going on for several months. At present, on Ukraine's borders, the Russians have been collecting troops for several weeks. The latest information reported 190,000 military personnel with war equipment. Russia has also installed command posts and medical units as well as mobilized troops with heavy material equipment, including ballistic missiles, artillery elements, aircraft and combat helicopters. As you can see last night, ways have also been used to directly attack Ukraine on its territory. It is too early to say more about all the means used and the exact targets of the attacks. However, we can already say that cruise missiles, aerial bombardments and the use of artillery have made it possible to attack military command centres, airports and decision-making centres of the Ukrainian government. Moreover, beyond the incursion of Russian troops via eastern Ukraine, we also have indications of the intrusion of ground troops from Belarus and Crimea. All these attacks prove that Russian troops were not amassed at the gates of Ukraine solely for the purpose of deterrence. On the contrary, it is a demonstration of a desire to destabilize the Ukrainian government in place. Military pressure has been unseen since the end of the Cold War and is reinforced by the recently announced recognition of the separatist republics and the Russian invasion of Ukrainian territory. This clearly shows that the Russian authorities were unable to deliver their recent statements on the withdrawal of troops on the ground. In any case, we continue to de-escalation. We call on the mobilized military to return to their barracks and to respect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine. We're not naive. We remain faithful to our principles and our solidarity with both the alliance and Ukraine. Russia's unilateral act poses a threat not only to Ukraine and its people but also to us, the European Union and NATO. We are following closely the situation with other Member States in our strategic partnerships and the Alliance to analyse it and agree on firm and appropriate responses in order to contribute to the de-escalation, to support our Ukrainian partner and to protect the Alliance's borders. You know that NATO is a defensive Alliance and that it pursues a two-pronged approach, that of diplomacy and deterrence. At the last NATO-Russia Council, these principles were reminded of the Russian authorities. The NATO and Allies' proposals therefore call on Russia to keep different channels of communication open and to increase transparency in order to reduce risks and prepare measures for arms control. At the same time, given the current situation, we are determined to strengthen the deterrent attitude of the alliance in this crisis. Depending on how the situation develops, the Belgian Defence will therefore support NATO's possible response. We will assume our responsibilities and, if necessary, assess the additional capacities we can use to contribute to the collective defence efforts of the alliance. In terms of deterrence, NATO has called on Member States to increase the readiness of its rapid reaction force and to provide additional troops to allow for NATO deployment in Eastern Europe. Belgium is already making available resources within the framework of this rapid reaction force. The principle is that the means for deployment should be rotated among the Allies for several months. The troops of the member states of the Alliance are thus trained and prepared until they are activated. The Belgian capabilities currently planned in this context include several hundred military personnel and equipment from the Earth, Air and Marine components. The Belgian F16 detachment, which was already deployed for air-policing in Estonia, continues its mission as planned within the existing mandate. The missions of our F16s have been clearly defined in the context of the defence of NATO airspace. However, the current situation requires us to increase our level of vigilance. In addition, Belgium is of course ready to provide the necessary support to NATO within the Host Nation Support. More generally, it goes without saying that Belgian military participation and NATO commitments remain in force in the current context. If the alliance decides to increase defence presence, we will react. We are ready to fulfil our role, together with our allies. In addition, NATO also provides technological support to Ukraine, particularly in the area of cyber. For our part, it was decided, at the conclusion of the National Security Council, that the Defence would contribute to the provision of protection, observation and guidance equipment to Ukraine. In addition, the Queen Astrid Military Hospital will be prepared to accommodate, if necessary, any injured Ukrainians to provide first aid and direct them either to the Burning Majors Centre or to civilian hospitals, depending on their pathology. At the moment, our staff is preparing the transportation arrangements. Finally, it is clear that our aid must not be limited to bilateral or military support from NATO and assistance to Ukrainian professional military training through the European Peace Facility. Belgium's aid must also take other forms, such as humanitarian aid via B-FAST or cyber assistance. In any case, as far as defence is concerned, solidarity with the alliance remains our creed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u24	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your answers. To be honest, I remain a little on my humanitarian hunger. The images that come to us show that this is likely to be the first of the answers that we will have to provide. Thank you for paying attention. As far as NATO is concerned, in addition to the fact that, like others here, I find that the struggle of the PTB against imperialism seems to stop at the borders of Russia and China, I find it quite incredible that today any country can still be blamed either for joining NATO or for wanting to do so. Is there a worse day in NATO's history to blame a country for joining or wanting to join? Can anyone here blame, or can they tell Ukraine that it had no very good reason to want to join this organization? Let's even think back. Let us imagine that the Baltic States have not joined NATO. Let us imagine today a world in which the Baltic States, the other Eastern countries, Poland, are not members of NATO. We would not be just shaking and talking about Ukraine today. We would talk about a whole series of countries. And even with these states integrated into NATO, we are still afraid for them, because of their Russian-speaking minority and the pressures it generates. There's no picture. Apart from being an unjustifiable aggression, what Mr Putin is doing today is NATO's promotion campaign, which was said to have been in brain death a few years ago, the most incredible in history. Let's all stay solid! Let's all stand together! And let us not deceive an enemy! There's an assailant and an assailant. Anyone in good faith can only see this today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u25	Thank you very much for your comprehensive and detailed answer. You have our support. Putin's pattern is not new. The fact that some parties respond benevolently or understandingly to a dictator is not really the case. Those parties are playing with fire. The Flemish Interest advocates a soft approach. The PVDA blames the West. The PVDA still defends a dictator. Still defends the PVDA Putin, who suppresses his people. The PVDA still defends the only party in the conflict that targets its weapons against innocent civilians. Putin immediately cited the communist past to deny Ukraine's right to exist. If we accept that logic, there are many more countries on the list for an attack. It's time to take sides. We are taking the side of democratic values, the side of freedom and self-determination with a people who are now fighting for their lives. It's the only side that matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u26	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this debate which is interesting in many ways. Above all, I would like to thank you for your commitment, particularly to postpone our concerns at the various meetings in which you are going to participate. Indeed, I am convinced, and I am probably not the only one in this House, that Belgium can indeed play a role because of its modest size and the strength of its history in order, perhaps, to improve things or quickly return to a ceasefire situation and dialogue. There will probably be debriefings, particularly on the demands to be made at NATO level, and on the use of Article 4, which will indeed deserve us to know exactly what it is about, and to know the contours of it. This will allow us to follow informed decisions and not just because requests are made.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u27	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your important interventions. It is a flash war that Russia is waging in Ukraine. We learn from time to time, from minute to minute, that airports are destroyed, naval bases destroyed, military infrastructure destroyed. Ukraine could fall in the next few days. Unfortunately, history will note that we have not been able to protect her. Maybe we didn't want to protect her. And you are right, Prime Minister, Russia attacked Ukraine because it was not part of NATO. This is a lesson that we all receive. We need to consider without delay any applications for NATO membership or NATO protection coming to us in the coming days. It will be our responsibility for the next few days and weeks. We must be able to protect the other countries that are under the threat of this dictator, who now has followers and supporters in our own Parliament. I was never surprised by this kind of alliance between the far right and the far left, with regard to their fascination with dictators. This has yet to be demonstrated today, but it should not distract us, the Democrats, from being able to provide our support. And I have unfortunately heard few things. We need to cut this gas, this gas supply to Russia. We must stop pouring Euros into Russia's mannes for it to wage these imperialist wars. We must also provide practical military assistance so that the Ukrainians - if there is still time - can defend themselves. We must help them on the ground in humanitarian and economic terms, and we must indeed be able to help them here too. We must live up to what is happening there, to the history that is in progress, because it is our responsibility (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u28	Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your detailed reply. I have heard very clearly that a strong and united European response is needed and that we will assume our responsibilities in NATO. We can't let Putin break us up. We must impose sanctions on one side and, together, deal with the shocks of sanctions and counter-sanctions. It is funny to hear that the Flemish interest has suddenly become a soft healer. After all, you know the saying soft healers make stinking wounds. Those wounds have been dwindling since the occupation of Crimea, and we need to respond more forcefully. The PVDA is also rather cynical and refers to the Minsk agreements. You know that the Russians who considered them a piece of paper and put them right next to them. They had to withdraw their troops from the Donbas. They have been very cynical in that, they have just converted them today into so-called peacekeeping forces that have eventually become attack troops. It is unacceptable how you speak with an authoritarian dictator like Putin today. We must be very clear, but we must also remain very cold-blooded and ensure that there is no large-scale war, that there is de-escalation. Through NATO, we must continue to work on deterrents and diplomacy. The coming days are crucial for Europe. We have to make it clear that Europe is not a strategy board that is being pushed around and softly handled, which means that our values are no longer being defended. We want to make that clear from this Parliament. We want to send that message very clearly, without falling prey to Putin's imperial ambitions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u29	We must be united in our support for the Ukrainian people, and that is clearly the case here in Parliament today. We understand that the Belgian Government will argue in favour of the strongest possible sanctions. At the beginning of this week, the new German government has already taken a leading role in this by suspending the Nordstream 2 project. That's the way we have to choose. Ukrainian President Zelenski said this morning that the world must force Russia to make peace. That is the only thing that must be done in the shortest possible time. When I heard the colleagues from the PVDA, I was reminded of the French expression of the apology lesson Sont faces pour s'en servir. The PVDA has crampedly sought excuses for explaining Russia's war hunger and aggression, the raid in a free, sovereign European country. Those excuses, colleagues of the PVDA, do not exist. It merely shows how difficult you are to unequivocally condemn autocratic regimes. When it comes to foreign policy, your party can't be trusted for anything, for no hair. Madam President, tonight at 6 p.m., a major protest is planned at the Permanent Representation of Russia, close by. In fact, you should suspend today's sitting so that we can go there with all the Members of Parliament. For example, we would send out the extremely strong signal that the Belgian Parliament is united in its support for Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. I certainly hope that we will be there with a lot of Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u30	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, speaking to you, I am speaking to all colleagues. No one is deafer than the one who does not want to hear! I started my speech by saying that we strongly condemn the Russian intervention in Ukraine. You have associated me with Putin and I repeat that I have no sympathy for Mr Putin, for his chauvinistic vision of great Russia or for his oligarch system. Is that clear? The aim here is to find a peace solution. We can try the policy of overbidding or sanctions. But did it work in Libya, Afghanistan, Iraq? Where did it work? We need a dialogue! Your NATO policy, your imperialist policy does not work! Today, we need diplomacy. Are you going to make peace with bombs? Prime Minister, you have strongly defended freedom and respect for democracy. We must begin by hearing the differences. I do not agree with your analysis because what is happening today has its origins in history. As long as you don't analyze...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as I said in my first speech, it is a sad day for international relations. It is also a sad day for European diplomacy, which has always relied on the defence of our democratic values, the defence of freedom, the defence of security, the defence of the right of peoples to self-determination, the defence of the sovereignty of any State, a fundamental principle in international law. Today, it must be noted that some people no longer want to engage in this type of relationship or to continue to engage in dialogue, but take up arms and unilaterally impose their way of thinking. A while ago, a colleague was talking about "new imperialism". We must not chew our words. Europe must be united. We must be tough, firm and consistent, both within the European Union and within NATO. Thank you and I count on you. I'm counting on all of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u32	Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, history has taught us that, in order to stop a warlike dictator, people need Churchills and not Chamberlains. It is not enough to stand at the border to call for Russia to stop doing so. By Churchill, I don't mean going to war first, because that could cause a world fire. We have missed the opportunity by not allowing these people into NATO. You know very well, Prime Minister, that it will no longer be about a pear boycott. Russia has $600 billion reserves due to gas and oil exports. If you do not want to fight yourself, there is one way to prevent the other from doing so, namely by preventing him from supplying himself with military equipment. Instead of putting in small boycotts every time and threatening them with fine words, I ask you to do something. The only thing we can do, dear green friends, is to shut down the gas and oil taps. What do our own people get to deal with in the next few days? Oil and gas prices go through the roof and Putin benefits from them first and foremost. So I strongly recommend closing the gas and oil taps. I have not yet heard anything about a problem that we will have to deal with: the issue of refugees. Are we going to show the same solidarity when people come from the Eastern bloc? There are 44 million Ukrainians, men, women and children, who are now being brutally murdered to meet the wishes of a great dictator. I hope we'll be equally loyal to those people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u33	Madam President, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. The war is, of course, always a failure. We are facing a serious and profound crisis for peace. My group therefore fully supports our government, our diplomats who are in office, but also the women and men who make up our army. It should be remembered that the action of our country must always take place within the borders of the Alliance. No ambiguity is permitted in this regard. It is essential that we act within a European approach. What is happening in Ukraine cannot become a state of affairs. International law has been totally violated, flouted and trampled by Russia. The dialogue was broken by Vladimir Putin himself, knowingly lying and preparing, for a very long time, according to American information, since December, this shameful invasion of a democratic country, of a country that breathes hope and hope for its inhabitants to live in a country of freedom where human emancipation can exist. I will conclude my speech by referring to one of the great French authors who must inspire us at every moment of our existence. Albert Camus, Nobel Prize laureate of literature, said: "Peace is the only battle worth conducting." Thank you for your efforts and courage.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when a matter has become clear in this conflict, it is how powerless Europe is. The decades of leaning back by our political class and systematically saving on our defence and security apparatus, by the way, a guilty omission of all these majority parties, have caused our defence to fall victim over the years. Moreover, division and weakness are always punished. Tough statements such as "we're ready" make very little impression on Putin who, with his pernicious politics at the moment, is continuing to set out the beacons towards the Baltic states. Prime Minister, finally invest in our security apparatus so that we can regain credibility. Also make quick work of that energy independence so that Putin can no longer use the pressure agent of the gas crane against us. Pleads for harsh, thoughtful and targeted sanctions. Not mild sanctions, Mr Lachaert, but harsh and targeted sanctions. Not a soft approach, Mrs Reynaert, but tough and targeted sanctions against all those individuals and organisations involved in Russian military action. In doing so, make sure that our economic damage is limited where possible. Beware of far-reaching involvement in a military conflict whose consequences we cannot currently assess, Prime Minister. Keep your head down. Don't get carried away. To say it with the words of Ukrainian President Zelenski himself: 'The best friend of our enemy is panic'.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u35	Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. Indeed, solidarity is not only nourished by words. We also need acts of solidarity with the Ukrainian people today. What is at stake today, ladies and gentlemen? If we decide to close our eyes, to wait, to stand by a tyrant, when Putin decides to trample on international law, to trample on democratic values, then the generations of Europeans will pay the high price of our inaction today. That is why we must act today, take this quick and effective decision to impose a package of massive sanctions against Vladimir Putin's autocratic kleptocrat regime. We must tell him very frankly, straight in the eye: "No, Putin will not buy the European Union's inaction with gas, barrels or weapons." Europeans will remain united in the image of this government, like a great democratic majority of this Parliament, of which I am proud today. I hope once again, ladies and gentlemen, that you will find many of you in front of the Russian mission this evening so that we can together have a strong voice for democracy in defence of freedoms.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u36	Madam President, Prime Minister, many valuable things have been told during the current debate, which can only be taken into account in the Belgian position that will be expressed this evening. All Members, or most of them, are in favour of very clear sanctions and a clear Belgian position at this evening's summit. First of all, this means a clear sanction package, which seems convincing and touches those who need to be touched, namely those who support the regime that is aggressive against Ukraine. Secondly, the lesson to be learned from this is that we need to cooperate more, including within Europe. I am glad to hear that today from parties that have often been Eurocritical in the past. They also understand that if we do not work together within Europe, we will never be able to give Russia back. Europe, with all its Member States, spends four times more on defence than Russia itself. So what would not be the point if we were to work a little more together within Europe, in order to make a fist against Putin? Tonight, therefore, we have an important role to play in signaling that we must continue integration, especially for the countries that are very close to Russia. These countries used to be in the sphere of influence of the Soviet Union and today are genuinely concerned about their sovereignty and independence. We, the representatives of Belgium and the Belgian people, must stand up for the sovereignty of those countries and for the freedom of all those involved in a free democracy. We have to be there for them. For them, we must act and demand sanctions tonight.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u37	Thank you, Prime Minister and Ministers, for your answers. On 7 October this year Vladimir Putin will be 70 years old. People of 70 are sometimes engaged in the historical role they play, have played and still want to play, their legacy, their historical legacy. The same goes for Vladimir Putin, no doubt. That man doesn't want a page in Russia's history books or the world, he wants a whole chapter. He's assigned himself an assignment, he thinks he's responsible. He finds it his sacred mission to bring the change to Russia, after years of decline. He wants to make a difference. He must now be the man who brings about change, after the weak leadership of Gorbachev and Yeltsin. Even Lenin must believe it, because Lenin created Ukraine and Putin called it a fictional nation last Monday. Vladimir Putin wants to make the motherland of Russia great and great again. To this end, he will take Ukraine, take out President Zelenski and appoint a puppet in Kiev. For the same reason, he intervened with Transnistria in Kazakhstan and Moldova. He will continue in Georgia, don't worry. He has also finally entered Belarus by putting in his army units, which are even operating against Ukraine at the moment. So he has a very clear agenda. What are we going to do about it? On the other hand, we are western invaders. The fall of the Berlin Wall, which we had won, has brought us enormous economic prosperity, but at the same time made us militarily vicious. Prime Minister, that is why I can only call for one thing, for the whole government in the coming years. Let us be resilient again, let us make the STAR plan a priority again and achieve 2% of investment. I also advocate energy independence (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u38	Prime Minister, the debate just now demonstrated how important the invasion of Ukraine is and how many important facets it has. However, this raid also puts pressure on our energy supply and, above all, on our energy prices. Gas and electricity prices have already risen sharply in recent months due to the artificial scarcity of gas created. Our families and businesses suffer from this. It gets worse, with the evolution of the last few hours. European gas prices have already risen by 53% today. It is not the first time that Russia has raised energy prices and I fear it will not be the last time. The question is, therefore, what will the government do in a European context to ensure that energy prices remain affordable, that energy supplies are guaranteed and that we become less dependent on natural gas. Mr Prime Minister, four new gas plants have already been identified as part of the core exit. That means even more dependence on foreign gas. Is that the ideal future plan now? Today we are Putin's playball through our energy bill. He's using it as a weapon in this conflict. What's the government gonna do? Will you, together with your colleagues, ensure that we become more resilient or will this government continue its plan to realise the core step?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u39	Mr Wollants, this is not the first time we have faced each other in this dossier. I'll tell you what method the government's using. This method is based on facts, expert advice and advice from, among others, Elia, the CREG and the General Energy Directorate. It is logical that an analysis should take into account the most recent facts. After all, it would be wrong not to do that. The German Chancellor Scholz said that Europe should reflect on its energy strategy. This is an exercise that we have been working on since this government took office. What does that mean in the short term, but also in the longer term, for example, in the area of zero emissions? The government has therefore requested an analysis in its decision at the end of last year. We've specified that geopolitical analysis over the past few weeks. We have asked very clearly about dependence on natural gas. We asked this question to the General Energy Directorate and to the CREG, in view of our future production mix. We asked the CREG what its impact on the price was. We asked the General Energy Directorate what its impact on security of supply is. I am not saying anything new, the government will base itself on objective criteria and objective analyses to make a well-thought-out decision around the middle of March.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u40	Prime Minister, you are going to postpone the debate for you. It is clear that this further dependence, with four new gas plants, will effectively ensure that we become even more the play ball of regimes like Putin's. This will ensure that our energy prices fluctuate even more in the future. I believe you have no agreement within your government to do anything when it comes to the core exit. This has become more than clear in recent months. However, you must be very aware that this will naturally put you in the pockets of our families and businesses. You make us less resistant, you chain us to that crane from Putin among others. Keep your word and take steps forward. Take into account what is happening today, otherwise you will go completely under in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u41	Madam President, Prime Minister, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Denmark, Finland and Sweden had already released their corona measures, while you had here extended the epidemic emergency by no less than three months. Meanwhile Italy abolishes the corona pass and from tomorrow all corona measures, including the CST, will expire in the Netherlands. Unfortunately, in your coronabarometer, which all governments in this country agreed to, the counterproductive CST is anchored. So if we come in code yellow, the CTS will not be abolished at all, unfortunately, but it will simply not be used anymore. Until the coronabarometer changes color again. You cannot continue to claim that it is a unique and temporary instrument if it is recreated in every flickering of a covid variant. One of your advisors, vet Steven Van Gucht, even sees it as a useful tool to use in seasonal flu. Antwerp's provincial governor Cathy Berx also made statements in that sense this week. She said that we should not throw away the expertise that has been built up over the past two years, because, apart from COOVID-19, many other infectious diseases are emerging. As if these infectious diseases suddenly appeared and weren't there before! Prime Minister, the CST does not work unless polarizing. It is a pestilence measure, as Mr Macron has rightly admitted. Your party chairman is no longer here, but he has repeated it in the press this week: the Covid Safe Ticket is not really safe at all. My question is very simple. Will you finally abolish this matter definitively on the Conciliation Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u42	Prime Minister, whether the CST has served or not, I don't know. I wasn't in favour, and I suspect I'll never be. A typical human characteristic is that we adapt easily. Without much effort, people show that thing when they go to restaurants, for example. But then there's a danger that the new will be normal, the new starting point. And that we assume that it is a keeper and that in the future we will only ask ourselves how we will still use the CST, how we will tighten it up and use it in other circumstances, because it will become a normal instrument. It's on our cell phone, and we've become used to it in the meantime. There are now two possibilities. Either we leave the CST to rest when the acute situation is over, with the colour yellow, and also the barometer comes to an end, namely on 30 June. Either we let the CST disappear, the zero point then means that we live without the CST and that the pass system is no longer part of our normal arsenal. Which of the two camps do you belong to: the camp that the CST wants to rest, or the camp that it simply wants to abolish?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a Consultation Committee is scheduled for 4 March. The guide we use there is the coronabarometer. That coronabarometer has a number of advantages. A first advantage is that we are dealing with our measures in a very gradual way, which has always been the characteristic of our country throughout the covid pandemic. Our measures are being used in a very gradual manner and are very stable and much less stop and go than in other countries. A second advantage of the coronabarometer is predictability. We are in code orange today and you know very well what it means when we go to code yellow. With regard to the use of intensive care beds, we have already gone below the threshold of 300 beds, which is a good thing. In the field of hospitalizations we are not yet at the threshold of 150 hospitalizations per day, which was actually needed to go to code orange, but evolution is rather positive. I think we can assume that if evolution continues as the experts see it in their models, we will be able to decide on 4 March to go to code yellow. To know what that means, I'm just looking at what's in the corona barometer. Code yellow means the end of the use of the CST, for example when entering a café or restaurant, the end of the capacity ceilings in halls and the end of the federal phase, which will be an important moment because the federal phase has lasted for a very long time. No question has been asked about the mouth mask, but that is something that lives very strongly. Many wonder whether we will be able to open the school again after the holiday on 7 March without mouth masks for the age of 12 to 18 years. I really hope that we will be able to open the schools at that time without mouth masks. That decision has not yet been taken, but I think we can assume that it will be on the table and that that will be a good thing. The CST has absolutely proved its worth. This has also been demonstrated in the parliamentary debate in which various options have been considered in order to achieve the highest possible degree of vaccination. If we get into code yellow and we can throw that barometer in the trash at some point, then it makes sense that the CST is no longer useful at the time and can therefore disappear.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u44	Prime Minister, that CST is tearing up society. It is because of the false sense of security that citizens have been given the CST to do the opposite of what it was intended to do. The Flemish interest has warned us from the outset and in the debate to which you refer, the experts and the professors agreed with us. That CST should not be temporarily suspended, that thing must disappear permanently and I have not heard any guarantees about it. This afternoon, a resolution of the Flemish Interest will be voted on in the Flemish Parliament to ensure that final abolition is achieved in the Consultation Committee of 4 March. I hope that all the parties, including yours, Mr De Roover, who say here that they are in favour of the definitive disappearance of the CST, will for once take action and change their voting behaviour and not vote for the CST, but for (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u45	Prime Minister, I deliberately did not talk about the barometer and the Consultative Committee in order to give you as much time as possible to respond very clearly to the specific question we have asked. In the meantime, we have discovered that you are already giving answers to unasked questions. That's a little progress. If we get an answer to the questions that have been asked in the future, then this Question Time will be of enormous importance. Optimism is a moral duty, I think. A bit like the Soviets used to try to see who was closer to Brezhnev and who literally disappeared from the picture, I think I discover in your words, but I am very careful because you were too, that you are not on the side of Minister Vandenbroucke, who would like to make the CST an everlasting part of our mobile phone and that you would rather (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u46	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today is a sad day in Europe, a sad day for peace and democracy and, above all, for the Ukrainian people. Today, uncertainty reigns the world. With that uncertainty, an authoritarian leader such as Putin is of course doing all the good. That uncertainty is also present today with our families. People are worried about the war and its consequences. Energy prices have risen by 40% today and our citizens are worried about invoices. I hear some Members simplifying the debate on rising invoices, which we have already raised, by saying that two nuclear power plants will solve everything. However, today we have seven nuclear power plants and we are more dependent on Russia for uranium than for gas. That is not at the heart of the matter. The question that arises today is what we can do today about the hugely high energy bills. Minister, the government agreed in the Energy Agreement that as a minister you may continue to work on the structural revision of our energy bill. That's right. You know our position in that regard. A long-standing demand for a permanent reduction in VAT from 21 % to 6% on gas and electricity is ahead. It doesn't matter how people heat their homes. Once upon a time, we were almost alone with that view. I note today that more and more parties share our views. Together with your fellow Minister for Energy, who defended the principle once again today, you were given time by the government to work on a structural basis. However, the world has not calmed down in recent days. We're running out of time. Mr Minister, can you reassure me and so many others with an announcement that the government is working on the structural reduction of VAT on energy from 21% to 6%? What can we expect from you and the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u47	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, energy prices have risen enormously in recent months. This crisis continues and weighs hugely on the families. A while ago, the government came to an agreement, reluctantly and after a lot of palaver. But, well, that agreement means that VAT on electricity will be increased to 6% for four months, a discount of barely 65 euros per month, and that 100 euros heating premium will be granted. That is clearly not enough. For some consumers, the total allowance does not even cover what they have to pay extra monthly. A lot of people are afraid of the final billing or an email from their energy supplier. Since that government agreement with PVDA, we have asked Prime Minister De Croo, Minister Van der Straeten and you every week to maintain the VAT rate at 6%. Next Sunday we will also organize a demonstration with PVDA, for which many people confirm their arrival. In telephone conversations with all our members and sympathizers, the energy bill is discussed over and over again, which is now priority number one. We also continued our petition campaign. At the moment, the counter shows that 308,563 Belgians have signed our petition to reduce VAT on energy from 21% to 6%. Energy bills remain on the agenda at political level. Two days ago, Conner Rousseau tweeted into the world wondering who else he had to convince of the usefulness of the measure. I just heard Minister Van der Straeten announce in the TV programme Villa Politica that the Greens also want to put a VAT reduction on the agenda again. Mr Minister, my question is clear. Will you reduce VAT on energy? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u48	What we all feared happened this morning, unfortunately. Russia's invading Ukraine. It is, of course, terrible news for the people of Ukraine at first. However, anyone who thinks it's a far-from-my-bed show is thoroughly wrong. After all, we'll all feel it. Oil prices are rising and the price of gas has risen by more than 30% today. Just at a time when the energy bill for our families and companies is already sky high, that's another thing. Fortunately, at the beginning of this month, the government has already taken a number of measures to reduce the rising bill for families, such as the temporary reduction of VAT for electricity, the one-off heating premium and the extended social rate. Many people had a hard time paying their bill yesterday. How will they be able to pay their energy bill tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, given that the gas price has risen by 30% today? That's what we're worried about. How will we protect their purchasing power? Life will be more expensive and the water is already on the lips of many people. The situation is therefore particularly alarming. Doing nothing is not an option anymore. Structural measures must therefore be put in place quickly. Several structural measures were already on the table, such as the introduction of a reverse cliquet system and a smart VAT reduction, as you suggested. CD&V was and is still in favour of the temporary reduction of gas VAT. Now that the gas price is exploding, the reduction of VAT on gas comes back on the table. Can you clarify that? When can we expect structural measures again?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u49	Thank you for the questions, colleagues. It has already been made clear here today: dramatic events are taking place in Ukraine and we need to be aware of its impact on our economy and, among other things, on the price of energy. This deserves the utmost attention, both at Belgian and European level. The energy bill has been putting a lot of pressure on our families for many months. Today, as Mrs Dierick said, we are seeing strong price fluctuations following the crisis in Ukraine. A long-term evolution is difficult to estimate today. The measures we took with the federal government in October last year and early February this year were important and necessary support. But even then, we knew that more was needed to protect our families from abrupt price fluctuations. When we reached our agreement in February, it was very clearly agreed that the Energy Minister and I would continue to work on the fundamental reform of the energy bill: a VAT reduction combined with a tax reform, which would make our energy bill less sensitive to sudden price shocks, as we are experiencing today. Mrs van der Straeten and myself have taken this task to heart. We have worked very hard on this. Very soon we will report on this to the government. In addition, the proposal of the reverse cliquet system for prices at the pump is still on the government table. We have already agreed in the government that the possible roll-out and timing of the measures will soon be discussed and weighed up in the government, and we will, of course, be following developments at European and international level with great interest. Colleagues, I think we are all aware of the impact of energy prices on our energy bill and on inflation. The issue is also high on the agenda of the Ecofin meeting, to which I will be leaving shortly. As Minister of Finance, I will share with my European colleagues your and also my concern about the impact of the energy bill on families. We will also be working on this in the coming period.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Important measures have indeed already been taken. The colleague of the PVDA forgot to mention the social rate. This is an important measure for 1 million families in our country. It is good that you are also working on a structural solution, Minister; in any case, the situation in Europe and the long-term high energy prices show to me that the reduction of VAT to 6%, which our party has always advocated, must definitely be achieved. I am sure we can do that, Minister. We have already met many challenges with the government. We managed the corona crisis. The government will also invest heavily in defence and security. I am convinced that we will also find an appropriate solution to the challenges of the energy crisis. I look forward to the result and I wish you a lot of fun in Paris.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u51	Minister, I am a little disappointed because I thought the CD&V was defending the reduction of VAT on gas and electricity. I didn't hear you say it clearly today. You are also saying that you are going to discuss this with your European colleagues. What I am asking you is to talk about this here to colleagues in your government and to take action here. Indeed, your colleagues in Europe will probably ask you how VAT on gas and electricity is 21% in Belgium. Perhaps this must be rectified first. In any case, one thing is clear. Today, there is growing support at the political level (the Greens, Vooruit, the PTB). Talk to the government about it. We recently received the CREG report which says that there is a way to charge more ENGIE Electrabel precisely to finance this kind of measure. We will continue to mobilize this Sunday, in Brussels, for the reduction of VAT and to circulate our petition.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer and for your commitment. Never before has the concern about the affordability of the energy bill been so great. Good measures have already been taken, but the crisis in Ukraine forces us to move forward. We've got to do it fast. You have already done a lot of preparatory work and have already calculated a lot of measures, such as the smart VAT reduction and the reverse cliquet system. As far as we are concerned, they can be introduced as soon as possible. Especially with the exploding gas prices, it is clear to CD&V that the temporary reduction in gas VAT will come back on the table and that we will recalculate it so that we can introduce that measure. The need is very high and there is no time to lose. I wish you every success and hope that measures will be taken quickly for all families.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u53	Madam Minister, I am in favour of following up the lively debate we had last week in our committee on the sectoral agreement between you and the police unions on wage increases. Weeks after you stated that you had a good deal of agreement, it turns out that you haven't quite got the file in order after all. Today it even seems that no one is in agreement with the proposed protocol agreement. First of all, you could only convince half the police unions. Your own Christian supporters have also declared the agreement "insufficient'. Secondly, the mayors are really worried about the financial pressure they cannot cope with today. They also feel not sufficiently heard. Thirdly, the timing of the second phase is a bit strange. You want to start negotiations in January 2024, to close them, hopefully, in April. But that timing means that the current governments will have to govern this, not the new ones. They will therefore not be able to take this into account in their multiannual planning. It is striking that even the VVSG agrees with the dissatisfaction about timing, the lack of consultation, and the financing of the various aspects of these wage negotiations. Today we get the icing on the cake. We hear that it is also rumbling about this agreement within your own government. In short, Madam Minister, unfortunately you are not doing a fantastic course with this dossier. On the contrary. If this plan is really as good as you have been saying all along, can you tell me where the support of the local authorities is, where the support of the unions is, and especially when you get the support of your coalition partners within the Vivaldi government?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u54	Madam Minister, two weeks ago, in the Committee on the Interior, we had an extensive debate on the wage agreement. You said that you had an agreement with two trade unions, which would enter into next year, would cost EUR 121 million in the first phase and that you would ask for that money in the budget for 2023. You also said at the time that it was not the intention to allow funding to be made available by local authorities. Yesterday, the Association of Flemish Cities and Municipalities (VVSG) confirmed that the cities and municipalities will indeed not contribute. In this hemisphere there are many mayors, I talk to many of them, including from other parties. They all confirm to me that there is no room for the local authorities to add these burdens. In addition to a trajectory for the wage agreement, a final solution for the NAVAP scheme was also requested. There is no agreement with the trade unions. It will cost 40 or 50 million euros. Once again, there is a risk that the account will be transferred to local authorities when the federal government stops funding the police zones. Yesterday, you made a number of points clear in the press. But I still have a few specific questions. Will you ask for these 121 million euros in the budget format of 2023? Will the traffic penalty fund be used for this, because that is also what I hear in the corridors? Will the cities and municipalities not contribute in the first phase? Is there a solution in sight for the NAVAP scheme? And another crucial question: what is the role of the VVSG and its sister companies in that consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u55	Mrs Goethals, there are people who see a glass half-empty and there are people who see a glass half-full. It is a good thing that we were able to reach an interim agreement on 28 January on improving the conditions of pay of police officers. The two largest police unions have taken their responsibilities, for which I am grateful to them, because it is an important step that can be taken after 20 years of standstill. The interim agreement concerns the blighting wage increases in which the people of the operational framework of the police will receive an increase in salary on the basis of their situation between EUR 40 and EUR 70 net per month. For the starting prospective inspectors, the amount will be even higher. As regards the administrative and logistical framework of police personnel, the difference with the public office is eliminated. That is also a question that has been asked for a long time. We in the committee have already had the opportunity to discuss this further, including the questions of the other trade unions who were at the table. It is also important that, in addition to the intermediate agreement on the quantitative part, we also talk about a qualitative part, working on the necessary adjustments of the police officer's job to make the job even more attractive. That route is running, but I believe it will never end, because it is a permanent effort to improve the status of police officers. Mrs Goethals, Mr Vandenput, you also had questions about the financing of the interim agreement. It will be discussed and included, as planned, in the discussions on budgetary control which will take place in about a month's time. However, there is only an impact from the year 2023, so the final agreements should be established at the latest in the budget format for 2023. I cannot therefore anticipate the outcome of the debate on funding, but it has always been my practice to take account of the budgetary context of local authorities. I've always taken them to the table in the negotiations. Mrs Goethals, I have told you on several occasions that there has never been anyone as closely involved with the local authorities in the negotiations as I have. The system is what it is: it is the Minister of the Interior who is conducting the negotiations, but in the interests of the local authorities I have regularly consulted them to see how we could deal with the matter further. It has always been my practice to limit the budgetary impact on local authorities. I am really an ally of the municipalities in this matter. It is important that we respect the local authorities in the additional tasks they had to take in, including in corona times. So we are looking for a solution. I can repeat here that in the meantime I have noted that a number of colleagues from different political groups in the hemisphere also support me in the exercise and ambition to keep the invoice for local authorities limited. For the follow-up to 2024 we agreed with the trade unions that we should start with this in 2024. It is not illogical, not even in a government context, that wage conditions are monitored every two years. That fits perfectly into the schedule we agreed on. I'd like to stick to that, too. The NAVAP scheme was decided by the previous government, but never received sustainable funding. We absolutely need to look at it more broadly than just the financial picture. We must retain the senior expertise within the police, in order to keep the police as experienced as possible, but we must also, of course, look at the affordability of the system. The current government has the ambition to increase the level of activity, not only for the police, but also for other target groups. For me, those exercises go hand in hand. However, we are working on it together with the police summit and the police unions. In any case, the outstanding issues cannot keep me from the ambition to conclude the necessary, good and necessary sectoral agreement and to improve the status of police officers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u56	Madam Minister, I think that you will have to take into account the comments of both the mayors and the VVSG in the first place. Secondly, you know that the timing of reaching an agreement in which everyone will be able to agree is not entirely right. So you cannot completely transfer that second phase to the cities and the municipalities, not if you want to find a partner in it. Thirdly, the double task assigned to you by the nuclear cabinet, in particular the wage increase that had to be linked to the extinct NAVAP scheme, has also not been successful. The trade unions held their ground, but today we read in the newspaper that a Deputy Prime Minister said that the federal government cannot be expected to take over both the wage increase and the NAVAP scheme.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u57	Madam Minister, I am pleased to hear that you will do everything in your budgetary control and format to keep that funding at the federal level and that you will take into account the financial context of the local authorities. As you yourself say, tasks are added every year without always having to pay for them. I am pleased to hear that you are an ally of the local authorities, but I would nevertheless advise you to keep the distance between the VVSG and the two other organisations small, so that you can consult with them. Basically, I think that if someone has to pay for it, they should also be able to decide. The VVSG and the two other organisations should therefore be able to decide at the table and not just give advice, as is the case today. Perhaps we should reverse negotiations in the future, without any certainty of money, because of the concern of the local authorities (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u58	Madam President, Madam Minister, our confidence in the government's willingness to seriously manage Belgium's energy future, taking into account both security of supply, household costs and the climate transition, was already low, but it collapsed a little more yesterday. According to the press, the CREG would have given you a report on security of supply on 1 February. You hid it. It should have been put online when you received it, which was not done. It was published briefly yesterday to be immediately withdrawn on the pretext that it was not definitive, which is false. In this report, CREG questions the data of Elias, who believes that one to two additional gas-fired power plants would be needed for the winter of 2026-2027, when we are in the midst of an international crisis. Two things - and the two hypotheses are extremely worrying - either, we will need one or two additional power plants or we will not need them. And Elia, who has private interests, who may have conflicts of interest, claims that we might need them. We are therefore dependent on a publicly traded organization, which has private interests, to assess our gas needs and which could put its private interests ahead of the nation's interests. You depend on this organization to assess what our needs will be. All this is frightening, disturbing, nebulous! Minister, I would like to know whether the objective is to serve the interests of Engie, Elia or others or whether the objective is to serve the interests of the nation. Do we really need these power plants? What about today? We hope that clarity will finally be given to this issue, which I believe is very badly managed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u59	Madam Minister, I heard the Prime Minister say to Mr Wollants that the decision on the energy future of our country for the next 15 years would be taken on 18 March on the basis of reports. These reports are tedious: a report by CREG on the winter of 2026-2027 casts doubt on Elia's calculations of security of supply. According to the regulator, Elia's data lead to a significant increase in the need for new capacities. There is nothing surprising: Elia said the same in the previous legislature. The 4 GWs that are missing are three or four gas-fired power plants and not two as you anticipated in the CRM. Kris Peeters, of Elia, swept the thing away at a press conference yesterday but the report of the CREG was published properly since the law requires it to be tabled on 1 February. The press was in possession of a letter addressed to you. This letter was sent to you because the report was finalized and indicated that it had been approved by CREG. In view of all these elements disseminated in the press, one cannot speak of an accidental publication on the website of the CREG, one cannot speak of an incomplete report. Minister, we've already asked you in committee, but now it's very serious. I would like you to clarify this strategic dossier for our country and this report. When will this report be available to Parliament for wide debate? You stated in committee that you had requested a study on possible methodological improvements for CRM. I would like to understand what that means. Can you tell us whether or not you are asking for details based on your will and what you want to change in this report?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already answered these questions in committee last Tuesday, when I was asked about the same subject, in particular the reports, the studies and the various proposals to be submitted by the end of March. At the end of March, the volume of CRM will be decided and a series of documents must be available to do so. This begins with a report by Elia, a proposal for an opinion by CREG, an opinion by my administration and, finally, a second opinion by Elias. Last Tuesday, I confirmed to the committee that I would come to committee with all these documents. In the vote here in Parliament, it was agreed by a large majority that Parliament would be consulted on all documents before a decision was taken on the volume of the CRM, as was done last year. Last year, before deciding, I came to committee with all the documents and we had a broad debate on all the documents. Tuesday, I said I would do the same thing. This proposal by the CREG is being strongly debated today. That was also the case on Tuesday in committee. What is it? The CREG made a proposal on the basis of a report by Elias. CREG found that it had to make its proposal no later than 1 February, a date which it wanted to comply with since it was included in the electricity law. But at a meeting, she confirmed to me that she did not have the full information to give me an adequate opinion. What did I do then? After my meeting with CREG, as I said on Tuesday, I wrote to Elia to provide the data that CREG needs. Yesterday, Elia gave CREG the requested data report. Now it is again up to the CREG to take a stand. All documents will be available by the end of the month. I will come to Parliament with all these documents, before deciding, to consult it on what we are going to do. As for the issue of publication or non-publication, I refer to the CREG itself. The CREG said - and I have already answered on Tuesday - that this was a problem internally, at home. There is only one answer to all your questions: it is full transparency in the CRM file. Since I became a minister, transparency has always been my leitmotiv. I have always come with all the documents, with all the reports in committee and in plenary. They have always been debated and will not go any differently this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u61	Minister, not only are you not responding to the substance, but you are adding a layer of anxiety and uncertainty. You are telling us that the CREG has internal problems, that it is not ready, but you are not responding to the Elias report, nor to those gas needs that would increase during the winter of 26-27. And you dare talk about transparency! I can tell you that for me, an opposition Member, there is absolutely no transparency. There's only chaos in this case, confusion. This has been going on for months, and in a strategic area for Belgium, in an international crisis that shows us how much we need to make clear decisions on the basis of objective figures, in the shortest possible time. That's not what you do.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u62	Madam Minister, you responded as you could, trying to rely on a procedure and putting your position away from the real situation, which is very worrying for all Belgian households and the energy policy of this country. It is therefore obvious that trust is being eroded. We will be extremely vigilant, because it is not a matter of coming with these documents after the battle. You announce that you will come here before making a decision. However, it will be taken at the end of March. In addition, the Prime Minister indicated that it was to be done by the government on March 18. So, we need to know exactly what's going on. When I consult the electricity law, I see that the decision is to be taken at the end of March. When will the government decide? Will Parliament be consulted before the government takes its decision? To follow you, it will, but we will check it out. Do you find it normal that the regulator does not disclose the necessary documents to the CREG? Should the bank regulator complain that bankers do not provide him with the necessary documents to carry out his work? If he didn't receive them, it would be a scandal! Has the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN), which is also the regulator vis-à-vis Engie, already complained (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u63	This concludes our question and answer session. Minister, I invite you to go to the Mercator Hall for the Energy Committee, which will begin right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, since the first two items on the agenda concern the Minister of Energy, who is to go to committee, I propose that you start with item 3 on our agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u65	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u66	The rapporteur, Mr Vanbesien, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u67	Madam President, I fully understand the need to move items on the agenda, but I really should vote in committee now. Madam Minister, I believe that maintaining and ensuring the functioning of the internal market is essential. It is particularly important to give the Competition Authority powers that are properly regulated. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, we have been particularly critical of the transposition of a number of European directives in the past, but of course we welcome this transposition. However, I have to say again that this transposition is far too late. I have raised a number of critical questions and reservations about this draft law in committee. When I went through the report of the Council of State, I saw that it had reservations, among other things, about the fee to be paid. There was talk of a lump sum, but it was not known on what basis. We therefore believe that it would be much more useful to opt for a different calculation basis, for example depending on turnover. In other words, we want a progressive rate instead of a lump sum. Another consideration that we have raised, a point which the Council of State also had reservations about, had to do with the evidence obtained. The draft law says that documents that are not related to the investigation may be returned, but, of course, something that can be returned is not the same as something that needs to be returned. In any event, I believe that the parties concerned could be harmed. We must avoid that. Furthermore, no refund period is included in the draft law. I therefore believe that it would be appropriate to ensure that the documents which are not related to the investigation should be returned within a certain period of time. Nor does the draft law provide for any possibility of appeal. It even explicitly states that no appeal can be made. For this reason, however much we welcome this draft, I shall again be tabling two amendments today which will be put to the vote shortly. With the first amendment, we want to supplement Article 17. Following a search carried out by the Belgian Competition Authority, a written statement of reasons must be provided within 14 days to demonstrate the causal link between the information acquired and its relevance to the investigation. The aim of our amendment is therefore to establish a duty of motivation and information for searches, because transparency is particularly important. The second amendment amends Article 20. In our opinion, documents and data that are not related to the subject matter should be returned within 14 days. The wording of the draft law on this subject is currently rather non-binding, which could harm the companies concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore in favour of an obligation linked to a specific timetable. On top of that, we would like to delete the passage which states that there is no right of appeal. If our two amendments are adopted, we believe that this draft law will be perfect.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u68	Madam President, first of all, allow me to excuse Minister Pierre-Yves Dermagne, who is ill. I would like to make it clear that the government is obviously not following the proposal on both amendments. For reading the answers given in committee, I believe that all the answers are contained in the report as it has been distributed to all parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u69	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u70	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2388/7) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2388/7) OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. The title in Dutch was changed by the Committee to "draft law transposing Directive (EU) 2019/1 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 conferring powers on the competition authorities of the Member States for more effective enforcement and ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market'. The bill has 76 articles. The draft law contains 76 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u71	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u72	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open The rapporteur is Mr Piedboeuf, who refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is the partial transposition of a European directive which amends the earlier directive on the harmonisation of the structure of excise duties on alcohol and alcoholic beverages. I would like to make an intervention because we have tabled amendments which I would like to explain here. It is true that only the mandatory provisions of this directive are transposed. It also provides for a reduced rate of excise duty on beverages from small producers. The Directive increases the possibility for Member States to reduce excise duties on small producers. Moreover, the threshold for the highest tax rate also increases. That is a good thing in itself. However, our group does not support the general principle of this directive, in particular the desire to harmonise excise duties for this sector, despite many different characteristics in the different Member States of the EU. The imposition of excise duties on alcohol and alcoholic beverages is, or should be, strictly national competence for us. As I have already said, the possibility of extending the reduced rate for small independent producers of beer and ethyl alcohol to small independent producers of other alcoholic beverages is envisaged. Unfortunately, however, the government does not yet want to make use of this possibility of enlargement. What does that mean in concrete terms? Small independent local producers of liqueurs, distillates or wines thus fall out of the boat. That is why we have tabled amendments which make the reduced rate applicable to small independent producers of alcoholic beverages other than beer and ethyl alcohol. The reduction in excise duty we are proposing is proposed within the limits allowed by the directive. This percentage reduction corresponds to the most favourable reduction currently applicable for beer with the lowest Plato degree brewed in small independent breweries. The Minister considered that this initiative did not fit in with this technical transposition, which was necessary to clarify the legislation. The Minister also tried to deny the competitive disadvantage in the case where other countries would apply a reduced rate of excise duty. His reasoning in itself was that the Belgian rates apply regardless of where the wine is produced. If the small Belgian producers would sell in other countries which have chosen to apply a reduced rate to small producers, that reduced rate would also apply to the Belgian small producer selling in that country, irrespective of whether Belgium provides a reduced rate. The Minister is not here, which I can understand in the light of the current circumstances. I actually wanted to ask him whether there is a level playing field here. The current situation implies that wine from a local producer in Belgium is taxed with a higher excise duty than beer from a local producer. We are also ignoring the phenomenon of cross-border sales. That is perhaps the most important aspect. Shopping in northern France is an exemplary example in my province. No one can deny that producers in other countries with lower rates of excise duty can take higher profit margins in their own country and thus increase their price. That's simple logic. We know what will eventually happen to our amendments and we will abstain from voting on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u74	Madam Chair, Minister, the text under review deals with excise duties on alcoholic beverages. The changes made are quite slight. This is a missed opportunity to reform particularly unfair taxes. Indeed, it is known that taxes on consumer goods are generally unfair taxes. The liberal current, which is a little off-the-shelf, likes to favour these taxes, unlike progressive taxes such as the PPI. That was the meaning of the tax shift. I repeat, these taxes are the most unfair because it is the people who have the least income, who consume all their income, who are the most affected. In the present case, these taxes are of two kinds since they concern the rates of excise duty on alcohol and alcoholic beverages. As I like the teaching virtues of the examples, I will give you one to show you how these taxes are unfair. If you will, Madam President, let us take a bottle of Cabernet Sauvignon from Aldi, which costs 2.69 euros. What are the taxes on this bottle? There is VAT and excise duties. If you aggregate both, it represents more than half the price of the bottle. Let us look at the excise duties which, on such a bottle, amount to 52 cents. In other words, if one considers that its tax-free price is EUR 1.74, that is 30%. Now let's take a bottle of Château Cheval Blanc which is one of the most famous Saint-Émilion in France whose estate was bought, a few years ago, by Albert Frère and his compare Bernard Arnault, one of the world's greatest fortunes. Both families are still in possession of this castle. This bottle is available for sale at 1,164 euros. You will have noticed that its price is higher than that of Aldi's bottle. If you make the same comparison between the amount of excise duty and the amount without tax, you are no longer talking about 30% excise duty, but 0.05%. If you compare the two rates, the Cabernet Sauvignon bottle from Aldi is taxed 600 times more than the Château Cheval Blanc bottle. My example is caricatural, for I have quoted two wines quite distant from each other, but it explains why these taxes on consumption are particularly unfair. VAT is already proportional, so everyone pays the same rate regardless of their income. In this case, we are faced with a regressive tax, since the lower the income, the higher the tax rate. This is a way to open the discussion on tax reform at the birth of which we may be witnessing under this government, even if it seems far from being won. This gives us the opportunity to question the dogma that certain taxes must be reduced by increasing taxes on consumption. I have tried to show, through this example, how socially unjust such taxes are.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you understand that I am replacing Minister Van Peteghem here. Mr Ravyts, I have not seen the discussion in committee, but I have, of course, understood what the amendments you have defended are about. I can, of course, go back to the arguments that Minister Van Peteghem has already given you. You actually used his own argument. I will not repeat them, therefore, which makes no sense. I would like to add something that you did not mention, namely that he indicated that a budgetary calculation would be necessary for your proposals. According to his assessment, the proposals you are making will complicate the structure of excise duties, which could make controls more difficult. It also adds that there are already reduced rates for wine, other fermented beverages and intermediate products based on the actual alcoholic strength by volume of the product. You didn't mention that. I would like to add this point to the reasons why your amendments were not stopped by Minister Van Peteghem. Mr Van Hees, I very much liked the example you gave. You have only talked about excise duties, but there is still a mechanism by which there will be more taxes on the most expensive bottles. You didn't convince me to follow you in your argument. On the other hand, I understand that you are waiting with interest and curiosity for the proposals for tax reform that will be presented by my colleague Van Peteghem. We can then resume this discussion on the substance and I have no doubt that you will propose further examples and calculations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u76	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u77	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2438/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2438/4) The bill has 10 articles. The draft law has 10 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u78	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u79	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u80	Madam Chair, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u81	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is of course important for the large profession of pharmacists, but even more so for all patients. The fact that the draft did not come to plenary earlier illustrates how difficult it has been. The whole process has dragged on for quite some time, but the pharmacists have used this time to organize themselves, to provide training and to inform themselves. In this way, they can perform that function correctly, carefully and expertly when the competence is assigned to them. This is, of course, also expected of them as providers of care. Why allow the pharmacist to be vaccinated in the vaccination campaign against covid? The aim is to organise the widest possible range of patients. And the pharmacist has been a low-threshold care provider for many years, who, in the first place, assists patients with advice and deed. The pharmacists themselves have also indicated that they want to play a role in the pandemic. For example, the test policy has taken shape, as a rapid registered antigen test could be carried out at the pharmacist, under the expert guidance that a patient may also expect. But, Minister and colleagues, it is not all roses and moonshine. It is a pity that the federal government and you, as Health Minister, have missed the opportunity to get key figures in primary care to work hand in hand. The N-VA Group has advocated this from the outset. Ladies and gentlemen, we will support the draft law, but we urge once again that the amendment that we have tabled be approved so that cooperation between general practitioners and domestic pharmacists can take shape. In what way can we get the widest range in the vaccination campaign? That's just, by working on all the different fronts, which today as a word is difficult, and corners. With the vaccination centres we have launched a large-scale campaign. In Flanders she was absolutely a success. More than 90% of people have registered. The booster shot is also running. It could be even better, more thorough and faster. Secondly, there was vaccination through the mobile teams, with which we also have quite nice results. For example, in the city of Ghent, where my pharmacy is located, there is now another call to go with mobile teams to fixed entities, so patients can go there and get vaccinated. So that means we're gonna bet on going to the patient. However, there are the two main pillars that need to be added, namely the general practitioner, who can organise a vaccination campaign in his own practice in collaboration with the house pharmacist, and the house pharmacist, who will be able to vaccinate with today's bill and certainly reach the patients who do not often go to the general practitioner today, have no overall medical record and are more difficult to reach. Examples from abroad also show that it is those patients who are vaccinated at the pharmacist. Efforts have been made to set up a vaccination campaign for the general practitioner through the vaccination centres. However, they have not really been a success. Why weren't they really a success? That is because the distance between the general practitioner's practice and the vaccination centre was often too far. Every doctor's practice has a house pharmacist around the corner. In a partnership, it would therefore be optimal for the general practitioner to go up to the house pharmacist, to set up a vaccination weekend, a vaccination afternoon or more together. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment tabled by our N-VA Group was voted out in committee, but I invite you all to approve our amendment in this plenary session. The Minister said that he would work on this cooperation by means of a royal decision. However, I have experience with royal decisions, or rather, waiting for them. For example, we have been waiting two years for a royal decision to implement a bill of mine. For a vaccination campaign, of course, two years is very long. We can ensure, in the law that we approve today, that the general practitioners are involved in the vaccination campaign. This can be a very nice signal with regard to the whole first line, which together ensures the reboost and can attract patients for a first vaccination. Hand in hand, working together, primary care can guarantee the vaccination campaign. You still have time to think about it. In committee I have heard some critical questions about the house pharmacist. When the house pharmacist goes into vaccination, does he or she have sufficient access to the medical data? The answer is yes, of course, because through the shared pharmaceutical file, every pharmacist has access to the medical records of the patients, which are registered on the basis of their national registry number. In order to be vaccinated, registration is required. On the basis of the pharmaceutical file, the pharmacist can assess the patient's pathologies. Questions have also been asked about possible allergic reactions induced by the covid vaccine. Most allergic reactions occur against polyethylene glycol, which we know from findings in the vaccination centers. In the training that the pharmacist receives in order to be declared a vaccineator, the roadmap is very clearly addressed. The history, which is carried out in a vaccination center by a nurse, is included in that schematic. That is a very important point. It is also important that the official has sufficient space, an aseptic preparation area and planning, in which a patient enters, gets his history, receives a vaccine and finally has to wait 15 minutes. All aspects, points of criticism and concerns have been taken into account by the professional association and by the universities both providing the training as a vaccineator. It has often been the case in the vaccination campaign that we need to be able to vaccinate more. The maximum was 500,000 vaccinations per week, at peak moments it was 1 million patients per week. Let's do a little math here. A survey asked which pharmacists would like to participate in the campaign: there are 752 in Flanders and 500 in Wallonia. In Flanders, if one Moderna vaccine per day is used for three boosters, 85,000 vaccines per week can be administered to domestic pharmacists and 56,000 vaccines in Wallonia. That is a whole package, which is a large number of people who can get their vaccine from their trusted person, who is the pharmacist anyway. There were also some concerns about civil liabilities, but they were also refuted. That's included in the pharmacist's insurance. I have a point of criticism, Minister. If the bill is adopted today and the law is published, we will be able to implement it, but you do not yet have an answer on the remuneration of the pharmacist. It is good that the pharmacists are allowed to do that, but it has not yet been agreed what they will earn. You have not yet reached agreement on this, and you had no idea, at least in committee, how much resources you would allocate to ensure that the pharmacist, who has followed the training, the webinars and the schematics on vaccines today, who has informed his practice and contacted his staff, and who also has the IT almost ready, is paid for his work. It is therefore necessary, when a profession is asked to make an effort, to set resources against it. What has not yet been cleared is how these vaccines will be supplied. Will that happen through the wholesaler or through a hospital hub? Will the cold chain, on which so much emphasis has been placed, be guaranteed? These vaccines are very sensitive, both shock and temperature sensitive. These matters must therefore be cleared up before we can take effective action. As you know, Minister, that action is awaited. Especially in an urban context the demand is high and the need is high, because the vaccination rate is not yet what it should be. I have also heard concerns about training from colleagues. The fact that this training is organized by the professions, in cooperation with the universities, reassures me. What reassures me even more is that this training must be repeated within three years. I myself experienced this week that refreshing the first aid course is good and that we are more alert and that we can save a life. That three-year cycle seems to me to be something to take with it to other healthcare professionals too, to take with it in the regular accreditation and further training. The difference is sometimes only a few seconds, let alone a minute, and it is in those seconds that the refreshment of the training can make the difference. Ladies and gentlemen, our group supports this draft, with one exception, where we would very much like our amendment to be adopted. We remain in favour of cooperation in the first line between general practitioners and domestic pharmacists. The patient's frame-up can only be optimal if we commit to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u82	Madam Chair, Minister, this project has been discussed at length in committee. However, I would like to return to this in plenary because the conclusions of the hearings on the obligation to vaccinate show that we need to think about reconnecting people who are no longer in contact with the health care system. In this context, both pharmacists and nurses have a role to play in prevention as community health professionals. It would therefore be legitimate to invest them fully and sustainably in this public health mission. This bill is moving in the right direction, but for us, it is a first step because it would be interesting to evaluate this measure and to proactively think about expanding it to include nurses. We've already discussed it. This possibility may not have been mentioned in the vaccination task force, but during the hearings many experts felt that this would increase the rate of vaccination in a structural way, especially for people furthest from the health care system. Mr.Minister, we will of course support your bill and come back to the actualization of this enlargement, as you proposed in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u83	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal allows pharmacists to prescribe, distribute and administer the covid vaccine in the public official. The draft law was once again given the urgency to alleviate the acute need for vaccinators. We do not understand that after a year of vaccination, there would still be an acute need for vaccines. Nor do we have the impression that there is now a rush in the vaccination centres and that the structure would not be able to sustain it now. On the question of whether the delegation is connected with the closure of vaccination centres, you replied in the negative in committee. So it doesn't matter. So the proposal is very bizarre, because, as I said, there is no rush at all on the vaccination centres and they can handle the vaccination schedule perfectly. The question of whether pharmacists should be allowed to vaccinate at all is a question of proximity and accessibility of care. For the Flemish interest, it is clear that health care should be as close to the patient as possible and that therefore the primary health care should be strong and broad, so that as many patients as possible can go to their trusted environment and to their medical confidant. This is primarily the general practitioner and the pharmacist is certainly part of it. In itself, therefore, we have no problem with pharmacists being vaccinated, as long as everything is safe. However, there is one but. We find it strange that this delegates a task of doctors to a healthcare professional who is not allowed to do so in normal circumstances, while making it very difficult for the general practitioners to vaccinate their patients in practice. My question on a committee basis whether general practitioners should refer their patients who cannot or do not want to be vaccinated in a vaccination centre to the pharmacist remains unanswered. That would certainly be absurd. Moreover, pharmacists are rewarded for their performance, but for general practitioners who would like to vaccinate in their practice, there is nothing so far. So there are apparently no plans to integrate covid vaccination into regular general practitioner care. We do have questions about that. It is strange that there was no or very little consultation with the general practitioners. This shows little respect for our general practitioners, who have been in the line of fire for two years. In committee, you made the following point: I quote from the report - 'There is no time limit in the draft law either. The pharmacist can thus play a more active role in the current campaign and in future booster campaigns, but it is clear that the bill only deals with the fight against the coronavirus." What does that mean, Minister? Does it mean that the booster campaign will be extended? Does it mean that a booster has to be obtained every six months or an annual to be in order with the CST? How about we never get rid of the CST? The CST will be in sleep mode someday, but apparently it will never really be gone. How are we supposed to see that in concrete terms? After which syringe will a green check mark appear? What happens if one is missed? These questions may not be entirely relevant here, but that is why they are no less pertinent, Mr Minister, because we did not get a clear answer to Mrs Pass's question to the Prime Minister just now. Maybe you can give it to me later. Mr Minister, first of all, for the Flemish interest it is clear that the draft law will be late, because the great wave of vaccination is already over. In it, the vaccination centres and the volunteers proved that they could do it perfectly. Secondly, we are having difficulty with the fact that the tasks of general practitioners are being undermined and that tasks belonging to general practitioners are being delegated to other health professionals. Thirdly, we are very sorry that the general practitioners were not or hardly involved. For these three reasons, we shall abstain from the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u84	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law allows official pharmacists to administer the covid vaccine in the pharmacy, subject to specific training. I want to be clear, we are not against vaccination by pharmacists. So we are not against the principle. However, this draft law lacks a broad vision and a long-term strategy for both the organisation of primary health care and the strategy to tackle the pandemic. This is actually more of a fast-track measure that does not provide definitive answers. For a few reasons which I shall now raise, we shall abstain from the vote. Firstly, vaccination has so far been mainly carried out in vaccination centres, but they will close at the end of March. Actually, there's absolutely no plan for how to proceed. We all know that there is a great chance that a booster shot will have to be given at some point. Maybe there'll be an annual vaccination. However, there is no long-term plan in this area. Today, the general practitioners, albeit in a rather cumbersome way, can vaccinate their patients by ordering vaccines at the vaccination centre, but how will this happen afterwards, if they still want to vaccinate people while the vaccination centres are closed? So that's not solved. Minister, you said in committee that this had nothing to do with it. You can, of course, say that both matters have nothing to do with each other, and I also understand that these two matters have been decided in a different way, but on the ground they are not separate from each other. GPs are wondering how things are going to go next. What will be the impact of this decision on their role in the possible further roll-out of the vaccination campaign? Actually, we think that's a missed opportunity. In the vaccination centres, we have seen a positive cooperation between pharmacists, general practitioners, nurses and all the other staff. This positive cooperation was not performance-related or competitive. Everyone contributed to this, together they made sure that the population was vaccinated. Allowing vaccination centres to continue in the same way in the long term is, of course, not sustainable. So we need to think about a much more finer network of small vaccination centres that could also become prevention centres. They could therefore work on other cases and, for example, assist in testing and tracing. Sometimes the vaccination centres and the test centres also coincide. Some local first-line areas are also actively involved in this and are working out concrete proposals for this. However, they are still projects which have not yet been generalised. You actually provide some kind of performance-related funding, so that pharmacists will normally be paid per performance. That way they can get the cheese off the sandwich of some general practitioners. In fact, it is a pity to introduce it that way. It actually sets pharmacists and general practitioners against each other again, while there was a positive cooperation in the field that was not performance-related. No one was paid per administered syringe in the vaccination centres. Here it is decided that the pharmacists may vaccinate, but in itself no performance fee has yet been agreed with the RIZIV. It is therefore not yet clear who the pharmacists will pay for these services. I am not in favour of the performance model, but the pharmacists involved must be financed. If they put stings and it's performance-related, then of course they have to be paid for those performances. You have not been able to guarantee anything in this respect. You said that prevention is a matter for the regions. How would the regions then have to or can afford these benefits? This is certainly a matter which will probably not be cleared up soon, because there is a lot of squabbling among the nine Health Ministers. Look what happened to the self-tests. You thought the federal government shouldn't pay them because they're covered by prevention. So there is no guarantee that this will end well, we can only hope for that. For us now, after the corona crisis, there is momentum to see how primary care can be organised in a different way. We should also move away from performance-oriented funding and opt for a model of cooperation. Then one can think about how to keep people healthy. This requires a population funding, with positive cooperation between all the first-line actors. We've seen that in the vaccination centers, among other things. It would therefore be a missed opportunity if we failed to develop it sustainably.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u85	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Covid-19 has taught us one thing after two years. That's why the pandemic won't be predicted. So we do not know how many doses of covid vaccines will eventually be needed. It is therefore important that we have sufficient professionals who can administer the vaccine when the vaccination centres are closed. In Brussels, experiments were already carried out with great success with vaccination in pharmacies. We have also discussed this in detail in committee. That is why we will, of course, support the draft law. It may be useful to increase the vaccination rate in certain regions. Accessibility is an important condition for increasing the vaccination rate. In this respect, it is a good thing that the possibility of vaccination will be offered by the pharmacist. However, we also need to think further in the long term. It is useful to examine whether, for example, the general practitioner cannot have vaccines which he or she can administer immediately if a patient is on consultation with him. The alternative is that the general practitioner first convinces the person concerned to go to the pharmacist afterwards. We believe that the ease of a one-stop shopping system together with improving access to vaccines could increase the vaccination rate. A number of Members have raised the matter and we are of course not deaf to the concerns of the medical syndicates. They have expressed a number of concerns in this regard. They fear that caregivers will compete with each other. We know that this is a sensitive issue and a sensitive debate. We therefore call for a wider debate to be held on which caregiver may take longer-term action. In any case, in the context of vaccination with the covid vaccine, we will certainly approve the draft law before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u86	Mr.Minister, I think you understood this after the discussions we had in committee: we will not support your bill, for four main reasons. First, in substance, you present this project as necessary, but the reality is that this project is first and foremost the result of bad choices that have been made upstream. He has missed and still lacks real support, including logistical and practical, for general practitioners, so that they can effectively immunize easily, in any case under the best possible conditions, against covid-19. I've already told you and told you again, for those living next to a vaccination centre, it's simple, but 99% of citizens don't live next to a vaccination centre. Apart from the travel checklist of an impossible organization, indeed, there is still no facilitation of vaccination against covid-19 for general practitioners, in the firm, in the confidence that is known between the doctor and his patient. The second reason why we will not support your project is that it creates a precedent that is problematic, because it makes it possible to confuse the one who prescribes and the one who delivers. And it is healthy, Minister, that it is healthy in our health care system to avoid financial benefits for those who prescribe, as the Council of State rightly points out. I would say exactly the same thing if the doctors were starting to deliver the drugs. There would no longer be there, in the same way, this difference between the one who prescribes and the one who delivers. A completely different way was quite possible, supported by the general practitioners. I pleaded for it and tabled amendments in committee, which I resubmit again today. According to them, the delivery of the vaccine takes place without prescription. That's what we've been doing for a year. Millions of vaccines have been delivered and administered in Belgium without prescription. So that's not a problem. In fact, the European directive allows this, provided of course that it is justified. This does not in any way prevent a refund. Indeed, our amendments explicitly provide for this. The third reason we will not support your bill is that it goes very far by not excluding vaccination of small children. For children, however, it is a matter of medically examining the benefit-risk balance for the vaccine with the child and the parents. This medical examination of the benefit-risk balance seems to me to be very clearly a matter of medical responsibility for these children and in this context. In fact, since you wanted to highlight other countries that have introduced covid-19 vaccination by pharmacists, these countries, whose care system is completely different from ours, have for many of them excluded the vaccination of children by pharmacists. In any event, they did so when it was a matter for pharmacists to provide this service without collaboration with the doctor. The fourth reason why we will not support your project is that there are still multiple questions from pharmacists. I relayed them in committee. You almost swept them with a back of your hand saying that everything was organized and managed. I note in a pharmacist survey, released yesterday, that the majority of pharmacists continue to relay problems and multiple questions, as I did in committee. They speak from a practical point of view of the management and care of both small and large malaise, as well as of the recognition and lack of remuneration provided for in this respect. It is a strange coincidence, however, that vaccination centres should be closed at the same time as vaccination by pharmacists. You told us that it had nothing to do with it. Yet, minister, I went to search for one of your expressions in the press in October 2021. I read: "As far as covid vaccination is concerned, the vaccination task force proposes to shift the emphasis during the next phase of the vaccination campaign, from large vaccination centres to the front line. Aside from the administration of the vaccine in group practices, there is already talk of the administration of the vaccine in pharmacies that meet certain infrastructural requirements." You went on to explain that this was all under analysis. The chance was therefore not one: there is indeed a relationship between the closure of the larger and smaller vaccination centres - announced, including in the dates - and the choice that you are presenting to us today. Pharmacists must now fulfil this mission. Many of them will not follow, certainly not now. The least we can say is that, for your part, you are entrusting them with an additional burden that they will have to bear at the very moment when the vaccination centres are closing their doors, without providing for any support or remuneration. The role of pharmacists is paramount in our health care system, both because of their proximity and their capacity for preventive action. This function should be recalled, underlined and strengthened. However, unlike you, Minister, I do not wish to oppose pharmacists and doctors, nor do pharmacists and nurses. Above all, I would like to promote, including in actions, and not only in words, cooperation and collaboration between the different providers of care for the benefit of patients. You know as well as I do – or you have discovered it and I would find it surprising – how sensitive this subject is. In the distribution of tasks among the different providers, the competences of each of them must be put at the service of the quality of patient care. This debate has been completely ignored. Consultation on this issue with doctors and nurses has also been left out. This is not how we can strengthen positive and constructive collaboration among primary care providers. This is a pity because a positive collaboration had been established in the vaccination centres. You unravel all this and, because of the choices you made in this text, we find ourselves in a climate of tension and opposition between pharmacists, doctors and nurses. This is not positive for the future. For all these reasons, we will not support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u87	Minister, the numbers of the epidemic are moving in the right direction and we can only welcome that. The lifting of restrictions is a reality and will strengthen in the coming weeks. Some vaccination centres are gradually closing their doors. However, every committee and every intervention on the subject has said that the importance of vaccination must be repeated high and strong, even if the situation allows us to see more freedom and days a little happier - in terms of covid-19. This is why a proximity approach will be essential to continue to promote the vaccine and boost it. In our view, the first line of care has, now more than ever, a fundamental role to play in vaccination against covid-19. Moreover, the hearings we have had in recent weeks have only confirmed this statement. In this first line, pharmacists are an important link because of their geographical distribution and ease of access, but also because of their privileged relationship of trust with patients, including groups of citizens who are difficult to reach and who sometimes do not have a general practitioner. In this case, the pharmacist may also remove certain barriers and barriers to vaccination. For many years now, pharmacists have been empowered to administer the seasonal influenza vaccine in several European countries without it appearing to be in breach of applicable European legislation or even in breach of health protection. This is particularly the case in Denmark, France and Germany, with very positive results and no major problems to be highlighted to date. This is an issue that should be able to be addressed at home in the future. Today, there is a clear investment by pharmacists, many of whom have already received the necessary training to administer covid-19 vaccines, as indicated by the Minister. Some colleagues in committee have called into question this well-known formation, which sometimes considers it insufficient. Again, the minister has had answers that have clearly reassured us in this specific framework. Furthermore, as I was able to say in committee, I hope that stronger collaborations can be established in the future between pharmacists, general practitioners and all the players in the front line. This is a strong measure for which we plead, for the benefit of patients. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as we have done in committee, we will support this bill today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we have had an interesting and constructive debate in committee. This plenary debate is an excellent synthesis. I shall therefore be quite brief. Ms. Fonck recalled why she did not support the project. I will not reply to all of his ad hoc remarks, but to a fundamental remark that we are creating a very exceptional context by allowing a pharmacist to be both the one who prescribes and the one who delivers the vaccine. I would like to make it clear that this specific measure is linked to the exceptional context of covid-19. This is an important limitation of the field, but arguments explain this exceptional approach. These arguments were presented by Mr. De Caluwé, Mr Prévot, Ms H annoyance and other speakers. The accessibility of pharmacists in particular is an important element in such a campaign, in the phase in which we want to find ourselves. I have indicated in committee that this does not prefigure a structural approach extended to other vaccines or medicines. No, it's very specific. As Ms. Hmente, Mr. Prévot, Ms. Depoorter and also Ms. Merckx have said in a sense, this must be seen as an element aimed at better cooperation within the front line and greater synergy among all front line care providers. This is an important dimension of the debate. Ms. Hmente drew attention, both in committee and in plenary, to the fact that more thought should be given to the role of nurses. As you know, nurses can already vaccinate, but under the supervision of a doctor. I am not closed to a broader reflection on the subject. However, this is not the subject of the project under consideration. I therefore agree with what Mrs Depoorter, Mrs Merckx and Mr Prévot said, namely that we should see this as a punctual initiative which has its place in strengthening and cooperation in the first line. We assume that this will improve the accessibility of health care and also the accessibility of a vaccination campaign. Mr De Caluwé also mentioned accessibility as an essential argument. Mrs Depoorter, more specifically, you are right to say that there is more to be said and done about cooperation between pharmacists and general practitioners. In fact, some of your amendments are somewhat superfluous, as I said in the Committee on Health, because some of what you have provided for in your amendment can already be done now. Another part of what you are proposing in your amendment is to be incorporated in a royal decree which will be published very soon. You have said that it is always a long wait for the royal decisions, and I will not even contradict you entirely. The royal decision I am referring to really provides an answer to the most important operational element in your amendment. The Royal Decree allows doctors to submit a group prescription and on the basis of that group prescription the vaccines are delivered to the prescribing physician. That royal decision is currently before the Council of State for its opinion and the opinion is expected by 4 March, so very soon. That is why I can say that this royal decision will be made soon. I think it's better to settle this by royal decree. The royal decree overcomes the gap you're pointing at, so I hope you'll be happy with it. That is why I propose that your amendment should not be accepted, but I would like to thank you very much for your opposition support for the draft law. Mrs Depoorter, you are right to say that funding is not yet on track. Preparatory work has already been done within the RIZIV on how funding can look like, but we really need to reach an overall agreement with the Länder on how the financial burden of this vaccination campaign is to be shared. That's kind of part of it. Mrs Merckx, I agree with you when you say that we should also see the covid pandemic as an opportunity, as something that creates momentum, to think about a better and stronger organisation of the first line. Indeed, this also means considering the balance between individual performance financing and financing of strong practices, equipment of practices and partnerships. That's absolutely right. I also said a while ago in an informal presentation for Domus Medica that this is actually a yard that is logical from the experience with covid. We need to start thinking again about the organisation and future of general medicine. This is partly a work which must develop at the level of the Länder, but also partly at the federal level. What we are doing here is very punctual around COVID-19, but it is not contrary to the kind of momentum you are looking for, it is not contrary to other initiatives in which we want to strengthen cooperation between pharmacists and general practitioners. I just pointed out the KB that's still coming. I therefore believe that it is justified for us to request the approval of this punctual initiative. That's all I'm gonna say. Several members have asked about the long-term vision of the vaccination campaign. The Task Force Vaccination, an interfederal task force led by Professor Dirk Ramaekers, will come forward with proposals for the continuation of the vaccination campaign in the future. These proposals will focus primarily on what we still have to do in 2022. I do not want people to have the illusion that either we or the task force or you could predict what will happen over the next four years. Nor can we yet know how to vaccinate for the next four years, but it is time for the year 2022, which is still ten months away, to come up with scenarios and possible approaches and to think about how to fit together again: the first line, vaccination centres, preventive health care, vaccination in institutions and so on. I expect from the Task Force Vaccination proposals for scenarios, at least for the year 2022, with further stages of vaccination. The task force vaccination is not yet ready, but I hope that we will be able to receive this soon. Then we can discuss this with the IMC Health and we can make decisions. As an additional information, I would like to say that the EEA has in the meantime authorised the booster of children and young people. This means that the booster campaign for children and young people with confidence can be launched or continued in all Länder. That's good news, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u89	Mr. Secretary, that's nice. This shows that continuing pressure and amendment by our group leads to results. It is also good that you indicate that the Royal Decree will be revised by the Council of State by 4 March. Then we can quickly work together between the general practitioners and pharmacists. This can also be a prelude to the cooperation between opposition and majority, which is sometimes not optimal, but this is a good signal. As far as I'm concerned, you can put the plume on your hat. I am very pleased that this step is actually being taken, because nothing is worse than two important professions who do not get through a door and who have to take care of the same patient. It is important that you continue to do so and that you have put speed behind it. Now may also be the time to quickly design the RB on compensation for missing medicines for patients and substitution, but now I may be asking too much. Minister, it is also important that the preparatory work within the RIZIV has been done to pay people for their work. I'd put a rush on that, but I'll finish with your beautiful message. I will certainly accept your invitation to work together around the first line and to reflect together on the resilience in the first line and hopefully we can start with that right after the recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u90	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u91	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2460/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2460/4) The bill has four articles. The draft law has 4 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u92	• 6 " Catherine Fonck" (2460/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u93	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u94	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u95	Madam President, I refer to the written report for the first part of the work. I would also like to thank my fellow Members for the confidence that I can give an oral report on the rest of the work. In the plenary session of 24 February 2022, the Chamber decided on the amendments tabled by Mrs Buyst and co. 11 and 12 to be referred to the Energy Committee, after which they were discussed. The aim is to support the population facing high energy prices in recent months. The amendments aim to grant all holders of a residential electricity contract a heating premium of EUR 100 net, which is offset by the electricity bill. Mrs Buyst explained both amendments very comprehensively, and a little too quickly for the translators. I should therefore like to refer to her detailed explanation of the amendments tabled. Mr Warmoes then took the floor. He tabled amendment No. 13 in Amendment No 13, Amendment No 13, Amendment No 13, Amendment No 13, Amendment No 13, Amendment No 13, Amendment No 13, Amendment No 13, Amendment No 13, Amendment No 13, Amendment No 13, Amendment No 13, Amendment No 13, Amendment No 13, Amendment No 13, Amendment No 13, Amendment No 13, Amendment No 13, Amendment No 13, Amendment No 13, Amendment No 13, Amendment No 13, Amendment No 13, Then Minister Van der Straeten took the floor and thanked Parliament extensively for working through the law on various provisions. This is how the measures will be implemented quickly. Furthermore, a heating premium has been chosen so that everyone can be helped, including those who do not heat with gas. Mr Wollants then took the floor. He complained about the thickness and late circulation of the amendment and asked a number of legislative questions and questions for clarification. For example, he is concerned that no opinion can be requested from the Council of State, while it is a substantial amendment. He also expressed his concern about the new definitions, the uncertainty about the dates and the problems of residential care centres. Finally, Mr Wollants regretted that he could not have analysed the amendments in substance. He will therefore abstain. Mrs Hanus is satisfied with the amendment. The discount is a first step, but there is still a need for far-reaching reforms of the energy bill. The heating check is part of the solution and must be accompanied by other steps. Mr Bombled then argued that rising energy prices have a major impact on purchasing power. In January, a package of measures was adopted by the government, including the 100 euro heating premium, but families who do not have a residential contract were excluded. He asked if there was any consultation with the communities. After all, it is important that structural measures are put in place. The president endorsed Mr Bombled's statement. Mr Warmoes made it clear that EUR 100 is far too little for him, that a permanent reduction in VAT is much better. Finally, the Minister clarified that there could indeed be no request for an opinion from the Council of State on the amendment, but that many comments from previous opinions and comments from the Council of State had been taken into account. She added that additional definitions are needed to implement the legislative text. By the way, they are only used in the text of the amendment. As regards the key, the Minister clarifies the dates used. The date of 31 December was chosen for direct pre-financing, while 31 March is the date for the photograph from the customer's point of view. As far as relapses are concerned, suppliers can choose the option that is easiest for them. As far as residential care centres are concerned, there is an address for service and the beneficiaries have a residential contract. Mr Wollants then took the floor one last time. He regretted once again that there was no opinion from the Council of State and continued to find it remarkable that certain terms are explicitly defined here, even though they are already used in the electricity law. He also had reservations about the scheme for residential care centres. Finally, the committee voted. Amendment No 11 by Mrs Buyst received 4 abstentions and 11 votes in favour, Mr Warmoes' sub-amendment received 1 vote in favour and 14 votes against, Amendment No 11 by Mr Warmoes. 12 by Mrs Buyst received 4 abstentions and 11 votes in favour. In the vote of name the N-VA and PVDA/PTB members abstained; all other members voted in favour; there were no abstentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u96	Madam President, I would like to thank Mrs Dierick for the detailed report. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft concerns a number of issues. The first section deals with a number of improvements in consumer law, specifically for the energy sector. The second part concerns the heating premium, which was added per amendment. As far as the first part is concerned, there are generally some improvements, although our group is still concerned about the transfer of knowledge about these rights to the individual consumer. I am referring, for example, to the possibility of 15 days in the framework of advances. In my view, the great question will be to what extent consumers will be aware of this. After all, we note that it is not always obvious to translate into consumers the complex arrangements that exist today in the energy sector. Just remember that it took us years to make it clear to people that they can change suppliers at no cost. Today there are still people who do not know that system, leaving them with old contracts. In this respect, I fear that it will be a difficult task to inform the people so that they can enforce those rights, but we will see how that goes. With regard to the social rate of heat, it is a good thing that this is happening. Together with a number of colleagues, I was at the root of the previous legal provisions on this subject. Although they have never fully entered into force, their basic idea has been incorporated, so we are pleased to note that this can now be put into practice effectively, so that those who call on such a heat supply can do so properly and with the necessary safety nets. The energy standard and the way in which we look at the countries around us are also included in this proposal. There are also good opportunities there. I am curious about the further development that has yet to take place in this area, especially on the way of benchmarking and so on. I have expressed, among other things, my concern in committee that, for example, a number of benchmarks are no longer being implemented in the CREG monthly on-board tables because they believe that this makes too much difference and is too difficult to compare. The question then automatically arises as to how this should be done within the framework of this benchmark proposed. That's another one, not the one in the board table. However, it is crucial to look at its application. Should the benchmark also be applied to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg? There may be differences of opinion. I don't see the added value of that. The future will then tell whether that is the way it is going to happen. Today it is foreseen that it will happen to all neighbouring countries, I suppose also to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. The other items on the table relate specifically to the heating premium of EUR 100. That was proposed at the eleventh hour as an amendment. This has a number of advantages for the government, namely that the procedure is much shorter, that it should not be reviewed by the Council of State and so on. That's obvious. We're looking at how it's worked out. We still find it bizarre that the one-off heating premium of EUR 100 has been chosen, despite the different evolution of the different energy sources, fuels and heating methods that have been applied. That's a long way apart. Until a few weeks ago, it was very clear that the difference was substantial and that only a fraction of the increases we saw were covered in the natural gas invoices. Around 3.30 p.m. today, the peak of increases due to the situation in Ukraine was reached. Today, 53% had already been added. After that, it continued to rise for a while. The increase will therefore become fundamental. Then that 100 euros is indeed a drop on a hot plate. Until a few weeks ago, that was very different for fuel oil. I do not want to anticipate what will happen in the next few days. That may be slightly different. But I still wonder if this was the best way to do it. We have also raised the problem of residential care centres. The people who stay there will not be entitled to this heating premium. It is said that it is covered by the excise duty mechanism of the energy standard, but, according to my information, its effect is much more limited than the way it is proposed here. If we were to charge EUR 100 per inhabitant, or per household, depending on how it is arranged in such a residential care centre, then I think we would get quite different amounts from the excise duty mechanism. We know that its effect is very limited. Remember that a number of corrections have been made to that excise duty exercise. There are amounts entered in the budget to do so, but its impact is very limited, especially if it is to be spread over a number of groups. But that's a choice of this government. I have to say, however, that it was mentioned at the committee meeting just now that this was the only way to introduce it in the short term. It has been mentioned that a person tax effect was not an option, because it would take years. I want to formally disprove that. We have tabled a proposal on this subject. A combination of personal taxation and corporate withholding tax certainly creates opportunities for doing so in the very short term. Also for pensioners, by the way. But that is an option that people did not want to choose. We wanted to do it through the electricity bill, so that we can now, as proposed in this amendment, link the necessary marketing to it. In this way, the Vivaldi government can put itself on the market. That's necessary, I suppose. That's why it's in there. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the very short time we had to monitor the amendment, it is 19 pages that have been submitted this morning, and despite the fact that interesting debates have taken place here, I believe that this is a very difficult way of working. In the past there has been a great deal of criticism about this, I remember. I think it's an odd way of working, but well, that's the choice that's being made here. The whole of the proposals is something we should like to see. We had already approved it. That was clear on the committee. Nevertheless, I would like to make the point that we would rather not see it happen again in this way. The audit function, which Parliament must be able to exercise, has not been able to play to the full here. At a previous meeting, I have repeatedly removed a number of problems from the legislative work of the government. Here I fear that we will all have missed a number of points. However, we will see this again afterwards when it comes to application.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u97	Madam President, over the last few months, it has become increasingly clear that this government is pursuing an energy policy with which it is addressing things in the short term while also focusing on long-term policies. In our group's view, this is the only way in which we will be able to respond better in the future to rising energy prices and the challenges we face as a result of climate change. However, I too am aware that, in the context of current developments as a country, we will not only be able to do so, but that European cooperation is needed. I am therefore pleased that the Minister has called the European colleagues to debate this. I shall now confine myself to the draft law before us. The Minister explained the draft in detail in the Energy Committee and it was immediately the subject of a very interesting debate. There are several things in it, as Mr Wollants said. A first element is that an energy standard is finally introduced after ten years. We have already adopted the first part of that energy standard in December 2021, embedded in the programme law, and the second part is covered by this bill. Our group is satisfied with this simplification of the invoice. Different federal charges are combined and the rate is kept constant. Heating and lighting in the house are basic rights, as we have said several times in committee and in plenary. The rising energy prices and everything that has been added since today put these basic rights under pressure. That is why it is important that the policy plays its role well. With this draft law, we are trying to better cope with some of the consequences of high energy prices. We often hear that people are concerned about the little transparent way in which some suppliers deal with the advance invoices. This draft law also sheds light on this issue. We get messages from customers who suddenly hear that their advance is doubled while they don't know where that calculation comes from. It is logical that this causes concern and undermines confidence in the supplier, just when one should be able to rely on that supplier as a consumer. Ideally, consumers should be able to arrange their advance invoices in such a way that they do not have to pay too much or get back too much. Good communication is important for that. After all, let us be honest, checking energy consumption and determining which supplier best meets the needs is not always obvious to everyone. Our group therefore welcomes the fact that the draft law imposes stricter rules on advance invoices. An increase will only be possible on the basis of specific figures. Unless the consumer's meter recording indicates a higher consumption or changes taxes and excise duties, an advance invoice of a fixed contract will no longer be able to be increased. In addition, consumers will have to agree to a change based on consumption. Another thing that is regulated by this draft law is the limitation of fixed remuneration for variable contracts, which also gives consumers more transparency about fixed costs. High energy prices hurt a lot of people, especially those for whom energy costs are well reflected in the monthly budget. These are often people with low and middle wages. That is why our group has always argued for targeted measures to be taken. The allocation of the social tariff which protects one million Belgian families had to be strengthened and extended for our group. It is therefore a good thing that this bill also provides for a scheme for people coming from a period in which they were entitled to that social rate, because their family income or their family composition changes. In this way the switch to the regular market is better supervised. In addition, the bill also provides the further legal foundations for the social rate heat. We have just adopted an amendment to ensure that the draft also regulates the introduction of the uniform heating premium, a single premium granted through a residential electricity contract. The premium aims at general compensation for high energy expenditure. For our group, the work is not finished. However, the legal provisions in the draft law provide for targeted social measures and greater transparency of energy bills. These are two very important objectives for the Group of the European Greens/European Free Alliance. We shall therefore vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u98	Madam Chair, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group, I would like to welcome the measures contained in this bill. This is a question of real social, but also structural, progress which is needed at a time when there are significant increases in energy bill costs, but also for the future, given the price fluctuations announced in the coming months and years. In addition to the energy standard that we had the opportunity to discuss the introduction several weeks ago, it is up to me to highlight the provisions to prevent the supplier from unilaterally increasing the down payment bill. Being regularly contacted on this subject, I know that some suppliers have imposed and still impose changes to the down payment bill on their customers, without these changes being presented as proposals to be accepted. The prohibition of artificial increases in instalments by the supplier and the guarantee that these instalments correspond as much as possible to the actual consumption of customers should be regarded as advances. The same applies to requirements that allow for greater fairness and transparency in the method of calculating the supplier's instalments when entering into a contract. Today we can only welcome the approval in the Committee on Energy of amendments aimed at reducing the electricity bill of our citizens by EUR 100 by introducing a heating premium. We are aware that this measure will not solve all the difficulties facing the vast majority of the Belgian population. However, I must recall that it is part of the package of measures decided by the government, some of which have been included in this bill. This package allows for the extension of the extended social tariff until 30 June, the reduction of VAT on electricity until 1 July and the creation of a mini-tax shift. We must add that structural measures will be launched next month. Measures aimed at redistributing to our citizens the over-profits of the State, collected through VAT and excise duties, a redistribution to which the EUR 100 cheque already contributes on the electricity bill and the simplification of the energy bill. A simplification which our group will want and which will guarantee the government the possibility to intervene quickly and in a way that is fully adapted to the difficulties encountered by Belgian households in the face of fluctuations in energy prices and increases in bills. Finally, I must point out that this is a first set of measures, that these measures are only part of the solution, that new initiatives will necessarily have to be evaluated under the appointment clause of March and in the coming months, initiatives among which we will have to find the sustainability of the extended social tariff for the year 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law is indeed organising the second part of the energy standard. It builds on the legal basis for the roll-out of the social tariff 'heat'. It also regulates the legal basis for the so-called phasing-out discount around the social tariff. It also regulates the legal basis for the processing of personal data by the CREG when it checks the claims of suppliers for the so-called winter discount of 80 euros. It also organizes a number of necessary qualitative measures in the context of high energy prices. There were also amendments by the majority to extend the extension of social rates for the extended target group until 30 June 2022. Mrs van der Straeten, I have heard that you are even thinking about the structuralization of the social tariff. That news came out in the press this afternoon. Today, by means of a majority amendment, we are adding the legal basis for the so-called EUR 100 heating premium. Although I can imagine that, in the light of current events, the premium is not a final part of the policy that has already been decided, the heating premium is the ultimate conclusion to the so-called efforts made by the current government for the 80% of the population who cannot benefit from the social tariff. The heating premium of 100 euros is the nice looking pin-up of the so-called generous policy from Vivaldi to the broad middle class. Madam Minister, on Tuesday in the committee on this subject you pissed off my always beautiful colleague Reccino Van Lommel, a fine boy who sometimes pushes the verbal accelerator with his own impetuousness at his age. You were called, and the floor is appropriate in the Assembly, Madam President, because Mr Van Lommel apparently again confronted you with the fog about how and why not temporarily reduce the VAT on gas. Madam Minister, you may not blame Reccino Van Lommel or myself for the fact that we have been looking a bit through that thick, London smog for who was the culprit, the brat, the Jack of Jacqueline the ripper, who cut the tax reduction on gas to 6% on 1 February of the energy agreement. Who was it? We were a little deceived by you, Madam Secretary. Despite the leaking of the notes, you said in committee on 18 January that you were only going for a smart VAT reduction. You also completed "smart": a VAT reduction that is consistent with the energy transition. So we did not think wrongly: Mrs van der Straeten speaks on behalf of Green and Green against reducing VAT on gas as a fossil fuel. That is not so foolish, Mr Verduyckt, that is a logical reasoning. If Green will now put the VAT reduction on gas again up to 6%, it will be either bend work, or there will be another force. In the corridors, Mr President of the Commission, I hear that it was finally Open Vld who blocked the reduction of VAT on gas to 6% on the night of 31 January on 1 February. Now Open Vld may say that the circumstances have changed dramatically and that it will now be necessary to reduce VAT temporarily. The better Formula 1 work on the circuit, but all right, it's still a mystery. Madam Minister, I hope you will continue to think carefully about the tax shift, which is an ideal image for the Greens, for the ecologists. In kindergarten terms this means: making electricity cheaper and gas more expensive. After Mr Putin's devilish strapats and the European gas price, which puts it at EUR 134 per megawatt hour today, hopefully your coalition partners will decide to postpone that aspect of the transition. It is not a question of supply, Madam Minister, which you have correctly said this afternoon, and in the long and broad sense, with a list of the necessary percentages. It's about affordability. There is a price-setting problem in Europe. Read the annual report of the National Bank. It is also about making investments in fossil fuels completely unattractive and not moving fast enough towards sufficient renewable capacity. And also about the antinuclear decisions. Not just in Belgium, by the way. If you add Ukraine, you'll be in the movie ThePerfect Storm, but without the handsome George Clooney. That was just a spontaneous thought... We do not regard that 100 euros as a beautiful crown jewel, as much as the less than 3 euros per month that the broad middle class gets deducted through your excise duty mechanism. Of course, we also want to highlight the positive aspects of this bill. Of course, I fully agree with your initiative to get together with European energy ministers as quickly as possible. I read, and you will probably respond to that later, that there could even be an extra Council of Ministers on energy tomorrow, but of course conditions are evolving very quickly. You rightly said that additional European measures are needed, going beyond the autumn 2021 toolbox. Our group has been asking for an energy standard for a long time and I am not talking about the excise part, regulated by the programme law, but about the legal anchoring of the benchmark study. It must not end there. The benchmark study should result in a report with recommendations that the government will hopefully work on. We therefore support the legal basis for an annual assessment of the competitiveness of our companies and of the purchasing power of families. Madam Minister, it is to your credit that you have opened up the energy standard, not only for companies, but also for the different types of consumers. That is a good thing. There will be another royal decision that will determine the parameters to be used for the study. After that, the federal components will have to be effectively adjusted. But I cannot imagine that, in the light of today's developments, you will be waiting for a benchmark study to take additional measures on energy prices. Perhaps you will also gamble on March because there will be budgetary control; additional measures mean that the budget will be targeted. The flexibility of excise duties will also affect the budget, taking into account the reference year 2021, where the additional costs are blocked. We are curious to see what you and colleague Van Peteghem will come up with. Again, according to mister positivo, the bill, as announced in the budget agreement and the government agreement of September-October 2021, also addresses the issue of advance invoices. I will not read out all the important principles in this matter, because I have been standing here for too long. In any event, if the supplier takes the initiative to modify the amount of the advances, that advance payment may be charged only if the household customer does not oppose it within 15 days of its notification. The supplier will now have to justify how he determines the amount of the advances at the start of the contract and why he changes the amount on his initiative. That is a good thing. The consumer may refuse the proposal to amend the advance. This proposal must also motivate the supplier. It is not sufficient to refer only to the assumed consumption of the household customer. In short, an increase - because in most cases we are talking about this in concrete terms - will only be possible on the basis of specific figures. It will no longer be possible to unilaterally adjust the advance invoices for fixed contracts. The supplier may not unduly strengthen his cash position on the consumer's hood by making him pay advances higher than is strictly necessary. Mrs Buyst rightly said that it is, of course, a question of balance and that it is best not to pay too little to avoid unpleasant surprises in the annual invoice billing. In the ideal world, consumers are barely getting anything back, and they hardly have to pay anything at all. It is also a good thing to limit the charging of fixed fees in the case of variable contracts. The fixed fee or subscription fee may not be a hidden cancellation fee. This is very important for consumers on a variable contract. I assume that the phasing-out rate regime should be seen more as a preventive measure in the light of developments. Until now, there were no clear rules on what price or product a consumer might fall back on if his or her right to social tariff was terminated. The income of people can, of course, vary over time. The proposed amendment indeed includes the obligation for suppliers to offer the cheapest equivalent product, which the customer can subscribe to or reject. The social rate of heat is also a good thing. Heat grids are also an important part of the solution for the Flemish Interest Group because of a more climate-neutral society. The Flemish Interest has never opposed renewable heat sources and residual heat from industrial processes. A social tariff is therefore also relevant in this area, think of the initiatives in social housing. Moreover, both suppliers of heat and the regions are interested parties. Of course, all the remedies surrounding the advance invoice are also logically linked to the so-called consumer agreement. Well, the Committee on Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda has been working for some time to update that consumer agreement, which falls within the remit of Mrs De Bleeker and two other ministers. The consumer agreement is one thing, but legal obligations are of course another. Mrs Dierick paid due attention to this in committee. It would, of course, be interesting to legally anchor several aspects of that consumer agreement, i.e. to make it stronger and more enforceable. I agree with Mr Wollants that, in the highly liberalised energy market, it is very difficult for consumers to see the trees through the forest. It was rightly pointed out in committee that the complexity of contracts with a variable rate of remuneration will always be more - adapted to the index on the basis of the market indices, which means that the contract and the price sheet often have to be consulted, will play a part in the large volume of complaints lodged with the Federal Ombudsman for Energy. According to the Minister, the change will simplify so that suppliers will be required to communicate more clearly with their customers. The proof of the pudding is in the eating. Madam Minister, I understand that in cooperation with the FPS Economy, you will launch a major information and awareness-raising campaign. Indeed, citizens must be able to assert their consumer rights as accurately as possible. Finally, there is your communication about the problems with door-to-door sales. I assume, Mr Verduyckt - you are a specialist in this matter - that this is also about, for example, the recruitment of visitors by contract providers of major retail businesses such as MediaMarkt. Is that some kind of door-to-door sale? I will leave it to you to say something about it later. It doesn't just bother me and me. The Federal Energy Ombudsman identifies complaints where door-to-door sales sometimes involve an expensive contract, while suppliers are legally obliged to offer the cheapest variant. It is a bit the same, Mr Verduyckt, as with the sleeping contracts: the minister is still threatening; you are already ready to legally enforce the ban. The Minister wants the sector to draw up a collective code of conduct for banning malpractice by next week. So Krasse Kris needs to be restrained for a while. Eventually there will also be a little more binder, some corns, because you have asked the CREG to set up a working group that brings together the Energy Office and the Economic Inspectorate, not only to better identify complaints but also to react more quickly. It is a good thing that you are engaging the CREG because, Mr Verduyckt, your initiatives on dormant contracts also came on the basis of studies and advice from the CREG. The aim must indeed be to analyse the patterns that emerge in the complaints so that one can act in a rapid and diligent way. We will approve this bill and today's amendment, because they are all useful measures, even though this EUR 100 is a charity in the light of the great developments. I am particularly concerned that 80% of citizens who are not eligible for the social tariff are exposed to incredible prices. I am not saying that this is your fault, Mrs van der Straeten, but it is today's reality. In a first phase, no government in Europe will be able to prevent oil and gas prices from peaking particularly. The question is what measures can be taken at European level but also at Belgian level, no matter how hard it is for the budget. After all, it must remain viable for the people. The spring and summer that are coming are no excuse to do nothing. I hope that tomorrow you will decide to reduce VAT on gas to 6%, Madam Minister. Mr Warmoes, you have again tabled an amendment to make VAT of 6% structural. Of course, we supported that amendment. We were even the first, before the PVDA, to bring that up in the beautiful Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u100	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as we can see every day, the sharp rise in energy prices on the market puts real pressure on households and the competitiveness of our businesses. The first part of this legislation concerns the energy standard, which will enable the government to better control the differential in energy prices between Belgium and its neighbours. After passing the legislation that converted federal taxes into excises last December, the bill that we are dealing with today further translates this energy standard into reality. Indeed, it introduces an annual assessment of the competitiveness of Belgian enterprises and the purchasing power of households and provides for the possibility of adjusting the federal components accordingly. The second part of this bill directly concerns our fellow citizens. Several measures are in place to make the consumer's energy bill simpler and more transparent. In other words, these measures ensure that consumers are generally better protected. It is obviously necessary to preserve the confidence of the residential customer. Measures to increase transparency are needed. From then on, this bill provides that the advance payment may be applied only to the extent that the residential customer does not object to it, within 15 days of its notification, and that, in contracts for the supply of energy characterised by a variable price, the exercise of the right to terminate the contract after a period of six months may no longer lead to the invoicing of the entire fixed flat fee. It will have to be invoiced in proportion to the number of days of supply. In addition, the supplier will have to inform the residential customer of the least expensive equivalent product after applying the social tariffs. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as pointed out at the beginning of the speech, the sharp rise in energy prices is a major concern for my political group. Measures were needed to support households in the face of this dramatic increase, which has a heavy impact on purchasing power. With the text presented today, the government confirms its support for citizens. In view of the need to provide financial support to low-income households and to combat energy insecurity, the application of the social tariff is extended until 30 June 2022. This status concerns one million Belgians. Finally, for the MR Group, it is essential to help all our citizens in the face of energy prices, including the middle class and the self-employed. Thus, in accordance with the amendments tabled, each household will receive a heating premium of EUR 100 net in the form of a direct reduction on the electricity bill. I will conclude my speech by hoping that the support provided today will not be recovered through taxation. I would remind you once again that it is also crucial for Belgium to make the right strategic energy choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u101	Madam Minister, during Question Time this afternoon, I have already said that the concern about the affordability of our energy bill has never been so great. On several occasions we have expressed our concern about this. Fortunately, this government has already taken short-term and long-term measures. Some of them are included in this bill. In addition to measures to control the energy bill, this bill also takes some measures to better protect the consumer, something which, of course, is very close to my heart. In recent weeks, unfortunately, we also received a lot of alarming reports about extremely high advance invoices and high fees. CD&V is extremely happy that the energy standard is finally coming. Everyone knows that we have been calling for this for several years. Now it is finally legally anchored and the energy standard arrives. We think it is very important that we benchmark the energy bills of our families and companies with neighbouring countries. This is important in order to control the purchasing power of families and to maintain the competitiveness of businesses. We are therefore very pleased that this draft law provides for the second and final phase of the implementation of an energy standard. We are, of course, looking forward to the further development and entry into force of this energy standard. In previous statements, we have already called for rapid and immediate measures, so that the energy bill remains under control. We focus first on the most vulnerable. We therefore fully support the extension of the extended social tariff until 30 June. When prices peak, our attention goes first and foremost to the most vulnerable, which we certainly do not want to leave in the cold or let go. This afternoon, the amendment on the one-off heating premium of EUR 100 was adopted. That too, of course, receives our support. These are two temporary and rapid measures which will temporarily soften the bitter pill of the high energy bill. In the last few months, we have, no doubt, been hearing many complaints and poignant stories about pre-invoice malpractices. People suddenly got an advance bill on the bus that was sometimes three times as high as before. It cannot be the intention for people to play for the bank, with the risk of losing the advances paid in the event of the energy supplier's bankruptcy. Thanks to this bill, consumers will now have the right to refuse an adjusted advance invoice and it must also be very clear how the advance is calculated. We can only say that this is a good measure to give our consumers a grip. In addition, we also take action against the fixed fees that suppliers charge for variable contracts. If the consumer wants to change supplier, for example after three months, the energy suppliers charge a fixed fee for one year. This draft law makes this impossible. From now on only a fee can be charged pro rata, unless one was less than six months customer. That seems to me to be a very fair arrangement. Madam Minister, the draft law contains several good measures to better protect consumers' rights. I therefore think it is very important that the consumer knows what these rights and means are. I therefore call on you, as in the committee, to launch a good information campaign so that consumers know what their rights are and where they can go if there are any abuses. As far as affordability is concerned, the first steps have been taken, but the energy bill is still too high. Like this afternoon, I would also like to call for further structural measures. I know you've already worked hard, along with Minister Van Peteghem. A lot of measures have already been calculated. They have already been on the table and there is a clear commitment to work on this. I am thinking of the smart VAT reduction or the reverse cliquet system. We hope that there will soon be a breakthrough and that we will be able to get to the vote on this. Unfortunately, the crisis in Ukraine will also take place here. That forces us to take new measures soon. You will always find an ally in us to take measures that keep the energy bill affordable for everyone. We will therefore strongly support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is not for nothing a draft law containing various provisions, because it is very diverse and regulates various issues at the same time. On the one hand, the energy standard is introduced and on the other hand, there are several provisions relating to the social tariff and additional consumer protection. This afternoon the heating premium was added to that. The PVDA has something to say about all these provisions. The energy standard has been a patronage project for more than ten years. It follows the logic of the already existing wage standard, which is perhaps better known, the famous 1996 law which blocks our wages and which we and the trade unions want to abolish. In its original form, the energy standard only served to release additional reductions on the energy bill of large electro-intensive companies. As a result, the household invoice would increase, as it would have to pay just more charges, to compensate for the discounts for the companies. The introduction of such an energy standard also organises a race to the bottom with neighbouring countries, because the country that gives the most discount to its companies is the most attractive. That was the original idea of the energy standard. Of course, this came from a liberal angle. Madam Secretary, you have changed two things to that original concept. In addition to the competitiveness of the companies, you have extended the energy standard to the purchasing power of the families. In theory it is not only about the energy bill of the companies, but also about the invoice of the families. A second change is the reform of federal taxes towards a special excise duty. As a result, the granting of discounts for certain groups of consumers, I would like to say that for a moment in the middle of those groups, it is no longer possible for the other consumers' invoice to increase to compensate for this, but it is at the expense of the budget. Madam Minister, I have asked you in committee whether you will reduce the excise duties on families when the law is introduced. The CREG figures show that an average Belgian family pays considerably more for electricity than a family in our neighbouring countries. A French family pays less than half of a Belgian family. A German or a Dutch family pays 20% less than a Belgian family. You did not answer my question at the time. So I repeat the question today. Perhaps you'd like some answers today. A new evaluation of the CREG is planned for 15 May 2022, if I am in favour. If an evaluation of the CREG again showed that our families are paying more than the families in neighbouring countries, will you or will you not reduce excise duties? After all, it was the current government's intention not to reduce excise duties, but to increase them through what you have called the smart VAT reduction. This afternoon, however, you stated in an interview with Villa Politica that you would put the proposal back on the government table. So you are now in favour of a reduction in VAT on electricity and gas, as well as a reform of the invoice, and I quote you here, so that you can send with excise duties. I conclude from this that you are still holding on to an increase in excise duties on families. Your fellow Minister Van Peteghem and yourself had to prepare a new proposal by March 2022 at the latest. However, you indicated that you would like to put that proposal back on the table as soon as possible. However, we are not far from March 2022. I would therefore like to know whether you intend to reduce the excise duties on families and how this bill relates to this. With regard to the energy standard, the present law also gives a clear lead to the government to take additional measures to protect the purchasing power of households and the competitiveness of businesses. Our opinion on this is that this draft law gives too much freedom to the government, to grant discounts on the invoice at its sole discretion and according to its own choices, without knowing Parliament. Madam Minister, I also asked you in committee what basis of comparison you would impose on the CREG for the evaluation. Under the draft law, you have the right to decide for yourself again. However, as you undoubtedly know very well, the comparative basis determines the results. What is put into a model, of course, determines what comes out. I therefore repeat the question which has not been answered in committee. Will the CREG look at the total invoice of the families and therefore, for example, take the regional levies or will you exclude them from the analysis? Colleagues, let me be clear. For us, in the long term, all taxes and excise duties must be removed from the invoice. Policy is not financed through the energy bill, but through taxes. We are therefore in favour of a reduction in excise duties. However, the energy standard must not be abused in order only to give additional discounts to large companies and at the same time to increase excise duties on families. Madam Secretary, you said in committee that nothing has yet been decided on this matter. Today you came up again with your plan of a smart VAT reduction. I would have liked to have clarified that. What are your specific plans with this? Everything depends on the method of evaluation that the CREG must follow, because everyone knows that with figures everything can be proven. The method of calculation will be decisive, but it is certainly certain that our families are currently paying much more for electricity than our neighbouring countries. The same applies to natural gas, with the exception of the Netherlands. The energy standard must therefore mean that the government reduces and does not increase excise duties on households. For the social tariff for gas and electricity you provide for a transitional arrangement. To those who lose the social rate, you can give a one-off premium when you withdraw or cancel the extension of the social rate. We do not follow you in this. We call for the extension of the social tariff to be permanent. That is why I have again tabled an amendment today to extend the social tariff not until 1 July 2022, but to make it permanent. The provision limiting the extended social tariff in time should therefore be deleted. For example, it will become permanent for the families who need it, because these are, of course, vulnerable families with an income below EUR 20,292,59. That's a lot less than everyone here deserves. Mr Verduyckt of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has also argued in committee for the extension of the social tariff. But I am surprised that you and the rest of the majority did not support my amendment on the permanent extension of the social tariff. I hope that you will do so today, today and more than ever. Thirdly, the majority just...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u103	Mr Warmoes, Mr Verduyckt wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u104	Mr Warmoes, if I understand you correctly, you say that you do not think it is a good thing and that there is no transitional measure if someone falls out of the social tariff. You assume, even if the social tariff becomes permanent, that someone who is in the social tariff will remain in it at all times. If, for example, a family whose husband or wife finds another job at some point and earns more, falls out of the social rate, then you say that they should simply be dropped on the free market. I don't understand that at all. I think that's weird. You are now talking about the social rate. I have just heard your group leader asking a question and forgetting about the social tariff, which I found special because it is a very important measure. You are right in that, but you do realize that, by remembering later, you will not ensure that the extended social tariff is introduced? If I listen carefully to you, you say you are not in favour of a transitional measure helping people who come out of the social tariff. You want the social rate forever and assume that everyone in it will remain in it at all times. In my view, this is not the intention of a protection measure intended for people who are subject to a certain limit. If they get up there, they'll come back on the free market and I'm glad they'll at least get the protection that the minister has incorporated into the law at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u105	Mr Verduyckt, let me be clear: the increase in the social rate is for people who earn less than EUR 20,300. If they are people who are unemployed and find work, they will no longer benefit from the social rate. However, we are not under any illusions. The transitional arrangements are being introduced because they want to put an end to the social tariff for poor people, if I may put it that way. For those who find happy jobs and then are no longer entitled to the social tariff, the VAT reduction on electricity and gas should be applied. It's as simple as that. Those are the people who earn a little more, and that is why the VAT reduction on electricity and gas, also permanently, serves. So I am right: the social rate is there for the people who really need it and the VAT reduction is there for the others. However, the government wants to end the extended social tariff on 1 July. You may want to extend it, but we still need to see it. The premium is only introduced to soften that bitter pill. That is actually the intention of what is in the draft and of course we do not agree with it, because of course we do not want to stop it for the people who are entitled to it. I come to my third point. This is the reason why the committee was convened this afternoon, in particular in order to have an amendment by the majority approved which constitutes the legal basis for a one-off heating premium of EUR 100. I repeat what I said earlier in committee. We are not satisfied with this one-off premium, because it has been an excuse not to reduce VAT on natural gas. The Prime Minister and you, Madam Minister, both said in plenary for weeks that the government's measures on energy prices had to be structural. Let a one-off premium be the opposite of structural policy. The energy bill has increased by more than 2,800 euros and the government dares come out with a heating premium of 100 euros. That's just a handout. The government's temporary spring VAT reduction on electricity would only raise 65 euros for households, while a general VAT reduction on electricity and gas would yield more than 685 euros. So that's ten times more than the VAT reduction on his Vivaldis. The PVDA-PTB therefore submitted a sub-amendment in committee earlier to replace the heating premium with a general VAT reduction that will benefit everyone, also for those who do not heat up with gas. So that was voted away by the full majority plus the N-VA. I come to my final point, the additional measures for consumer protection. This government had announced that consumers would be better protected by law. The Minister even spoke of restricting door-to-door sales and prohibiting the unilateral raising of advance invoices. Just this week, you gave the energy suppliers another last chance for door-to-door sales. So you are persistently holding on to your confidence in the market and private business. In committee, I have already charged you with the fact that the legal protections you are introducing are simply too easy. For example, the supplier can still raise the advance one-sidedly. The consumer only has 15 days to object. My party, of course, thinks that the fifteen-day deadline is far too short. It seems that people will all react in good time, but only think of the people who are on holiday. For us, the net has to be turned around. An advance may not be changed unless the customer explicitly and in writing consents to it. In this way, the responsibility to convince the customer is with the supplier, not with the consumer, who then has to be sufficient at the fingertips and react quickly enough to prevent a change. The PVDA-PTB will therefore abstain from this bill, just as we did in committee. There are far too many uncertainties for us about this energy standard. So far, we have not received adequate answers to our questions. This bill also gives the government too much freedom to grant energy reductions to large companies at its discretion. Nor are we satisfied with the one-off heating premium of EUR 100. We think that's a handout. Finally, this government must stop charging the 21% luxury rate on energy while handing out gifts to ENGIE Electrabel and other energy multinationals.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of the committee, I would also like to say that there have already been extensive and interesting discussions in committee, which I will not repeat in detail here. I would like to add three more points. First of all, an account that is presented is ultimately paid by someone. We must remain aware of the fact that bills that are passed on to public authorities end up being passed on to citizens. Secondly, I would like to thank the Minister for the good work that has been done. This statement also refers to this draft law and the following. Thirdly, there is a lot of work to be done and difficult choices have to be made. I would like to stress that these choices must be made without ideological dogmas. We should not use too many difficult words, for example back-ups of back-ups and plan A and plan B. However, we must make the best choice, taking into account the fact that we need to achieve climate-neutral technology. We must also be aware that energy imports are always linked to geopolitical risks. Maximum spread, with a diversified energy mix, is therefore the right choice. That must be the guiding principle for the government and Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u107	What is before us today is a package of good measures. But I'd like to zoom out first. When the government drew up its government agreement, there were already some incentives to work on the energy bill. That was necessary because our energy bill, especially our electricity bill, is one of the highest in Europe and it is countering the energy transition. So there were some good stitches in there. I believe that some of these intentions might have come to fruition, but today we are living in another world. The current energy prices are in no way comparable to the prices of the pre-corona crisis. I believe that energy prices today represent an important and very important part of the family budget for almost every family in this country. With every month in which permanent contracts expire, more and more families come to realize that. Some people are still protected by a well-established contract that they concluded last year, but more families come to an unpleasant conclusion every month. In the meantime, we also know that this is not a temporary crisis. In December, the CREG was already very clear in our committee, when there was no conflict of war on our continent. The CREG said at that time that these high prices will be there for a long time. We now have a new context. This context requires new policies to work with our energy bill, in the short and long term. I'll talk about that long term first. I have followed the debate here today and we know what is needed in the long term. In the long term, we absolutely must choose the path of a production park that focuses on renewable energy, so that we are as dependent as possible. I have heard almost all the parties today say that dependence on, among other things, the Russians is important. I almost talked about our Russian friends here, but I'm not gonna do that today. I would like to hear the N-VA say that, but I note that today it has a Flemish minister who does not grant very many permits for windmills. That's a problem, I think. I have also heard Flemish interest say that, whereas that party has always done a bit laconically when it comes to climate policy. Meanwhile, Flemish interest probably also realizes that renewable energy is very important. The government must invest in it or let it be done by investors or by families. Let it be very clear, the families that are investing in solar panels today see that investment recouped in the fairly short term. For me as a socialist, the knot lies mainly with those families who do not have the budget to do so. I believe that we should particularly concern ourselves with these people, with collective projects, renovation projects and investment projects. I see cities and municipalities starting with this today, and I am really pleased with that, because it is very important that we help those people to arm themselves at the high prices. It is and remains a boltade that several of you have already pronounced: the cheapest energy is the energy that one does not consume. We absolutely need to help people with that. I come to what has been said today and has already been explained in detail by many of my colleagues. The energy standard is indeed an important political dossier which the Minister is now working on. This energy standard will undoubtedly help reform the energy bill, which needs to be degreased. The social tariff is also a very important protection. The Minister knows that this is very close to my heart. I am very pleased that this is in place today and I hope that it will be implemented quickly through the necessary decisions. After all, heat is a new fact. The social tariff in general is today an important protection, it saves about half as compared to the commercial electricity price and one fifth as compared to the commercial gas price. Those are huge benefits that people have today and that protect them. It has been said many times, this concerns almost a fifth of all Belgians. I have already said in the past that the disadvantage of the social tariff is that it is not a structural measure, in the sense that it does not buy a more economical household appliance or insulation material. Of course, that's a problem. It's a good protection, but we need other things to get out in the longer term. Mr Warmoes, I have really tried to understand what you said, the reason why you are opposed to the transitional measure for people leaving the social tariff, but I still do not understand it. Whether the extended social tariff will stop or not, it is always a good thing if we help people who are no longer covered by the social tariff protection to get to a good supplier with the cheapest equivalent product. A family that enters the free market and makes a bad decision there is the benefit that has long been lost through the social tariff in a short time. So I do not understand why you are opposed to this transitional measure, regardless of whether the extended social tariff will stop or not. By the way, I've heard more strange twists from you. This is how you pay for the one-time heating premium. Last week, however, you mentioned the Netherlands as the guide country, because in the Netherlands each gets 400 euros seen. However, you did not add that the Netherlands does not grant a social tariff. In the same sense, you are talking about controlling excise duties, which you are also opposed to. Soon, however, excise duties will be sent on the basis of ecology and large consumption. For large consumers, the example of the pool owners is often cited. If excise duty is differentiated in this way, I have nothing against it. I do not understand why PVDA is today advocating general, flat measures. I welcome the fact that we are doing something for every family in this country, but I am glad that the focus is on the families who need it most today and who do not have the budget to arm themselves at high energy prices today. I think this focus is extremely important, and I do not understand why you are advocating general measures here, but rather ignoring the differentiation that may become very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u108	Mr Verduyckt, I have already explained the first element. We are in favour of the extension of the social tariff becoming permanent for those who need it. For the sake of clarity, we have approved the extension of the social tariff, so we are in favour. There can be no doubt about that. You are surprised that we are in favour of a general measure. Of course, the 18% of the population enjoying the social tariff are those who need it most. However, all the other people, excluding the super rich, also need support, not necessarily a social tariff, but support. The invoice for an average family increased by 2,800 euros. To this end, there is a general and, moreover, efficient measure. By the way, you are also officially in favour of a VAT reduction on electricity and gas, just because it is necessary, and because electricity and gas are not luxury goods, but basic products, it is as simple as that. That is why it is an efficient measure, and I do not understand your surprise at the fact that we are in favour of a general measure. I believe that 80% to 90% of the population needs support for the payment of the energy bill, not just that 18%.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u109	For the record, I am also in favour of general measures. You cited the Netherlands as a good example. I choose a country where general measures are combined with additional protection for those who need them. That's the difference between us. Also very important are the qualitative measures contained in this bill, which give consumers even more opportunities to protect themselves from a number of things that are happening in that market. Madam Minister, we have already taken several steps in this area. You have already taken many initiatives. Parliament has already been able to do a number of things. Its importance is under-explored. One can give a discount, one can help people with a social rate, but someone with a wrong rate, because he is ill informed or has made a wrong choice, can sometimes have up to many hundreds of euros on his leg, even today, at a time when all contracts are quite high. Mr Ravyts spoke about it earlier. I refer to the sleeping energy contracts. At that time it was about a difference of 700 euros per family. The reason was simply that the family was in a wrong contract and out of ignorance, because it didn't find its way on the market, stuck in that sleeping contract. EUR 700 is a huge sum for many families in the country. Such qualitative measures can help in this respect. Mr Ravyts, that's why I'm against this door-to-door sale. Today energy is an important part of every family's budget. We need to be able to think about that. One has to be able to compare well. That should not be handled by a smooth seller at the door. You gave the example of Media Market, which is also included. We have to work like the dormant energy contracts. Good cooperation between the government and Parliament will produce results, I am convinced of that. It is important that we denounce these practices. This draft law contains a number of other matters, including those relating to fixed remuneration, which is becoming more limited. That's good. So there are a lot of good measures in this. The government has already taken twice a package of measures in response to rising energy prices. With the measures we could really move on. The Flemish government has been followed every time. But the effect on the invoice is still limited there today. The energy market is literally on fire. People are rightly concerned about high prices. The agreement also included a structural review of the energy bill. Ministers Van Peteghem and Van der Straeten are working on this. Our position remains very clear. We need to go to a permanent VAT reduction, 6% on gas and electricity, possibly with an adjustment to sustainability and consumption via excise duties; I have nothing against that. But such an operation would immediately have a major impact, unlike some other symbol files.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u110	I wanted to thank everyone for the many interventions. They show that high energy prices, especially on a day like today, are the first concerns of each of us, certainly of the government, and even more of myself. It also shows that it is important to keep working. When we decided on the first energy package in October, the circumstances were different than they are today. Then the economy reappeared post corona. The geopolitical tensions were latent: the conflict between Russia and Ukraine is not new and dates back to 2014. We were able to switch quickly then, also because we had already taken the decision to extend the target group of the social tariff, and we were able to build on that. In this way, we were able to switch and intervene very quickly. Not so long ago, a second package of measures came into being at a time when geopolitical tensions had grown very much and it appeared that we would not see the fall in prices that we had in mind in October and which the CREG, which has been very helpful to us in the measures, had always assessed on the basis of forecasts. Here again it has been shown that we have been able to switch because we had already taken measures, such as the social tariff we renewed, but we have also been able to work with the excise duty that we had introduced thanks to the energy standard. This shows that the government can do what it wants if it is actively and proactively involved in energy policy. With Russia's invasion of Ukraine today, there is absolutely a third period. Today's price increases, both for gas and oil, and concerns about security of supply and the impact on prices...[the Minister does not finish the sentence] We can manage security of supply well, because we only have a limited share of gas from Russia. As far as oil is concerned, we have our strategic stocks. As far as uranium is concerned, we know that we do not have any problems until 2025, but of course we do not escape the impact of high prices. That is why Minister Van Pethegem and I continue to work on a thorough reform of the invoice and on the proposals we made earlier this year. Those proposals consisted of a combination of a VAT reduction on electricity and gas with a reform of excise duties. The technical teams are working on that. It must, of course, be clear that the government will continue to act and that it will remain attentive and vigilant to the situation today. That is also why I asked my French colleague, Barbara Pompili, to ask you, Mr Ravyts, that the 27 EU energy ministers meet as soon as possible. After all, we have two issues to discuss. Firstly, the supply and rules on strategic stocks and their improvement, for example, with a coordinated approach that will ensure that LNG ships are definitely moving towards Europe. Our country can also play a strategic role with the port of Zeebrugge. In addition, there are measures relating to prices. The European Commission had already drawn up a toolbox in which directives were given to the Member States on how to act. There's a second toolbox coming up now. It is important that the European Commission also listens to the initiatives taken in the Member States, but also to how the Member States wish to deal with them. This will enable effective and coordinated action to be taken. Many different elements have been addressed in the statements. This bill indeed integrates a lot of things. There was also talk about the social tariff. The KBs for their further implementation will be discussed in the Council of Ministers in a first reading on Friday. It's important to keep working. I also share concerns about the translation of consumer rights into legislation. I have already said in committee this week that we are working with different measures. My administration is launching a campaign to inform about rights, with a clear reference to where to file complaints. I also asked the CREG to set up a task force with the Energy Office and the Economic Inspectorate. One is at the source of the complaints and the other is at the sanctioning of the complaints. I have asked the CREG to bring these partners together so that I and Parliament are informed in good time of what practices require legislative action. We are taking action today on the advance invoices. That was an arrangement already in place in the consumer agreement. Not all suppliers signed it. For example, we may be able to bring out other practices from the large stream of complaints where rapid action is needed. In that sense, we remain vigilant. I am sure that we will be sitting together on this at regular intervals. After all, it is absolutely my intention to legislate where it is necessary. I spoke on Tuesday in committee about the door-to-door sales. Mr Ravyts, those are indeed sales outside the company and outside the sales area. Selling in a Mediamarkt shop is also included. That's a long-known thing. Mr Verduyckt questioned me a long time ago, and in the Netherlands some suppliers have said that they will not do so anymore. In Belgium we still know that. Some people are fine, but we won't deny the sun's light, there are really abuses in that door-to-door sale. My appreciation is that this also often has to do with the intermediaries who are not or are not sufficiently understood by our regulations and by the consumer agreement, which creates loopholes. The suppliers told me to come by the end of the month with a charter. We are today February 24th. If that is necessary, we will legislate through the Omnibus Directive to curb that practice. We continue to monitor the situation day by day and sometimes also hour by hour, and we have already built up a whole arsenal of instruments to act quickly if necessary. In the meantime, you know that, if there is a need, we will not fail to act.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u111	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u112	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2465/9) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2465/9) The bill has 37 articles. The draft law has 37 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-24-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip165x.u113	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting Thursday, February 24, 2022 at 8.10 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 24 February 2022 at 20.10 a.m.
