ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u1	I have some technical answers. First of all, in connection with the connectivity of the Westhoek, I would like to refer to BIPT's atlas cards on which it can be seen that 99 % or 97,485 households of the 98,387 households in the districts of Diksmuide, Ypres and Veurne have access to Telenet's fixed network that can deliver speeds up to 1 gigabit per second, and 95 % of households also have access to an Internet connection of Proximus, where the technology can deliver at least 100 megabit per second. For the mobile internet we do see differences between the operators on the maps in the Westhoek. We therefore recommend that you always take a good look at them, before making a choice for one operator or another. The 5G auction will indeed have a positive impact on the quality of mobile networks in rural areas, as the 5G licences have a higher coverage obligation than the 4G. The renewed atlas will work like the map that can be consulted on the website of Arcep, the French telecom regulator, which can be accessed by address. The data about the connection will be requested from the Belgian operators for all addresses. There is also an open source database, the Belgian Streets and Addresses database, which can be consulted for this purpose. With regard to your question on subsidies for the white zones, I can tell you that the preparation of the project has since begun. It starts mapping the white areas where there is no access to a minimum speed of 100 megabits per second on the fixed network. Secondly, a survey of the sector is also planned on their short-term investment plans in fixed broadband and we will test them against the list of white zones in order to shorten them. The BIPT expects to be able to complete it in the first quarter of this year. Thirdly, the FPS Economy will draw up a specifications and the various project proposals of the operators will be selected and, if necessary, notified to the European Commission under the State aid rules. We would like to conclude that in the third quarter of this year. In the fourth quarter the award will come, so we can roll out early 2023. In conclusion, the federal government is clearly continuing to move towards a modern society where everyone has access to fast internet so that no one is left behind.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u2	Thank you for your answer. The problem was indeed that according to the atlas cards there is quite good coverage in the Westhoek, but this is contradicted by the results from the local survey. If I understand correctly, this will now be framed in more detail and a difference can be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u3	Mrs Depraetere, this is indeed about an insurance policy against cybercrime, as offered by Proximus, for example. First of all, I would like to mention that Proximus offers its subscribers, free of charge, appropriate, secure services, taking into account technical progress, which should prevent unwanted electronic communications from reaching the end users. This obligation is applicable only to electronic communications as such, for this is an obligation....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... All other items can be offered for an additional fee, for example firewalls. That's an important nuance. That insurance offered by Proximus does not affect Proximus' obligations under Article 105.1§4, but the reality is that even the best technical assistance and security never provides 100 % protection against certain forms of cybercrime. That is why Proximus offers extra insurance for end-users who are still victims of cybercrime. This does not replace the legal requirements to which Proximus is subject. A further extension does not appear to us to be so obvious at first sight, as third parties who are not operators can also offer such services. In that case, there is no longer a level playing field. So should we impose on operators to include such insurance in the basic package, we de facto require all operators to offer this type of insurance to their customers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u4	Madam Minister, I understand that it is not appropriate to do so for various reasons, but perhaps there is a possibility of informing consumers properly. The concern is that many people who are already struggling to see the forest through the trees on telecom subscriptions will quickly register for this extra package, where this may not always be necessary. I find it difficult to estimate it, but there is already a basic package in which there are a number of things. In my view, it would be useful to inform consumers about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u5	Debates of the European Parliament 55023907C) by Mrs Depraetere and others: 55024267C by Mrs Dierick are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u6	Mrs Depraetere, as you know, I asked for a public consultation on the BIPT website which ran until 18 January. A total of 16, sometimes very comprehensive, have received responses from different stakeholders, such as associations representing the interests of consumers, operators and operators' associations, from different entities active in the fight against poverty and the defence of interests of persons with disabilities and also from some individuals. We are still analysing those responses at the moment as the consultation was only completed last week. We're already seeing some big trends coming out that we did expect. Poverty organisations mainly respond positively to plans to reform social tariffs. Just as the discount on the energy bill is automatically passed on to the suppliers, they also advocate that the telecom operators regulate this directly, so that people no longer have to knock on their door and lose themselves in the administrative mill. The right to that social tariff should therefore be automated. The responses of the poverty organisations clearly indicate the demand to expand the group eligible for social reduction. Now this discount applies only to people with severe disabilities, to those with a small pension and to the separate target group of people who are difficult to speak. We believe that this group should be extended effectively to low-wage people for whom the Internet bill weighs heavily. Finally, it is of course intended that there will be effective indexation. If life becomes more expensive, as it is at present, it does not make sense if the discount did not follow the lifespan. You know that the dossier has seen little or no progress for years. So it will be really important to regulate the reform legally in this legislature. Let me give you an example. The social tariff law dates back to 1982, exactly 40 years ago. It still states that there is a category entitled to the social tariff, namely the military war blinds. There aren't any of these anymore, which isn't illogical. So it is high time to change the law. You also asked a question about mobile services. That is a very important element on which we have already thought a great deal. That is why there are a number of European rules. Under the European Electronic Communications Code, a social tariff for mobile services can be introduced, but only if market conditions justify it. We have therefore asked the BIPT, in accordance with the government agreement, to study the market at national level. The BIPT tells us that there are affordable price offers available on the mobile market. There are sufficient inexpensive packages for the mobile segment and a social tariff could therefore not be justified under European rules, as opposed to fixed or mixed packages. The BIPT study thus shows that it is difficult to oblige operators to offer a mobile social rate on the same conditions as, for example, a fixed social rate. In the draft law before us, for a limited group of people, there are other European examples of this, for example for people who experience communication problems due to sensory limitations. This is justified by the rules of the European Union. As far as the other requirements or possibilities are concerned, proposed by the stakeholders, we are still working on the analysis. We clearly note that targeted communication is needed for people in poverty, to refer again to that group. We will have to take active action against people who do not have an Internet contract, but who are entitled to a discount. What are the different steps in the legal framework that still need to be taken? After analysing the responses, we will discuss the draft law politically and possibly revise it. Then it goes to the GBA, the Council of Ministers, the Council of State and Parliament. That will therefore take a number of months. That has to do with the procedure. In parallel, we are also working on the implementation measures of the general framework through RBs, because the RB will be adopted soon after the publication of the law. The work to carry out the design can only then begin. In any case, we hope that the reform will be operational by 2024. This will take some time, but in the course of 2023 we should be able to land with it, if the steps follow each other positively.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u7	Madam Secretary, thank you for your efforts on this dossier. It is an important law that has not been amended or updated for a long time. However, with everything that has been added on a mobile level over the years, this is absolutely necessary. I understand the analysis that the mobile fare is much lower. However, it is those who are most vulnerable who are most in need of information about the different contracts. It is my concern that they are often misled to enter into a slightly more expensive contract. I believe that it will be a challenge to ensure that they get to that cheap contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u8	Mr President, Mrs Depraetere, findings on the crossing of fair use policy on unlimited internet have already been made in preparation for the draft guidelines consulted. The BIPT has not received any new data from the operators concerning usage data in the context of this consultation. The reactions of the operators were mainly about the proposed guidelines themselves. On the basis of the initial data retrieval, the lowest threshold of the fair use policy 500 gigabyte was found for fixed internet, after which the speed was reduced. For mobile internet, that was 20 gigabytes. Then I come to your question about the average quantities applied. The BIPT could not provide average values of current fair use policies on mobile internet services, as the latest available data date from the end of 2020. Since then, a number of unlimited offers have disappeared or changed. Let me give you an example: Orange Belgium is no longer offering unlimited offers. With this operator, the highest mobile data volume is now specifically set at 60 gigabytes. Previously, the unlimited product used a fair use policy of 30 gigabytes. Another example is Mobile Vikings. In the meantime, the data volume of his unlimited offer has increased from 20 to 50 gigabytes. The last analysis dates from before these changes and therefore BIPT cannot provide reliable figures. This means that the market has already slightly anticipated the guidelines. At the time of initial data retrieval, the average threshold of fair use policy was about 25 gigabytes. For fixed internet services, this threshold cannot be given because there are providers with a fair use policy of 500 gigabytes, 3 terabytes and a truly unlimited data volume. If one takes the average of that, with something that is unlimited, so infinite, it actually becomes infinite. There can be no real figures on that. For fixed internet, certain operators have revised their fair use policies since the initial data retrieval. The BIPT is considering publishing the guidelines by the end of February 2022. It considers, in the consultation document, a deadline of 6 months after publication sufficient to allow Internet access service providers to implement the guidelines. Furthermore, I cannot yet comment on the adjustments after consultation as the BIPT Council has not yet approved the dossier. That is a formal step that we must wait for. Finally, as the name indicates, BIPT makes a number of recommendations which are not binding, but which can be used by a court or other public authorities as a guide in the assessment of the concept of 'unlimited'. Thus, although these guidelines are not binding in themselves, they clarify how the BIPT could deal with this type of case at a later stage, even though a sanctioning action is not excluded. On the basis of Article 5 of the Open Internet Regulation and the national powers relating to the law on electronic communications, it is indeed the BIPT that supervises these practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u9	Madam Minister, as you say, we will therefore have to wait for the publication of the BIPT, but it is good to hear that the market is already adapting and that these things are evolving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u10	The telecoms law of 2005 provides that one or more service providers may be chosen for the different components of the universal service, a provision which is somewhat outdated, as it mainly refers to the telephone booths to be provided. Furthermore, all operators had to offer social rates, of course from a certain turnover. Belgacom/Proximus was selected for universal services until 2013. From then on, the BIPT was asked to monitor whether or not it would be necessary. The BIPT publishes an annual report on this subject and has never asked to appoint a provider to provide such universal services since 2013. In its report, it also indicated that this was not necessary in itself, given the absence of demand for affordable quality services. However, when we talk about affordable quality services, we can only conclude from Proximus' announcement earlier this week that the company is actually forcing its customers to use the new fibre technology. The replacement of another cable is positive for quality and speed, but this is accompanied by a more expensive subscription. Customers have to change from the cheapest internet subscription to the old cable for 27.5 euros per month, to a more expensive subscription that costs 42.95 euros per month. That's a big difference, isn't it? Prices increase by 56 % while the maximum download limit for the subscription increases from 100 to 150 gigabytes. Test Purchase responded yesterday: it said that there should be at least transparency and that it would be logical that these limits should disappear when prices rise so sharply. Are you in consultation with the sector and are they agreed on this? Is BIPT still convinced, together with you as Minister in the light of Proximus' recent announcement, that there is no need to designate a universal fixed connection service provider or does the dossier change your opinion on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u11	Mrs Depraetere, we have had to wait for the reactions of the BIPT and Proximus to give a good answer. I hope that I will succeed. Proximus is of course free, provided that the legal provisions on notice are complied with, to stop the copper services and only use glass fibre. Proximus is also free to determine its retail prices. So there are no concrete agreements on this. Of course, Proximus is regulated by BIPT in the field of wholesale and it is mandatory to give other operators access to its glass fibre network. Other operators can therefore use Proximus' glass fibre network and offer their services in this respect. Customers can change operators to choose a cheaper product that can be offered by a cable operator. In principle, measures must improve competition on the market. As far as data limits are concerned, the effective take-up of unlimited offers, i.e. fixed internet and fixed internet bundles, has increased from 62 to 80 % of the total number of connections over 5 years. Operators are free to differentiate their products in terms of data volume. However, BIPT expects that as fiber-based products continue to be introduced, the internet with unlimited data volumes will become the norm. As far as cost is concerned, Proximus replied that the price for the Internet subscription Proximus Internet Start, the cheapest subscription, i.e. 27,5 euros per month, will not change from existing customers when switching to fiber optics. Although these customers retain the maximum download speed they currently have, namely 50 megabits per second. The argument for the higher price is that the quality of the connection is much better. Glass fibre allows for higher speeds. However, when switching to fiber optics, customers can maintain the same rate and quality connection with the internet speed they currently have. That could be an answer. Then I come to your second question. The speed of Internet access under the geographical element of universal service is set at 1 megabit per second. The market offers this speed on a commercial basis at 99.7 % of Belgian territory. That is why no universal service provider has been designated. I do not need to repeat that we are making efforts for the last 0.3 %. The white zones are a different story. Because the percentage is so high, it is assumed that the appointment of a universal service provider is not really necessary. The BIPT is currently conducting a study to review the rate upwards. At the end of this study, it will be possible to set a new speed which may have to be offered in the context of universal service. The default can therefore be changed. Then we will find ourselves in a new situation, where we will have to consider whether to designate one or more universal service providers. With the current speed of 1 megabit per second and a occupancy of 99.7 %, the BIPT considers that this is not necessary now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u12	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. You said that the quality is much better. That is, of course, the case. In addition, you argue, a solution has been devised for customers who do not use the higher speed. That is good, but I do not agree that a better quality by definition means that the price increases. We are also talking about a substantial increase in prices. With a regular phone subscription, 20 years ago one could also text and call. This price has remained more or less the same for a basic subscription, but there is much more to be done there today. You say there's another study in progress. It is important not only to look at quality and technological evolution, which is of course very positive, but also to take account of affordability. The difference is now quite large, even if solutions are sought. For example, Scarlet will not be able to offer a subscription for a certain period because there is a transitional period. The price also seems to me to be an important aspect for the BIPT to look at.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u13	So we have dealt with all the questions that we could deal with today. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Depraetere, thank you both for the massive turnout.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u14	Colleagues, I propose that we begin our question-and-answer session with Minister Clarinval.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u15	Minister, I'm taking you back to the Christmas season and the fir trees that were then sold and distributed. The Christmas tree is beautiful, but we were able to see, in particular through a report on the program Investigation which brought them to light, the proliferation of abuses and questionable practices. This is how several fir trees with the label "true Walloon fir" actually come from abroad. Therefore, it is a deceit towards the consumer, who thinks to support his local economy through this name. In principle, the Code of Economic Law prohibits and renders false advertising impossible. The problem observed in the trade in fir trees is therefore the result of a total lack of control. Minister, were you aware of such practices? In the wake of this report, what steps are you taking to ensure the truthfulness of the words on the labels? Is actual traceability of fir trees under study in Belgium? Is coordination with our European neighbours under discussion?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u16	Mr President, Minister, my question is complementary, as you have seen. Many of us were questioned by the Christmas tree report of the Investigation program. This is an important issue given its weight for our economy. Belgium is the second largest exporting producer in Europe with an annual figure of EUR 35 million per year and 85% of the trees produced in Belgium that are exported. There are many issues at stake in these crops, and I am going to stop at that of plant protection products. It is known that no less than 0.98 kg/ha of pesticides are used each year for fir cultivation. These include the Glyphosate herbicide, which is obviously well known, the cypermethrin insecticide, which is toxic to human and environmental health, the mancozeb fungicide, which is carcinogenic and endocrine disrupting, and the pomoxon, which is a growth hormone. The use of pomoxon is nevertheless prohibited at European level, but it has been granted derogations in Belgium since 2019 at the request of the Union Ardennaise des Pépinieristes (UAP). As is well known, the European Regulation on Pesticide Authorisations provides that derogations may be granted only in special circumstances and in the event of danger which cannot be controlled by other reasonable means. In its rationale, the Health FPS states that pomoxon was authorized after positive assessments of toxicology, environmental behaviour analysis and other aspects, but also taking into account the economic dimension of the sector. However, this growth hormone is used for a single aesthetic purpose and would then be allowed on the sole argument of profitability. Mr Minister, in your opinion, does the pomoxon derogation respect the principle of danger laid down in Article 53 of the European Regulation? Could you explain the results of the last toxicological check and the impact of pomoxon on the environment? When did it date? Could we have access to it? Could you explain the results of the last toxicological check and the impact of mancozeb on the environment? When did it date? Could we have access to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u17	Mrs de Laveleye, Mr Vajda, I would first like to say that what is stated in the question about the active substance present in the extra pomoxon product is not correct. This substance is not banned at European level as mentioned, but it is well approved until 31 December 2023. The need for temporary authorisation for this product is explained by the fact that it was not yet authorised on the Belgian market at the time. Furthermore, the concept of danger as used in Article 53 of Regulation 1 107/2009 should also be explained. This concept is not only linked to the concept of survival of the plants concerned, but must be seen as any circumstance hindering the development of plant production. Realizing unsellable products would mean that all the effort - raw materials, land use, energy devoted to this crop - would have been provided in vain. The last evaluation of extra pomoxon dates back to the March 30, 2021 Committee for the Approval of Pesticides for Agricultural Use, where the temporary authorization received a positive opinion. Toxicology, environmental behaviour and ecotoxicology assessments were conducted in March 2021. They have led to positive conclusions. To date, for mancozeb, no emergency applications have been submitted for Christmas fir - as the products of this active substance are allowed in ornamental trees and shrubs, including Christmas fir. In addition, the last assessment for other crops under an emergency authorisation procedure dates back to the Committee for the Approval of Pesticides for Agricultural Use of 27 April 2021. Finally, I would like to point out that the government agreement does mention an ambitious pesticide reduction plan. The granting of a new authorisation does not necessarily imply an increase in the quantities used of plant protection products. It could precisely avoid the increased use of other non-specific products. In this connection, I should like to inform you that Belgium is a good pupil in the latest report of the European Institute of Statistics Eurostat. Dated in December 2021, it presents the key figures for the European food chain. In the chapter dedicated to pesticides, Eurostat reports that Belgium has reduced the potential dangers associated with pesticide use by 35%. This percentage was calculated in 2019 against the average recorded between 2011 and 2013. Belgium is therefore doing better than the European average of the 27 Member States, which have a 21% reduction in the risks to which the population is exposed. With regard to Mr Vajda's question, the Economic Inspectorate has so far not received any complaints about these practices. Where appropriate, investigations could be initiated during the relevant periods, in order to determine whether there are any deceptions on the part of the consumer, on the basis of the indications of origin found, in particular, on the passports of Christmas trees. I would point out, however, that the provisions of the Code of Economic Law on consumer protection, in the context of misleading market practices, fall within the competence of my colleague, Secretary of State De Bleeker, in charge of the Consumer Protection Portfolio. With regard to the traceability of Christmas trees, I am not aware of the existence of specific studies on this subject at federal or European level. The Federal Agency for Food Chain Safety (AFSCA) has also confirmed to me that it carries out regular checks on the traceability of plants and trees only if they have roots and/or are intended for replanting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u18	Mr President, Minister, first of all, a little clarification. As I told you, I introduced an oral question similar to that of my colleague, Mrs de Laveleye. In order not to be too long, I thank you for your willingness to turn it into a written question. So I'll wait for your services to respond in writing. Thank you. Minister, with respect to the question I have put to you at the moment, I understand that you have not received a complaint, that investigations could, if necessary, be organized. I'm holding a certain reserve in your head. I'm sorry. The show we saw really denounced the existence of more than questionable practices. I also hear that there is no ongoing study to verify the true traceability of Christmas trees. With regard to a trade that is more than flourishing, which sometimes takes place at the expense of our traditional and food-producing cultures, I believe that more surveillance should be exercised.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u19	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. I will highlight two or three small elements. I had obviously seen your tweet earlier explaining the good news about the use of pesticides in Belgium. I think that we should always welcome our country's efforts and good results in this area. I have not yet analysed the figures closely, but it should not be forgotten that we are leaving from afar, that the OECD report shows that the use of pesticides in Belgium is very high on a European scale and has extremely long-lasting impacts on the quality of our waters and soils. So let us rejoice, but continue the work assiduously. In relation to the derogations, I mean that the product is authorised until 2023 and that, in this context, it was temporary authorisations at Belgian level. I would like to recall that until 2019, obviously, tree producers were passing away from this growth hormone; this means that until 2019, we were able to produce beautiful fir trees in Belgium without having to add a so-called plant protection product to others. It should not be discovered at once that we absolutely needed this for our economy. On the other hand, we know that there are producers who do not. I believe that these must be supported and that part of the support for these producers must be not to favour the use of too many plant protection products for others because this places them in unfair competition which will make them fail to do so. On the other hand, granting derogations for crops that feed us is already very problematic for Belgium, when we are already giving too much. In this case, we are talking about cultures that do not feed our people and are purely aesthetic, for our winter pleasure and, at this stage, it is our collective responsibility to limit such derogations and to ensure that economic actors function sustainably for our health and our environment. I invite you to convey this message also to our administrations as well as to the economic actors in our beautiful country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u20	Minister, many majority politicians disagree with the measures decided on at the Consultation Committee on 22 December 2021, which were also extended on 6 January 2022. Some of them even protested against the measures they themselves took. That is not surprising, because the logic behind the measures is non-existent. We note that there is no support for this either from politicians or from some experts and certainly not from the public. We can nevertheless identify inconsistencies in the measures. For example, can you explain why fitness centres can remain open, but why no public is allowed at outdoor sports competitions? That's such a typical example. Can you explain why wellness centres are allowed to remain open, but not recreational parts of pools? Hasn't the government's credibility been increased by the arbitrariness of measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u21	Mr Van Lommel, since the meeting of the Consultative Committee on 6 January, there has been another meeting of the Consultative Committee on Friday 21 January. Then the Consultation Committee approved the barometer for catering, private and public events, organised activities and youth activities. The entry into force of the barometer in level red entails a number of relaxations. The decisions of the Consultation Committee shall be prepared by the Coronac Commissariat, composed of experts and advised by external scientists. Regular consultations are also taking place with the sectors covered by the sanitary measures. Decisions of the Consultation Committee shall be justified on the basis of such preparatory work. The notifications of the Consultation Committee to all relevant authorities are also motivated from the perspective of the sanitary situation. Those elements shall be communicated to the whole population at the end of the Consultation Committee through a press conference and detailed on the https://www.info-coronavirus.be. The rules in force are also explained and explained on that website. At the time I answer your question, sitting audience is allowed to attend sports competitions again. Fitness rooms could stay open in December, because their offer of sports activities is a positive thing for the public and because they are subject to air quality standards. For the wellness centres a similar logic was followed and public access to quiet activities that are good for health was considered positive. However, subtropical pools work in the hand and many people get close together in an uncontrolled way. In my view, a lockdown for certain activities is better avoided. If such a measure is taken, it must be properly justified and based on the situation. Moreover, such a measure implies compensatory aid. It is possible that sometimes the Consultative Committee has made bad choices. Fortunately, we live in a state of law and can be challenged by poorly motivated decisions and, where appropriate, cancelled by the Council of State. The fact remains that many decisions of the Consultation Committee were confirmed after an appeal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u22	Mr Minister, as usual, you started your reply with a general explanation, in particular about the barometer and the easing, after which you finally addressed a number of specific issues. However, I do not understand your argument that you keep certain activities open because they are healthy. So one corona does count, and the other one doesn't. I find that a very strange logic. I understand that operators question the distinction, because that is scientifically unsubstantiated, and that is the big problem, which also leads to frustration among the population and the operators of such centres, among others. You say that wrong choices have been made in the past. That can happen, everyone makes mistakes, but we've been living with the virus for two years now. I fully understand that you are making such mistakes at the beginning, but after all this time we should expect you to know what can and cannot be done, and that such mistakes will no longer be made. You have to make informed decisions on the basis of scientific figures. You didn't do that, and you don't do that until today. I'm pretty skeptical about the barometer. I'm afraid they won't bring much to the dike.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u23	Mr President, Minister, the pig sector is frequently confronted with a crisis. Meanwhile, the industry organisation PORK.be was founded. This should strengthen the position of the sector in the international market and in the chain negotiations. You extended the recognition of agriculture as a sector in crisis in September, and you did so in the first quarter of 2022. As it now stands, there is little chance that the crisis will be resolved by the end of March. New developments, such as the establishment of African swine fever in Italy, are putting further pressure on pig prices. From Europe there is still no green light for taking crisis support measures, although the European Council on Agriculture and Fisheries decided to transfer the dossier to the Special Committee on Agriculture. In your policy paper, you announced a number of other measures, namely the reduction of contributions to the Sanitary Fund and more transparency in the chain by asking the Price Observatory of the FPS Economy to carry out an update of the analysis of pig prices and margins in the pig sector. My specific questions are as follows, Minister. Have you already taken a decision on the reduction of contributions to the Sanitary Fund? By when does the Price Observatory conclude the actualization of the analysis of pig prices and margins in the sector? Will the recognition of agriculture as a sector in crisis be extended? What are you doing to encourage the chain consultation to take action and to facilitate its operation? What action are you taking towards Europe in order to take crisis measures for the pig sector? How does the BFSA facilitate the pig sector for export to the UK after the Brexit? What action is being taken to reopen the Chinese and other closed markets for us pork?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u24	Mr President, I am very concerned about the deep crisis facing the pig sector. This sector has always interspersed silent periods with better periods in what is called the pig cycle. For structural and cyclical reasons, this economic cycle has remained stuck in an unfavourable scenario for the sector. It is therefore very important that we mobilise all available resources to help the sector. I took the initiative to include in the preliminary draft law on various provisions in the field of agriculture and the safety of the food chain a section on the total exemption for the pig sector for contributions to the Sanitary Fund. This provision aims to exempt the sector from the contribution of EUR 3 million by 2021. I intend to extend this measure by 2022, if the European Union accepts this measure. At the end of November 2021 I asked the FPS Economy for an update of the study on the Belgian pig sector. The last study dates from 2015-2016. I should receive the update of this study on prices and margins in the coming days. The recognition of the pig sector as a sector in crisis was requested by the Agrofront in 2021. I have taken the necessary steps with the social insurance funds to ensure that the pig sector is recognised as a sector in crisis for the period from the last quarter of 2021 and the first quarter of 2022. I intend to request an extension of this measure for the three other quarters of 2022. I have organised several meetings with the members of my cabinet with the various actors in the agri-food chain. I want to give the agri-food chain consultation a new dynamic and make it play a more active role in the dialogues between the various links in the chain. This consultation process should form the basis for the future agricultural price policy law that the federal government wants. A new interbranch organisation was established for the pig sector. It's about PORK.be. This structure aims to bring the actors together and define a global policy for the valorisation of their products. The situation of the pigmeat market is regularly on the agenda of the European Agriculture Council. I met European Commissioner Janusz Wojciechowski personally at the European Council of 11 October 2021 in Luxembourg, together with the Belgian regional ministers, to discuss the subject. The European Commission had indicated that production in the pig sector was too high and needed to be regularised. The Commissioner believes that it is better for Member States to take measures through the second pillar of the CAP, rural development and state aid, to restructure pig production. He added that he was in favour of extending the temporary nature of the State aid through the covid crisis. At the European Agriculture Council in Brussels on 17 January last, I again supported, on behalf of Belgium, the request of the Czech Republic to activate the aid measures as a matter of urgency. As part of the certification after the Brexit of the Belgian agri-food products intended for the United Kingdom, I obtained additional budgetary resources for the BFSA. These funds represent EUR 2 million and are intended to further develop the digitisation of the certification of the BE-CERT instrument, in order to facilitate our exports to this country, which has once again become a third country. Since Belgium has regained the status of African swine fever-free country, one of my priorities is to reopen a maximum number of export markets for our products from the agri-food chain. At present, and in particular thanks to the great efforts of the BFSA, only 10 countries have a total ban or partial restrictions on imports of Belgian pigmeat due to African swine fever. These countries are Taiwan, China, Belarus, Australia, India, Vietnam, the Dominican Republic, Sri Lanka, Seychelles and Peru. So far, the BFSA has been able to use zoning for Vietnam and India. zoning means that exports from the infected area or province are no longer possible, but that exports from the rest of the Belgian territory to the third countries concerned can be resumed. Since the nerve centre of the pig sector is not located in the province of Luxembourg, this means that the market for fresh pigmeat from Belgium is almost entirely open to these third countries. At present, therefore, there are still eight third countries to which the export of Belgian pigmeat is not possible as a result of African swine fever. Of course, we are also trying to remove these partial restrictions. The BFSA has already exchanged information with the competent authorities of Taiwan and Australia on several occasions. The BFSA has completed a technical questionnaire and additional questions for these two countries. Once our dossier has been positively evaluated, negotiations and possible exports can continue. In China, a country in which the BFSA has invested a lot since the appearance of African swine fever, including five visits in 2019, and in Belarus, the dossier is politically blocked and progress will only be made if a diplomatic solution is found at European and/or national level. China was the subject of a special strategy. Together with the BFSA I have sent a specific attaché to the Belgian embassy in Beijing. Our attaché is in constant contact with the Chinese authorities. These actions are beginning to bear fruit for various Belgian products. However, negotiations with China are taking place in a complex political environment due to other challenges for which the interventions of our Foreign Minister and our Prime Minister are very useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your answer on this important dossier. The pig sector is facing an unseen and persistent crisis which is partly caused by corona, but there is much more going on in this sector. You explained that in great detail. The reserves of the pig farmers are shrinking. The piggy bank's gonna be empty. The courage of many pig farmers sinks into them. I have also visited a number of pig farmers in the last few weeks. Their bank accounts and their mental well-being both color deep red. Minister, I know that you are very keen on the sector, and I am pleased to hear that. On my initiative, together with Mrs Hilde Vautmans from the European Parliament and Bart Van Hulle from the Flemish Parliament, Open Vld has drawn up an action plan for the pig sector. We are asking for a number of actions at different levels, including at the federal level. These include the question of extending the recognition of the sector in crisis. I am pleased to hear that you have already taken the necessary initiatives in this area. It is also important for us to work on the reopening of export markets and the reopening of the Chinese market, but you have already taken the necessary steps. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u26	Minister, we are sticking to the meat sector and the agricultural sector. The meat processing sector also pointed out a number of problems to me. We have just talked about African swine fever. However, there is also a significant shortage of staff and staff due to illness and quarantine. There is a shortage of raw materials and there are the enormous price increases not only of raw materials but also of energy. Since the meat processing sector often operates on long-term contracts, price adjustment is not very obvious, so that the additional costs faced by the sector cannot be passed on. This weighs heavily on the profitability of the meat processing industry. Very often it is also about SMEs. Today, the sector is faced with a rather bad phenomenon. Some retailers want to break open the current private label contracts with the meat processing companies, not to compensate for higher prices, but rather to lower prices for the products they offer. Minister, all decency is over. How do you view the practices of some retailers to open up contracts and ask for price reductions from the perspective of the UTP Directive, which should counter unfair competition? Will you have an independent audit of the margins on house brands carried out? Will you ask for a meeting with the retailers concerned to make it clear to them that our meat processing industry and the pig sector, which was recognised as a sector in crisis, cannot cope with unfair price pressure? Will you insist that the chain talks come together and ask them to make reasonable agreements which also guarantee an acceptable profit margin for producers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u27	Mr De Caluwé, the law of 28 November 2021 transposing the UTP Directive into Belgian law applies to all agreements concluded from 25 December 2021. Delivery contracts concluded for the publication of the law should be brought into conformity with the law before 15 December 2022. In principle, the principles of free pricing and freedom of contract apply. However, the customer is expressly prohibited from unilaterally changing the terms, including the prices of a delivery contract, during the duration of this agreement. The Economic Inspectorate will therefore have to examine on a case-by-case basis whether or not the new rules can apply. Recently, I had the opportunity to meet various actors in the agri-food chain who are active in the primary and processing sectors. I asked for the cooperation of the FPS Economy, in particular the Price Observatory, to carry out a study on the margins and price transparency throughout the agri-food chain. This complex dossier is currently being examined in depth by my services in order to propose initiatives that respect the interests of all actors in the agri-food chain. As you know, the viability of Belgian operators remains one of my priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u28	Minister, the meat processing industry in Belgium is going through turbulent water. Of course, I am a defender of the free market. Prices must be open to negotiation. However, the large distribution chains must also realise that meat processing companies are colliding with their limits. As I indicated in my introduction, the meat processing sector is an SME sector. I've been looking up the numbers. The sector has 180 family businesses with a total of 6,000 employees and a turnover of EUR 2 billion. They mainly produce for the retail sector and export products to more than 100 countries. However, a large part of this is indeed for private label for the retail sector. Because of the confrontation with growing staff shortages, rising personnel costs and rising raw materials and energy costs, it is important that the chain consultations are conducted properly. I have heard that you will take the necessary steps. It is also important that the meat processing sector is faced with very tough contracts. If companies are faced with too few staff and are unable to supply them, they will receive fines on top of it. The importance of the chain consultation must not therefore be underestimated. I would also like to call on distributors to work on fair trade, but within their own national borders. This is a good example of that. Let us make sure that everyone in the chain can make money in a correct way, that is what this is about. It is an economic system that we must maintain. After all, they ensure that it also remains viable for farmers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u29	At the end of last year, Minister, there was a lot to do about the Psychologists' Committee, an independent body that monitors the deontological behaviour of about 15,000 registered psychologists. There was unacceptable management, problems with the staff of the committee and the registration of fictitious meetings, which led to the payment of undue fees or seat fees. This resulted in the resignation of the then president. I have the following questions, Minister. In the meantime, was an investigation initiated by your services into the functioning of the committee and, if so, what was the outcome of that audit? If not, do you still intend to have the irregularities that the media got checked out? Was the possible financial fraud further investigated? If she was confirmed, was a complaint lodged with the prosecutor's office? Will you amend the internal regulations and thus respond to the sighs of psychologists complaining about opaque procedures?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u30	Mr President, Mr Verreyt, the elements to which you refer have been announced to the public through the press. I have taken note of the articles in De Morgen on 2 December and in Le Soir on the facts accused of the former director and chairman of the Psychologists' Commission. Firstly, it is important to clarify that, contrary to the vocabulary sometimes used in the press, I do not monitor the operation of the Psychologists' Committee every day, every week or every year. The Chair and the Bureau of the Psychologists' Committee are responsible for this, which are designated by the General Assembly. I therefore exercise custody, which is clearly defined in the applicable legal framework, the law of 8 November 1993 protecting the title of psychologists and its implementing decisions. You yourself emphasised the independence of that body, which is financed entirely by the members' contributions. The Psychologists' Committee is obliged to provide me with an annual report on its activities and operating costs, as provided for in Article 8.4 of the Royal Decree of 10 November 1997 laying down the rules of procedure of the Psychologists' Committee. That report shall contain an overview of the operating costs, in particular the costs linked to the fees paid to the chairman of the committee. The fees granted to the President are set at EUR 12,000 per year. I have taken note of the 2020 activity report, which did not contain any worrying elements regarding the functioning of the Psychologists' Committee. It is also up to me to appoint the chairman and vice-president of the Psychologists' Committee, to validate the election of the staff of the General Assembly, to appoint the Presidents of the Disciplinary Boards and to approve the amount of the annual contribution proposed to me by the Psychologists' Committee and to cover the running costs of the Committee. Unlike other existing orders and institutes, the legal framework that organises the operation of the Psychologists Committee does not provide for the presence of a government commissioner at meetings of the General Assembly or the Bureau. The outgoing President was replaced by the new President, Mr Lagrou, after two four-year mandates in May 2021. So far I have not received any complaints, unofficially or officially, about the President's qualities and behaviour or practices. In your question you are talking about financial malpractices in the Psychologists' Commission in the procedures relating to harassment at work. These elements are probably taken from the article published in De Morgen, which is based on anonymous testimonies by former employees and employees of the Psychologists Committee. The elements of fraud concern attendance allowances which would have been paid to the former President for fictitious meetings. If these facts prove to be true, they are serious facts in which fraud is indeed involved. However, they were never reported to me, either by the old or by the new office of the Psychologists Committee, which was appointed in June 2021. On 14 December 2021, I organised a meeting with the Chairman of the Psychologist Committee and all members of the Bureau. They consider that, on the basis of the elements at their disposal, there is no evidence that the former President would have committed fraud with fictitious meetings and therefore no evidence that would justify the lodging of a complaint. The other part of the elements relating to the dispute, which relate to the functioning of the Psychologists' Commission, concerns harassment at work. This problem is managed by a specific procedure laid down by the law on well-being at work. I asked the chairman of the Committee on Psychologists to provide me with a written report on the facts complained of, with due respect for the confidentiality required. That report should also explain the steps taken by the new Bureau to clear this up. I have also received confirmation that the Psychologists' Committee is financially sound. The report delivered to me on 16 December 2021 shows the following. Four members of staff have officially complained to Attentia, prevention consultant on psychosocial aspects at work, for facts of harassment at work. The first complaint dates from 26 March 2021. This has given rise to a formal intervention by Attentia on facts of violence, harassment or unwanted sexual behaviour at work, according to the terminology of the Codex on well-being at work. At the beginning of April 2021, the former President dismissed a staff member with immediate effect, without consulting the Bureau or the General Assembly. Following a complaint by the employee in question and the intervention of the general meeting and the bureau, the staff member was rehired. In June 2021, the newly formed office took up its position. In the context of Attentia's investigation, more than 20 people were heard, including staff and current and former members of the Bureau. Between July and October 2021, five staff members resigned. Four staff members have remained and are still in The president and the Bureau waited for Attentia's report and its independent and impartial recommendations, as well as the results of its investigation before taking a position on management. As a custody minister, it wasn't up to me to intervene in these H.R. cases. Moreover, I do not have direct access to the Attentia report because of its confidential nature. Only the members of the Bureau and the members of staff who have lodged complaints have had access to the report. On receipt of the Attentia report on 22 September 2021, the President and the Bureau decided to dismiss the Director immediately and appoint an ad interim Director. This ensures the operational continuity of the Psychologist Committee and acts as a consultant to the Bureau and the General Assembly. The assignment is temporary and part-time. The selection of the Directorate-Interim was carried out by two members of the Bureau and the General Assembly who are in direct contact with the other members of the Bureau. The interim director took up his duties on 15 November 2021 and exercised his duties on an independent basis. An additional employee was recruited with an administrative support profile. For the future, the Agency has decided to recruit only new staff, including the future director or director, within the framework of a contract of employment. The outgoing director worked as a consultant. The report that I was concerned with emphasizes that the Agency has made additional efforts to ensure, together with the staff of the Psychologists' Committee, the continuity of the committee's statutory tasks or the management of registration and deontology. In terms of structural improvement slopes, the Director's ad interim report points out the following: firstly, ensuring a transparent and regular interaction between the President, the Bureau and the meeting to ensure operational continuity; secondly, ensuring a transparent and regular interaction with external stakeholders; thirdly, addressing a lack of structure in different domains, includinghr. There are currently too many ad hoc, imprecise and little forward-looking measures. The report confirms that serious problems have arisen in the relationship between management and staff in the course of 2021. We must stress that the COVID-19 measures and mandatory teleworking have undoubtedly not helped. These issues are the responsibility of the team leading the Psychology Committee. The new team set up in 2021 under the leadership of the new Chairman has taken the necessary measures to resolve the problems of HR, which have proved to be harassment at work. Nothing in the elements that were reported to me allows me to conclude that they were fraud against which a complaint had to be lodged. Otherwise, by the end of February, I expect from the Psychologists' Committee and its Chairman a detailed note of proposals to ensure greater transparency in the operation of the Psychologists' Committee in relation to the General Assembly as well as other proposals to reform the Psychologists' Committee in the light of the current challenges of the profession. Mr President, I am sorry to have developed such a lengthy presentation, but this subject deserved a very specific answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u31	Indeed, minister, it was a little too long according to our rules, but since there were not too many questions, that was still the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic673x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. In the meantime, I am pleased that you have studied the workings of the Psychologists' Committee and the facts cited. At the beginning of your answer, you pulled the umbrella open a little bit and said that it was not really your responsibility. You said that the committee is under your supervision, but that you should not interfere with the internal functioning of the committee. That's right, of course. However, the facts were unknown to you, which prevented you from investigating them, but you do quote extensively from the same sources from which I obtained my information, the two newspaper articles. Then you can only say that the newspaper articles and the facts that may be quoted are very serious. Then it's your job as custody minister to investigate these facts in detail, isn't it? I can imagine that the committee does not mention the possible problems in its annual report. There will be no major note on this in her financial report either. That is, of course, the construction that has been set up: employees declare, whether anonymous or not, that they have to write fictitious meetings in the agenda in order to raise expenses up to the statutory ceiling. Well, then, isn't it the point of masking a number of cases? If the term'regular fraud' is used, then at least an investigation is needed and it is not enough just to read the annual report. There are other elements emerging, which are also admitted by the President who was subsequently appointed. Then I guess we still need an investigation. I don't think that's gonna take a government commissioner. If cases are reported, the Minister may also request an external audit. After all, the facts, which you have seen in at least one Flemish newspaper and one Walloon newspaper, are no less. Finally, if five people resign on nine staff and four remain, there is a serious problem. If four official complaints have been filed for violence, harassment and unwanted sexual behaviour out of a total of nine staff members, that is no less. Then more research is needed, then perhaps you should see how far you can go, within your powers.
