ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 July 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 July 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u3	Madam President, have we now received the report from the Conference of Presidents? After all, it was agreed that we would get that before the beginning of the plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u4	We will check where the report is.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u5	I insisted on this at the Conference because it is pointless to have a report on a meeting after that meeting. I refer to the misunderstanding about the end hour we had last week. At that time, a gentlemen's agreement was reached that we would get that report on time, which I also think is obvious. So I regret that we are already without a report the first time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u6	I'll have that checked.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an order motion because we do not have the management agreement between Infrabel and SNCB. I have asked for this several times in committee, both to the chairman of the committee and to the minister, but we have still not received it. This is a very important document for the next ten years, in which we will identify which trains will be running, which counters will be open and how much will be invested in the railway lines. This is very important for transport and climate. Since 2013, the law provides that the legislative chambers are to be briefed by ministers on the proposal for a management agreement. We had a first discussion with Minister Gilkinet, unfortunately without video and only with slides, which made it rather difficult, but we did not get the documents then. How can Members do serious work, ask questions and make proposals under the management agreement if we do not have those documents? Madam President, can you ensure that all Members of this House get this document? Now only a few Members of Parliament and the media have gotten that. I would also like to address the Ecolo-Green colleagues. The Minister belongs to the Ecolo party. The Green Group itself tabled a legislative proposal in this area, document 53K0835. This proposal was intended to launch the parliamentary debate before the start of negotiations on management agreements between public undertakings. The explanatory memorandum to this bill was signed by Mr Van Hecke van Groen. It says: 'As far as participation in decision-making is concerned, Parliament is worse off. It is not consulted and rarely takes initiatives to steer the content of the management agreement in a specific direction. To try to interfere in that debate, Parliament has only long meetings with oral questions, but they often do not produce anything." I therefore call for these documents to be received so that we can do our job and prepare ourselves for the next discussion on the management agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u8	Mrs. Vindevoghel, I have received your order motion. I still have to judge its admissibility. If your motion is declared admissible, it may be submitted at a time specified by the chairman. We shall therefore first assess its admissibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u9	Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to endorse Mrs Vindevoghel's question. It concerns the management contracts of SNCB and Infrabel. These are very important documents, they are among the most important documents on the management of our railway companies, not only for this year but for the next ten years. As Members of Parliament, we are being asked to speak out on this. It is incomprehensible, then, that the government would not make these documents available to the Chamber? We must at least be able to learn, including through the government, about documents that are being submitted for consideration. The Court cannot carry out its duties and do no proper work if the Government refuses to make available documents which are the subject of the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u10	Madam President, I agree with the request just made by my two colleagues. Indeed, we have never received these documents, which are essential to "help" the minister to have better control of SNCB and Infrabel. Without these documents, management with the support of Members is totally impossible. I therefore hope that we will receive them as soon as possible so that we can examine them in depth. Of course, we have heard the minister's statement that we have already responded to, but we have no document at all. More recently, we were receiving the unions. We are convinced that they had these documents. I therefore do not understand why the representatives of the people, or at least some, cannot have access to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u11	Colleagues, we will consider the admissibility of your motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u12	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u13	Mrs Fonck, as far as transparency is concerned, for the first time we have formally debated in Parliament the management contracts of SNCB which have been in existence for 14 years, thanks to a bill which was passed on the initiative of Ecolo and Groen. Mrs Fonck, while some are talking about transparency, others are applying transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u14	Mr Parent, Mrs Fonck, this is not the time to debate this issue. [[Tumult]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u15	Everyone was able to state their position. I still have to rule on the admissibility of the motion. If it is admissible, a debate may take place. But for now, I propose that you move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u16	The next item is the election to appoint two Dutch-speaking members to replace MM. Nicolas Waeyaert and Frank Robben, a Francophone member replacing Ms. Séverine Waterbley and the Director of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority. The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of two Dutch-speaking members to replace Mr Nicolas Waeyaert and Mr Frank Robben, a French-speaking member to replace Mrs Séverine Waterbley and the director of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 June 2022 and 6 July 2022, I propose that you proceed to vote on these four terms. In accordance with the opinions of the Conference of Presidents of 29 June 2022 and 6 July 2022, I propose that you proceed to the vote on these four mandates. Nominations were announced during the plenary meetings of 22 April 2021, 24 March 2022 and 21 April 2022. The applications were announced at the plenary sessions of 22 April 2021, 24 March 2022 and 21 April 2022. By email of May 2, 2022, Mr. Tom Ruysschaert withdrew his application for a term as a member of the Knowledge Centre. By e-mail of 2 May 2022, Mr Tom Ruysschaert withdrew his candidacy for a mandate of member of the Knowledge Centre. By e-mail of May 12, 2022, Ms. Nathalie Ragheno withdrew her application for the position of Director of the Knowledge Centre. By e-mail dated 12 May 2022, Ms Nathalie Ragheno withdrew her candidacy for the mandate of Director of the Knowledge Centre. In accordance with Article 40 § 2 of the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, up to two thirds of the members of the Knowledge Centre are of the same sex. In accordance with Article 40 (2) of the Law of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, a maximum of two thirds of the members of the Knowledge Centre shall be of the same sex. In view of the resignation of Messrs. Nicolas Waeyaert (N) and Frank Robben (N) and Ms. Séverine Waterbley (F) and Ms. Alexandra Jaspar (F) (Director of the Knowledge Centre), the Knowledge Centre is currently composed of two men and one woman. In view of the resignation of Mr Nicolas Waeyaert (N) and Mr Frank Robben (N) and Mrs Séverine Waterbley (F) and Mr Alexandra Jaspar (F) (Director of the Knowledge Centre), the Knowledge Centre is currently composed of two men and one woman. For the four vacant terms of office of the Knowledge Centre, the Chamber must therefore appoint at least one male and two female candidates. For the four open mandates of the Knowledge Centre, the Chamber should therefore appoint at least one male and two female candidates. The Justice Commission heard the candidates on 18 and 25 May 2021 and 7 and 21 June 2022. The Justice Committee heard the candidates on 18 and 25 May 2021 and on 7 and 21 June 2022. The rapporteurs, Ms Kristien Van Vaerenbergh and Mr Khalil Aouasti, reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 2 June 2021, 22 June 2022 and 6 July 2022 respectively. The rapporteurs, Ms Kristien Van Vaerenbergh and Mr Khalil Aouasti, reported on these hearings at the Conference of Presidents on 2 June 2021, 22 June 2022 and 6 July 2022 respectively. The documents bearing the names of the candidates were distributed to you (2039/001, 2789/001, 2807/001). Documents containing the names of the candidates were distributed (2039/001, 2789/001, 2807/001).
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u17	The next item is the election for the double list of candidates to be presented by the Chamber for the appointment of a French-speaking judge to the Constitutional Court. The next item is the secret ballot on the double list of candidates to be nominated by the Chamber for the appointment of a French-speaking judge to the Constitutional Court. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 June 2022, I propose that you proceed to vote on this double list. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 June 2022, I propose that the vote be taken on the proposal for this dual list. Nominations were announced in plenary on 30 June 2022. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 30 June 2022. The document bearing the names of the candidates was distributed (2800/001). The document with the names of the candidates was distributed (2800/001). I would remind you that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 32 of the Special Act of 6 January 1989 on the Constitutional Court, the list must be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the votes of the members present. I would remind you that, pursuant to Article 32 (1) of the Special Law of 6 January 1989 at the Constitutional Court, the list must be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the members present. I propose that you proceed with the voting, both for the membership of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority and for the presentation of a double list of the Constitutional Court. I propose that you vote on both the mandates of the Member of the Data Protection Authority's Knowledge Centre and the nomination of a dual list of the Constitutional Court. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. As the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. For a valid vote for the terms of office of the Data Protection Authority, a cross should be drawn in the box opposite the name of the selected candidate. In order to vote valid for the mandates of the Data Protection Authority, the box must be ticked next to the name of the selected candidate. The votes cast in favour of more than one candidate per term on the ballot paper are invalid, as are the votes cast in favour of the same candidate on the ballot paper for the two Dutch-speaking members. Voting cards with a mandate of more than one candidate are invalid, as are ballots for the same candidate for the two mandates of the Dutch-speaking Member. I would remind you that for the Constitutional Court, only ballot papers that mention the name of a candidate presented before the vote are valid. I would point out that the Constitutional Court is only valid for the ballot papers bearing the name of a candidate proposed for the vote. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 July 2022, ballots will be held during the plenary meeting in Room 3, where ballot papers will be distributed, from now until 6 p.m. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 July 2022, I propose that the secret ballots be held at the plenary sitting in room 3, where the ballots will be distributed, from now until 6 p.m. We must draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. We must set up one or two offices of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. Ms. Song and Ms. Hanus are designated to strip the ballots. The ladies Chanson and Hanus are appointed to count the votes. As soon as the ballots are closed, I propose that you proceed to the counting of the various ballots in room 3, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. As soon as the secret ballots are closed, I propose that the ballots of the various secret ballots be counted in room 3, in the presence of the voters. No observation? [[(Non]] [[)]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u18	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. MM. Dieter Vanbesien and Albert Vicar, rapporteurs, refer to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u19	Madam President, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will finish. I was recently a guest on the Economics Committee, which doesn't happen often. It was something else once and nice, because we had a good debate in that committee on this draft law, which is a total screw-up. It is indeed a thick draft with a comprehensive explanatory memorandum and a large number of opinions. The text has clearly been hard worked on. It was also evaluated by the people who were present during the debates; moreover, they have examined in detail whether or not the proposed system will work. Even if we had a good debate, I regret the statement by someone from the majority following the adoption of the report. What happened? Because we were guests, the PVDA member and I received the report later; nobody can do anything about it. A member of the majority said quite laconically that we should have read the report, because we are politicians 24 hours at 24 hours. But I would like to point out that a report reads a little slower than for the others, all the more so when someone has spoken for a long time, has made a lot of comments and asked questions. If the majority does not speak in the debate, then of course she will read the report in five minutes, because she simply has to read her foreword. I divide the explanation of our position on the draft between Mr Michael Freilich and myself, focusing on the legal aspect. We had to wait for the bill. There was already a first decision of the European Court in 2020 and the Constitutional Court was followed in April 2021 by the annulment of the judgment. Since data retention is certainly an important tool in criminal investigations, the destruction of the n judgment was a bomb and researchers were worried about whether they could continue to work and how to deal with it. Luckily, the Anti-Conflict and Anti-Conflict legislation has provided some relief. However, a framework is needed. The European Court of Justice's annulment and observations have highlighted criteria that can be met in order to ensure data retention in a correct manner. That was then worked out in this draft, which the N-VA had hoped you would have come to Parliament earlier. Anyway, the design is here now and I am standing on the speaker's seat, because I would like to make a statement on the matter. There are comments to be made, and we have also raised them. At the end of the journey we did not agree, but that is allowed in a democracy. There are two aspects to data retention: firstly, the data retention authorities, and in this context, the draft law provides that they can reasonably freely decide which dates they will store more or less. The second aspect is access to that data. Most of us are quite fond of our privacy and that is and is also important. If data is to be kept by authorities and then it is necessary to determine who should have access to it, it must be done according to clear criteria. A number of interests need to be weighed against each other. On the one hand, there is the protection of privacy. On the other hand, it is necessary to include in the scale why certain authorities may infringe privacy. The reasons for this are, for example, the safety of our society, a missing child or a missing person in general. Telecom data can certainly help, given the way criminal gangs work, to find someone in a criminal investigation, such as the Sky investigation. So one has to weigh privacy against another interest in order to infringe privacy in the scales. When it comes to the security of our society, it can be explained and framed. In the context of criminal investigations, researchers should have access to telecom data. Criteria have been laid down by the European Court of Justice. The data may not be stored in an undifferentiated manner. These criteria have been fairly well followed in the area of justice. There is still a chance that data retention will be undifferentiated. If the whole country is the geographical area, we are in favour of working according to criteria. In any case, the criteria laid down in the field of justice, particularly criminal investigations, have been followed. Unlike the rest of the N-VA Group, I will abstain from voting on the draft. So I will not vote against what my colleagues will do. After all, I think it is important to give the signal today that Justice needs tools to, among other things, catch criminals and track down missing children. We are indeed convinced of that. With my message, no one will have to say afterwards that the N-VA Justice is working with tied hands in the context of criminal investigations. After all, the N-VA does not want that. Criteria have been followed, but there was still room for improvement. Since I still see room for improvement and want to give the Justice Department the signal that it should be able to continue data retention, I will abstain in the vote. However, I would like to point out that it is not always about the safety of society, which is a criterion which must be tested whether or not access is granted. My colleague will elaborate on that; I will warm you up for a while. I am very concerned that the data retention authority could take advantage of the opportunity to grant access to it outside criminal investigations. Indeed, a whole series of governments has been listed, from administrative, social and fiscal authorities to governments in the framework of scientific and historical research. The balance is no longer in balance. You will argue that you will legally anchor that, Minister, but there is no such anchoring. There is a great contrast between the way data is handled and given access in the context of justice, and the way it is done for other governments. For the Justice Department, this is strictly regulated. Access must go through an investigative judge and there are other conditions. For all other governments, which and route the route can easily access the data, which I believe are protected by the privacy laws, a law can be made afterwards. However, we do not know that today and we have no control over it either. For example, we are giving almost a blank cheque, which I find problematic, because the balance has been lost. I would like to call on colleagues from the other parties to think carefully about this. We all support the fact that justice is provided with the tools to act properly, but that should not be misused to open a door in the same law allowing other governments to access data protected by privacy law and which does not jeopardise society's security. However, it is felt that public authorities should have access to this. I find that a difficult exercise and you have failed to balance it with the present design. That is why my group will be voting against the draft, while I will abstain, because I would very much like to give the signal that our view is that justice should not work with hands behind my back.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, respect for individuals and individual choices, which includes the protection of private data, is one of the three pillars of the Ecolo movement. Any breach in this respect is always a difficult balancing exercise and it is always the result of a compromise. Today we are studying a text that fills a legal vacuum that has existed since the Constitutional Court's decision to invalidate the text that preceded it. On the other hand, judicial authorities need tools to speed up the resolution of investigations. The number of judicial police officers is too limited. We must help them in their work, but that does not mean that we must also strengthen these services. What data are concerned by this retention and this text? I was alerted by worried citizens who said we were going to listen to their conversations. No, this is identification and metadata data. It's not about the content. There is no question of asking for the content of a conversation. With this law, the intelligence and police services, upon judicial agreement, will have more limited access than Google or Facebook. When you write a message, Google and Facebook not only know who you send it to, but also know its content. They can send you an advertisement that matches the content of your text. They therefore have much greater access than is proposed in this text. We need to put things into perspective. Authorities will be able to know where to call, the IP addresses connected and the connection times. The proposed text sets out the locations and conditions for permitting the collection of data, including the level of crime. Places are particularly protected, for example parliaments, airports. In section 126.1, a police service, the NTSU, is mandated to make an annual crime map for the preceding three years. Depending on this level of crime, data may be retained for a period of up to 12 months. The risk is that eventually everyone will reach a level of crime that is as high as 12 months. That's not the point. At the outset, we were clearly concerned that this data was insufficiently differentiated according to location. During the discussion in committee, I was touched by an excellent argument. I have to say it. How can we explain to a woman raped in a wood in a quiet area, how can we explain to the parents of a child lost in the middle of the province of Luxembourg that they do not have the support of the police because we are in a place where crime is low? How can we accept that a child lost in the middle of the Ardennes is less easily found than a child lost in Brussels or on a wharf in Antwerp? Therefore, it is clear that one must also be able to collect the metadata of telephone calls in places where crime is lower. However, what obviously changes is the duration because the probability of this happening is lower. This argument, I leave it to your reflection, but I think it is important. As I said in committee, I believe that this text requires the government to work on whistleblowers as a telephone operator, for example, collects metadata. If I were a Proximus alerter, to communicate a problem within Proximus, I would be very bothered to know that Proximus collects data from me, Proximus, launching alerts on Proximus. Clearly, there is work to be done to protect whistleblowers. Next year we will also see the evolution of crime statistics in quiet areas, with or without data collection. I'll ask the minister in a year's time, if he's still there – I think he will. In conclusion, our group will support this text, which is the result of a balance between the demand of the judicial authorities and the necessary protection of our citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 24 April 2021, the Constitutional Court destroyed the law on telephone data tracking, the so-called data retention law, which required telecom companies to keep data from their customers preventively. According to a number of organisations, including the League of Human Rights and the French-speaking and German-speaking lawyers' desks, the mass storage of data was contrary to privacy and was therefore considered a possible suspect for every citizen. At their request, the Constitutional Court had already destroyed an initial version of the law. The Constitutional Court also followed a negative opinion of the European Court of Justice. The failure to keep track of a number of data led to problems in the police and judicial authorities. For the fight against terrorism and the war on drugs, these data are very useful, as well as for the detection of missing persons. For example, if a child is missing, we are pleased that such data is being kept. Also for investigations into who was present at the scene of a crime, these are all very useful data. However, that should not be a free pass to ignore the right to privacy of all citizens. The court also has other means at its disposal, such as billing data which can be requested from telecom operators. In busy places there are also many cameras available nowadays that can be viewed. Article 11 sections 3 to 5 of this draft law contains a very comprehensive list of geographical locations and zones where any retention obligation will apply. I will not list it, because it is accessible to everyone. However, the perimeter around these zones will be determined by the King. Parliament therefore has no say in this matter. It is therefore possible that almost the entire Belgian territory could be subject to a retention obligation. There are several retention periods of 6 months, 9 months or 1 year, the application of which depends on the number of offences committed in an arrondissement or police area during the previous 3 calendar years. How should a citizen know if he is in an area where his data is kept and how long will his data be kept? In places with surveillance cameras, signs must be placed to inform the citizen. However, there are more flexible rules for the retention of telecoms data. Border municipalities, for example, will be subject to the retention obligation. Do we then place an information board at the border? What is being done with international transit zones at airports anyway? They are also subject to that retention obligation. Will the data of all persons in the transit zones be kept, including those who are only transiting? A number of data of a person who is not in a compulsory storage zone shall be kept if that person is in contact with someone else who is in a compulsory storage zone. So even if one is not in a retention zone, one's data can still be kept. The data retained must also be used for scientific and statistical purposes and can also be consulted by a number of public authorities, such as the tax authorities. Anonymous or pseudonymized data are not always sufficient, which can be a breach of privacy. Article 13, Section 2 (8) of the draft law states that "The administrative or judicial authorities responsible for the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of a fact which constitutes a criminal offence but does not fall within the scope of serious crime may receive the retained data." One can therefore use stored data for the most diverse facts. At the time, I interviewed Minister De Sutter about the problems with the data retention law and then tabled a motion calling for a balanced legislative framework that would provide the judicial authorities with the necessary instruments to combat serious crime, but with attention to the privacy of the citizen and the principle that one is innocent to prove otherwise. I also asked that the new legislation take account of the rulings of the Constitutional Court. This new legislation is before the vote today. The question now is whether it is balanced and takes account of the rulings of the Constitutional Court, and therefore pays sufficient attention to protecting the privacy of citizens, while at the same time meeting the needs of the judicial authorities in the fight against serious crime. Moreover, the question remains as to whether this new legislation will have a long life. There are already signs that this new text will once again lead to proceedings before the Constitutional Court, possibly leading to judgments and the destruction of certain articles. We need legal certainty, not flash-light legislation that is destroyed and restored every now and then. Fighting crime is important, but so is privacy. We don't want to end up in some kind of Big Brother company, where the whole thing of everyone is registered and checked 24/7. The fight against serious criminal acts such as terrorist attacks and so on is a priority for the Flemish interest, but we cannot support the draft law before us in view of the comments and objections. We shall therefore abstain from the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u22	Madam President, first of all, I agree with what has been said by my colleague, Mrs De Wit, about the form of this very rich debate with very interesting and very important exchanges. However, there was this incident with the report. We would have liked more space to have a more serious discussion because there was something. We remain with questions that remain unclear and for which the answers are really not convincing, especially when it is just as important as the one we are dealing with today. One thing is clear: the data are important to fight crime and especially organised crime - we have a recent example with Sky ECC. I don't think anyone's contesting this here. The need for police services and justice to have a legal framework can therefore be heard, but this framework must be strong to ensure its stability over time. To do so, this framework must be in line with European law. When you say that, it's not just a whim of democrats or privacy. Given that this is fundamental and important for the police, for the judicial police in order to carry out this work to combat serious crime, it is all the more important that such a project be stable and that it is not slashed every time. Here, we're already at the third attempt. It is therefore not serious either with regard to the services which need these tools to leave them in this situation of floating. I think that's a pretty important point. Besides the needs of the services, this project also affects the rights and freedoms of virtually all Belgians. I'll come back to it in more detail later. In order to comply with European law, the legal framework must pass the proportionality test. The right to privacy and the protection of personal data is not a subsidiary right that could be derogated from as desired. To illustrate its importance, we can take the example of the United States, where there is serious concern that metadata may be used to track mothers wishing to abort, in states where it has recently become illegal. Indeed, by using this tool, profiles can be obtained by cross-checking metadata. That kind of consequence must alert us. In addition, this project does not go beyond proportionality, Madam and Minister. Several criteria show that this is disproportionate. First of all, this project leads to the removal of anonymity on the Internet. When I indicated it in committee, the minister told me that it was not a right. That is true: it does not constitute a right as such, enshrined in the Constitution or in a law. However, the possibility of becoming anonymous on the Internet is a requirement for the exercise of certain rights. Thus, when WhatsApp announced that it was sharing its data with the rest of the Meta group, personalities such as Edward Snowden voted in favour of another operator that is Signal, which guarantees anonymity. This question of anonymity is not secondary. Indeed, according to the UN Special Report on Freedom of Expression, "encryption and anonymity provide the confidentiality and security necessary for the exercise of the right to freedom of opinion and expression in the digital age. Such security may be indispensable for the exercise of other rights." It also makes the following recommendation: "With regard to anonymity, States should adopt policies of non-restriction or comprehensive protection. States should seek to strengthen encryption and anonymity. National laws should recognize the freedom to protect the confidentiality of such electronic communications using encryption technologies and tools to be anonymous online. States should not impose restrictions on encryption and anonymity, which often facilitate and make possible the exercise of rights to freedom of opinion and expression." This project therefore clearly runs counter to what is requested by the United Nations. To quote the opinion of the Data Protection Authority, "the new definitions of operator and electronic communication service, coupled in particular with the obligation to identify imposed by the new Articles 126 and 127 of the Telecoms Act, introduced by amendment 1 and 2, lead to the impossibility or, in any case, very difficult, any anonymous correspondence on the Internet". With this bill, companies such as Signal, offering secure and anonymous communication services, would no longer be able to operate in Belgium. However, Signal is an essential instrument, used worldwide - because of its confidentiality - by journalists and whistleblowers, but also by the European Commission, which imposes it on its staff. Beyond the substantive issue, I would like to highlight one area of concern. When I asked you in committee about this, you replied that you did not know whether Signal would be affected by these new obligations. You have read me the privacy policy of this company, repeating to me: "If Signal does not process or generate any data, it will not be targeted." All of this gives me the impression that the issue was not discussed upstream. The most worrying thing is that we do not know the practical consequences of this project and their possible impact on fundamental rights. Secondly, I am thinking of the targeted false preservation. The project creates several obligations for the preservation of metadata which, in practice, result in the reintroduction of a general preservation obligation for the entire territory and the population. On the one hand, there are strategic areas, such as motorways, ports, terminals, etc. This means that anyone going through these places will automatically see their metadata stored. There is also the retention of data in criminogenic areas, i.e. places where a certain crime rate is found. Here are the places where three or more offences per thousand inhabitants are registered. I have asked you several times whether you can tell us the coverage rate of the territory and the population on the basis of these criteria. Indeed, in our view, it is essential that parliamentarians be able to know this rate or, at least, to have an estimate of it, before voting on the criteria. We are going to vote for a law of reparation that is intended to respond to an objection by the Constitutional Court on this point. The said Court had annulled the two previous laws on the basis that they provided for widespread conservation. We must therefore ensure that by voting on the bill under consideration, we will not reintroduce widespread conservation. In other words, we need to make sure that the reason why the two bills were slashed is not repeated. The Court of Justice of the European Union admits targeted data retention, but it prohibits widespread and undifferentiated retention. We must not, under the guise of targeting, reintroduce widespread conservation in the territory. Let me quote here Garda Síochána of 5 April 2022: "It is important, in a democratic society, that the preservation of data is the exception, not the rule, and that such data cannot be kept systematically and continuously. This conclusion is even necessary with regard to the objectives of combating serious crime and preventing serious threats to public safety and the importance that they should be recognized. It is up to the Member States, not the Court, to identify such criteria for the implementation of targeted storage, on the understanding that there can be no question of re-establishing, by this means, a generalised and undifferentiated retention of traffic data and location data." I would add a final quote from Mr Vadapalas, a former judge at the Court of Justice of the European Union: " Simultaneous targeting in several areas is to be excluded because it acquires a general character and loses its targeted character". According to him, this bill amounts to allowing targeting measures in so many areas that it would transform targeted retention into general and indiscriminate data retention without establishing the necessary legal safeguards. You answered me every time you couldn't provide these numbers. You told me it wasn't up to the minister to do it. We will vote the law and then apply the criteria and it is only after we know, through a report given by the services, what part of the territory has been targeted by the retention of data. The people I mentioned, they cannot be suspected of not wanting to fight serious crime. These people are very concerned about this question but they warn against your project because, for them, it reproduces the same mistakes that have made that it has been recalculated twice in the past. You still gave us something that stopped me because you told us you couldn't give those criteria. You also said that it was not impossible for the entire national territory to be subject to data retention. I quote: "If this hypothesis is encountered, then it will be a conservation targeted in its approach but generalized in its consequences". Basically, you do not exclude that the application of these targeting criteria will result in the targeting of conservation across the territory. The word "target" is in the text, but everything suggests that it is not targeted at all. You do not exclude that the consequences of this targeting will be the generalization of data retention. Again, this lack of a definitive answer was truly challenging. Either you didn't test your criteria before proposing them here, or you know the consequences, but you don't dare tell us openly. I don't see a third alternative. On the other hand, others have done the calculation for you. If we take the serious crime rate of three, five or seven facts per thousand inhabitants as provided for in your draft law and result in the preservation of metadata for six, nine or twelve months respectively, the result is, on the basis of the data published by the Federal Police, a retention for the maximum period of twelve months in the whole Belgian territory, except in the cantons of the East where the conservation will be only nine months. This is quite logical since the average rate of serious crime on Belgian territory is 11 facts per thousand inhabitants. In committee, you challenged these figures. You told me that the average rate of serious crime is less than 11 facts per thousand inhabitants. I'm ready to hear it, but can you tell me how much it is? Give us this calculation! You have also indicated that the NTSU, the technical service of the Federal Judicial Police, will carry out the mapping based on the data of the General National Data Bank (BNG). But we already have this data. Why not have already done this calculation? I am also surprised that we do not even have a preliminary assessment. You still provided a number on second reading. It took a lot of pressure to get at least something. You told us that with strategic locations alone, we're 30 percent of the territory. This suggests that there is already a map somewhere that demonstrates it. All that is missing is the estimation of the other criteria. This one, we're still waiting for him. Minister, if you are challenging the figures I have recalled, why not provide your own figures so that we can discuss them on a correct database? At the moment, this discussion is very difficult because you are challenging the figures, but you are not giving them in return. You've also presented me with some kind of back-up position, let's say. You are already defending yourself that conservation will be widespread, which is quite symptomatic. You say: "If the criteria were applied to countries other than Belgium, they would result in non-general coverage of these. Belgium is a small country." So you did not estimate the coverage rate in Belgium but you have this rate for other countries. Again, why not provide these figures? There was talk of coverage, but there is another element that is the concept and definition of a serious offence that is too broad. Indeed, you have indicated that the Court authorises the retention of targeted data, in particular on the basis of the rate of serious infringements. We must also know what is behind the expression "serious criminality". The concept used in the bill refers to section 90 ter of the Code of Criminal Investigation (CIC), which provides for cases in which an investigating judge may order a wiretap. It is a concept that is particularly broad and includes, for example, fake computer science, computer fraud, possession of narcotics, etc. I understand that you wanted to make some sort of analogy on the basis of this article 90 ter of the CIC, but that is an analogy that, in my opinion, is false. It is not simply possible to transpose offences that allow a judge to order wiretapping to store data upstream of geographical areas, first because, in the case of wiretapping, they must be ordered by an investigating judge, which is an additional guarantee, then because the wiretapping is actually targeted at an individual or a group of individuals and does not concern entire populations. Even if it does not go through an investigating judge, even if we go to the end of this logic, here in Article 90b, it only concerns an individual or a group of individuals in any case. This does not concern the 11 million inhabitants. That is different from your bill. The analogy with this CIC article is not justified. At this stage, the Court of Justice of the European Union does not define serious crime; however, it is not at all certain that the reference to Article 90b goes beyond the criteria which it might have to define. Again, this raises a real question as to the proportionality of the bill. There is also the element of targeting, which will be based on unreliable data - the least we can say. In order to target the areas in which the data should be kept, the data of the General National Bank (BNG) of the police, which contains all the facts found or suspected as they are qualified at the beginning of the investigation, will be used. The BNG has millions of people - 3 million in 2019. As the Police Information Review Body (PIB) itself points out, "there is quite enough frying on the line with regard to the accuracy of police records". That is, they themselves question the accuracy of this recording. In its 2020 Annual Report, the COC states that the BNG contains many inaccuracies and/or errors, such as the mischaracterization of the facts. The people concerned themselves question the reliability of the BNG. In addition, there is another problem that I find more fundamental, namely that the BNG lists all suspected offences, not just those that are the subject of a conviction. This tends to inflate the figures, as some of these offences will be dismissed, filed without further action or acquittal. It is therefore anticipated that targeted data will be retained in certain areas, but based on data that are known to be unreliable and sometimes false.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u23	The project also reintroduces a general conservation obligation to combat network fraud. According to Article 122(4) of the new Telecom Law, operators will have to keep the location and other traffic data necessary to analyse and detect fraud and malice. Here too, it gets stuck. Because Article 122(4) in fact creates an obligation to keep the location and traffic data of all users systematically, which is not accepted by the Court of Justice of the European Union. In short, this data retention is far too broad in relation to the objective pursued. Worse still, the data retained pursuant to Article 122(4) may be communicated to the authorities and for the purposes referred to in Article 127/1, therefore, in particular to the law enforcement authorities and the intelligence services. As indicated by ODA, the project de facto results in the reintroduction of a generalised and undifferentiated data retention obligation to combat crime, which has already been censored by the Court of Justice of the European Union and by the Constitutional Court. Here I quote the Constitutional Court: "The Court confirms that Union law precludes the widespread and undifferentiated retention of traffic and location data relating to electronic communications for the purpose of combating serious offences." Even if serious crime does not justify the widespread retention of data, a fortiori, fraud, which does not necessarily fall within the definition of serious crime, cannot either. The Human Rights League does not say anything else and considers this system to be manifestly disproportionate. Again, I am really not convinced that this project is passing the ramp of control by the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Constitutional Court. Above all, I am thinking of another element; this project is missing its target. I said that the project was not proportionate, but we need to look at another criterion, that of necessity. Clearly, is it useful and necessary to keep the data in the way that is proposed in your project to combat serious crime? Is this going to work? This is a question that needs to be asked because the objective is that it works. I am responding to the arguments already heard that this system of data retention would be indispensable in the fight against organised crime, for example. Some sort of consensus is not really questioned by the other parties, who consider that data retention will help reduce crime. These are unilateral statements and are not based on any studies that accredit this effectiveness. In committee, I asked for such studies to be produced. If we turn to such fundamental rights as freedom and privacy – including disproportionately – we must at least ensure that it is effective. There is a need to address this issue. On reading the opinion of the Data Protection Authority (PDA), it appears that this is far from obvious. I quote: "Criminals who wish to escape surveillance will find other means of communication that will allow them to preserve their anonymity." Moreover, ODA believes that this will not help justice prosecute offences. The Human Rights League (HRL) does not say anything else in its opinion: "In the fight against serious crime, the bill before us is, in our view, primarily a disastrous political choice." It's written by the LDH; it's not me! A study by the European Parliament's research service – which is not the study service of the PTB – shows that data retention laws do not have measurable effects on crime in EU Member States where a data retention law has been passed and enforced. Moreover, it appears that in Austria, where such a law was repealed in 2015 due to inefficiency, the crime elucidation rate increased massively from 44% in 2015 to 52.5% in 2018. The number of reported crimes has decreased. This law was abandoned in 2015 by Austria and the crime elucidation rate increased between 2015 and 2018. That means they solved more crimes after they abandoned that law than when they had it. That raises the question. In the Netherlands, where the law is no longer in force since 2016, the crime elucidation rate increased between 2016 (25.5%) and 2018 (28.5%). It's the same thing. In Italy, Sweden and Spain, where similar laws are in force, there is no positive trend but a stabilization or even a reduction in elucidation rates. These figures come from a study by the Research Service of the European Union. Another 2011 study carried out in Germany, cited by the League of Human Rights (LDH), shows that after two years of the law's entry into force, the retention of data had not made the prosecution of serious crimes more effective. While the retention of data has enabled the police to register more criminal acts than before, serious offences have been less often clarified than before all communication data were retained. According to the LDH, the counterproductive effects of keeping data on criminal investigations can be explained by user avoidance behaviour. We are talking about organized crime, about powerful networks that have the means. Minister, if they know you're keeping the data, you'll have 11 million Belgians, but organized crime will find other means of communication. I think there'll always be this chat and mouse game. They're experts in the field who say it, it's not me. I rely more and more on experts, and they say to you: "In order to avoid the recording of sensitive information, users intending to protect their communications use other means". If we want to take a measure that violates rights and freedoms, we must first determine what its real impact will be, if it is to achieve the objective we set ourselves, namely, in this case, the fight against crime. Minister, the burden of proof is on you. It is up to you to show us that what you are proposing meets the needs and creates the difference. If I have presented you with studies that show the opposite, you have not told me of any studies that support your vision and your bill. In conclusion, this bill is not proportionate. It again introduces a generalised retention of data, whereas previous draft laws have been annulled for this reason by the Constitutional Court and the Court of Justice of the European Union. The tool given to our police services is unreliable. Indeed, as it is based on databases that are unreliable, its effectiveness is not demonstrated. Not only is it based on data that contain errors and inaccuracies, but legal certainty is not guaranteed; there is a great risk that this law will be annulled again by the Constitutional Court. Time could be saved on the basis of the experience of neighbouring countries that have introduced similar schemes rather than replicating the same mistakes, as has been the case for years. In the meantime, I believe that this bill will have the same fate as the two previous bills and that it will be cancelled. That is why our group will vote against your bill, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u24	Madam President, I see the minister looking at me black. I assure you, minister, my expression will be less detailed. To govern is to provide for, but we have rarely seen a bill providing for a part of it to come into force five years later, which is the time it takes for operators to be in order at the technical level," you explained, minister. Certainly this metadata bill has a very important technical aspect, but it must not make us forget the essential nature of metadata. According to the Federal Police, almost 100 per cent of investigations into serious and organised crime are made decisively on communication data collected under the umbrella of the "data resonant" system. In the same vein, the vast majority of judicial investigations into serious facts cannot be carried out without the use of data provided by telecommunications operators. This data is equally essential for basic police processes such as the search for persons who have disappeared in a disturbing manner or the identification of persons who have made a call to the Police Relief in case of emergency or distress. The figures easily demonstrate the volume of these data in the judicial police process. In 2020, more than 1,749,000 identifications were requested from operators in the investigation and search of missing persons. Nearly 49,000 traffic data requests were submitted to operators. This is obviously colossal and underlines the importance of providing a clear and sustainable framework for the preservation of these metadata. But, as we know, the history of the metadata law has cause for concern. Both the law of 2013 and the law of 2016 were opposed and overturned by the intervention of the Constitutional Court as well as by the positions taken by the Court of Justice of the European Union. This is normal because, in addition to the issue of security, the preservation of metadata has a crucial privacy impact. Limitations were laid by the highest judges who considered that the obligation to keep data relating to electronic communications should be the exception and not the rule, which led to the annulment of the law of 29 May 2016 which was based in principle on an obligation to keep all the data concerned in general and without distinction. In the case of the surplus, the Court refers to the national legislature to make the necessary distinctions between the different types of data subject to storage, so as to ensure that, for each type of data, interference is limited to the strictly necessary. The balance, the balance between data collection and privacy and the avoidance of widespread and undifferentiated preservation of metadata must therefore be achieved. However, Minister, the bill raises a great deal of questions in this regard, particularly with respect to the geographical criterion. The draft law envisages imposing on operators the collection of data in certain areas considered to be at high risk of serious crime - airports, stations, etc. In addition, you plan to require the systematic retention of data on boroughs which are subject to a high rate of serious infringements according to statistical criteria, this has already been mentioned, but this criterion is so broad that it may indeed cover the whole of Belgium and its citizens, again leading to widespread and almost undifferentiated conservation. Beyond the geographical criterion, there is the question of respect for professional secrecy, which is completely inadequately protected in the bill, as Counsel.be pointed out in his opinion. Avocats.be was not followed when he made concrete proposals in order to prevent the breach of professional secrecy. Another problematic aspect of the law before us is cryptography. This law limits the possibility of providing for fully encrypted systems, whereas on several occasions at international level, the encryption of data has been advocated in order to ensure the security of flows and the protection of personal data. All the frailties and frailties inherent in this bill can only allow, unfortunately, a future passage before the Constitutional Court with a high risk of partial or total annulment. It cannot be said that you have reassured us sufficiently, Madam Minister and Minister, about the risk of future cancellation. However, if this cancellation were to take place and we keep a timing similar to that known since the law of 2016, we would find ourselves in 2028 to finally finalize this law. This uncertainty can only be regretted in view of the importance of metadata in the fight against crime and the need to provide an operational tool to police services today. For all these reasons and elements that I have detailed to you, we will abstain from this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u25	Madam President, my colleague Sophie De Wit has already explained how we will vote later. We will indeed vote against, but of course we will not vote against because we are against the principle that criminals should be taken into account. On the contrary, we certainly must continue to do so, but what we are missing in this draft law is the importance of citizens' privacy. Some of our substantive objections are therefore based on these points. I would like to point out what the Data Protection Authority itself said on this subject. She mentioned a change of perspective that is needed, an important word that will often come back. It was about a change of perspective on how to deal with the balance between crime on the one hand and the data and privacy of our citizens on the other. The fact that earlier laws have already been destroyed several times should prompt us to reflect on whether we should do the same thing over and over again or whether we are prepared to make that change of perspective. I quote the GBA: "The Authority insists that the recovery law effectively implements the change of perspective imposed by the case law of the European Court of Justice and the Constitutional Court and that therefore no new measures on the retention of traffic and location data can be imposed which would lead to a legal or de facto re-introducing of the obligation to retain traffic and location data of all or too much of the users of electronic means of communication in Belgium." However, in its opinion, the GBA notes that the draft law did not completely change this perspective, as it was intended to impose new measures to preserve traffic and location data. This concerns specifically the fight against fraud, malicious use of the network and ensuring network security. The GBA thus says: "Unless the recovery law is thoroughly reviewed to ensure that it brings the required change of perspective, both the retention of such traffic and location data by operators and their communication to the different authorities would constitute an infringement of the AI privacy directive. A new annulment of the recovery law by the Constitutional Court could seriously undermine citizens' confidence in democratic institutions." What's it about? We think the cure is worse than the ailment. People are sick again in the same bed. Several provisions in the draft law clearly constitute a violation of privacy and fundamental rights. The draft provides for double infringements, both in terms of detention and access. This draft law is not in line with the case law of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Justice. The rule that the retention of traffic and location data should be an exception is clearly not followed here. We have already said that there should not be a re-establishment of the obligation. We must not go to general and undifferentiated detention. In any event, in the fight against fraud and malicious use of the network, a general and undifferentiated detention will certainly be introduced. There are two elements involved. On the one hand, it concerns the location data of the telecom operators in the recovery law that we now have. On the other hand, a new element is added to this law on malicious use of the network. I asked the Minister of Justice a question on this in committee. Europe clearly states that an undifferentiated retention of telecoms data should not be allowed. He's gonna do that now, not only for cell phone operators but also for the network. The Minister's reply was: "Mr Freilich, the European Court of Justice has not ruled on this issue." That is true, but even a child of eight years of age understands that if the court says that this cannot be done in principle and thereby pronounces destruction for everything that has to do with the tracking of cell phone data, it will of course do so for everything that has to do with the network. Another aspect that has already been mentioned here is access to this data. We do not believe that access is consistent either, because the data stored can be communicated to too many authorities, not only to the security services, for far too wide-ranging purposes, i.e. not only serious crime, but not only for judicial authorities but also for administrative authorities. However, we know that all these data can only be kept if our national security is compromised. So it goes far too far if, from now on, administrative authorities also have access to these data. The Court of Justice considers that access by authorities to retained data can only be justified by objectives of general interest. The Court states, however, that the legislator may provide that authorities may have access to retained data for other purposes, but only if those later processing purposes are the protection of national security or the fight against serious crime. In what is now the case, that is not the case. The draft law is therefore not in line with European requirements. I would like to return to some of the statements made by the Minister in committee. The Minister stated: "The present bill is aimed at restoring the destroyed data retention law." That is not entirely correct, because the draft law goes much further. Not only is the destroyed data retention law restored, as many as 18 amendments introduce completely different things, for example on keeping subscription data from whom a mobile phone wants to buy. The draft contains the provisions which prevent the purchase of a number anonymously in our country. All aspects of network security are also included in the draft law. The Minister stated that the present draft law is a balancing exercise between the individual right to proper protection of personal data and the collective right to security and operational needs. We believe that the balance in this draft law is still lacking. The pendulum goes on to the side of security, the needs of the security services. Don't get me wrong, safety is extremely important, but we do see an imbalance. This is based on the findings of the Data Protection Authority. I told you, the GBA in this is your friend, not your enemy. After all, the Data Protection Authority is the privacy expert and we can also assume that this will also be the case in this dossier, on which the GBA makes a rather heavy opinion. The Minister also states that high crime rates are being objectiveised on the basis of transparent criteria. Based on crime figures at a particular location, it will be possible to retrieve and track data for that location. The Minister talks about transparent criteria. Well, the government is currently failing to provide the necessary transparency. We do not know whether it will cover the whole territory. Minister, you left the possibility open in committee. Do not tell me that the government has not considered which part of the territory will or will not be covered. You have the numbers. You'll have to make that public to us, too. I can't imagine there would be no numbers. They may not be final figures. If you do not report them today, I will request them on the basis of the principle of public administration. Then one is obliged to communicate all communication that has been exchanged about it. You insist that the cost of the law will not end up with the consumer. I also dispute that. The telecom operators are being hunted for costs and they will want to pass them on. Speaking of telecom operators, I quote from ISPA and Agoria's advice on geolocation-based data retention: "The proposal to organise the retention obligation in a geographical manner imposes a huge IT burden on operators. It is technically complicated to link the origin and termination of the conversation. We therefore consider this requirement to be disproportionate." A mobile call that starts in one particular zone may end in another zone. Each customer at a fixed location should be linked to the data retention based on geographical locations. However, we have seen that the addresses can change as a result of the specific characteristics of crime. Moreover, the text gives operators five years to implement the provisions. Five years is a very long time. That is also clever, because no doubt the majority secretly hopes that they will go to court and that the court will destroy the rule again. Maybe you won't be a minister by then and we'll be back to square one. We certainly expect that. What does ISPA rightly notice? I quote: "Snapping rules leads to significant cost increases and also inefficiency for operators. Moreover, as a country, we run the risk of having to adapt to its systems afterwards in order to meet European standards. ISPA and Agoria ask the Belgian legislator to take due account of developments at European level and to align as far as possible with other Member States. This improves legal certainty." I fully understand that argument. Belgium is not the largest country. We must therefore ask ourselves whether we cannot work together at European level for such fundamental adjustments to a company's software system. Furthermore, it is unclear what is meant by conservation according to geographical areas. But I am not going to go into that further, since colleagues have already discussed our comments in detail. When it comes to network security, the BIPT may conduct its own investigation, without the request of an attorney of the King. The reason given is that a king's prosecutor needs a considerable amount of time to provide for a claim, which does not always make it possible for a firm action to take place. Do you consider such justification appropriate and acceptable? Will the infringements then be controlled administratively? After all, BIPT is an administrative body. When will criminal treatment be chosen? Should agreements be made between the King's Attorney and the BIPT? In addition, we noted in committee that the framework of some so-called OTT's, over the top providers, - all operators who offer applications such as whatsapp and signal via mobile phones and otherwise - should not be kept up to date. The government stated that BIPT should sit around the table with the operators and check whether or not the legislation applies to them. The government therefore imposes obligations on operators, of which it does not itself know whether they apply to those operators. Is it then effectively intended that BIPT will have to sit at the table with all kinds of operators from all over the world to look at the legislation? It seems a little far-fetched to me that anyone who offers a platform, anywhere in the world, for example, game designers who have a chat function built in, so hundreds of international companies, will come to the BIPT tomorrow. I'm concluding. Of course, the fight against crime is particularly important, but individual rights and freedoms must also be respected. There can only be derogations to the extent that this is strictly necessary in a democratic society. The design does not have that balance in it. The text really brings all the metadata about where we've been lately, what we've been doing, with whom, how long and also about our online behavior, into huge databases. These data can then be accessed by the government at any time. That's downright terrifying. The rule must be that the government has no authority with that data. They belong to the private sphere. The case law on this is clear: it is impossible to keep track of such sensitive data without differentiation. This can only be done if national security is compromised. The legal text does not impose that limitation. Minister Van Quickenborne claimed the same thing in words, but I think his actions, namely this draft law, show the opposite. Our country is also furthest from all European states. That's a disgrace. For a liberal minister, that can count. That is why we will be voting resolutely against the draft law before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we discussed the texts in detail in committee. That is why I would just like to come back to the main points. Colleagues, it is a very important draft. That's what the discussion shows. It was also not an easy discussion, discussion that had a whole history. This is the third time that we have had a debate here in Parliament on such an arrangement. It is the Constitutional Court and the European Court that have intervened in previous attempts to settle the issue, which has meant that we have to find a solution. The government has made a very serious attempt to meet a particularly great challenge and thus to work out a solution that is in line with the case law of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Justice and provides sufficient guarantees to protect privacy while at the same time serving other interests. Other speakers have also referred to this. It is mainly about security and the importance of such data in solving often very serious crime. There are many examples, but there is one example that I will always quote and continue to quote, because it shows how important these data can be, namely a disappearance. If someone, an adult, a young woman or a child disappears, we have unfortunately experienced such things in the past, then one immediately goes looking and tries to locate the mobile phone. Which cell tower last detected a cell phone signal? Who did the missing person have any contact with just before he disappeared? If there are suspects, one can check whether they were in the vicinity of the last cell phone signal of the missing person during the period of the disappearance. In this way one can draw up a list of suspects, but also remove people from the suspect list, as it turns out that they have nothing to do with the case. It is therefore crucial to have access to these data. When this data is used, it is serious crime and it is done at the request of a prosecutor. Often an investigating judge is appointed who uses all means to find the missing person. The goal is then to find the missing person alive, but unfortunately after a few days one often goes looking for the remains. In order to find out, we must of course have data at our disposal. There is no point in looking for essential data. Such data should therefore be kept. The text also contains other methods and techniques. Talks or the quick freeze and the future freeze. These are techniques that allow data to be stored from the moment of an incident. For certain crimes, it should also be possible to go back in time and consult data from the past, especially in the case of disappearances. In certain cases, they must also be kept. That is the biggest challenge we face. I believe that everyone also realizes that in such cases, justice, police and security services should be able to rely on this information. On the other hand, we must also be careful that we do not become a police state and that data is not used and stored so massively that privacy is compromised. We have carried out a special balancing exercise for this purpose. We therefore believe that the text before us is balanced. They have also chosen to work with geographical criteria. That is a suggestion from the European Court of Justice. To be honest, I do not think that is a clear criterion either. I can understand the logic. Working with this criterion means that there can and will be a distinction in the way data are stored and the duration of the detention, depending on where a particular crime occurred. One then looks at areas where the concentration of crime is highest. It is always dangerous to give examples, but it is logical, for example, that crime rates in a city such as Antwerp or Brussels are slightly higher. Although, that's not always true either. In some areas the figures are lower. People will only be older from a missing child. Once the child has disappeared in Antwerp, it will be easier to retrieve the data or go back in time for longer. If the child has disappeared in the forests of the Ardennes, or an area that is not eligible for longer detention, the data will not be retrieved. You will only be older than the child where in one case more resources can be used to find the child or the perpetrator than in the other case, when the data are available. I would very much like to hear some of the criticisms. But I ask them honestly: how will you solve that? How will you explain that? This is about solving serious crime. That is why Mr de Wit said that she understands the criminal part and the challenges it poses and will abstain. It's important that we have that. That doesn't mean that every text ahead is always perfect, but that's the challenge. We need such an instrument. Will the draft survive the test if there is a further complaint to the Constitutional Court and possibly a further question for a preliminary ruling to the European Court of Justice? We don't know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u27	Mr Van Hecke, it is true that a parent who sees that his child has disappeared with his phone in his pocket will very quickly be pleased that the police will be able to trace that phone number. That stays anyway and used to be no problem with the quick freeze and the direct freeze. We are talking here about going back in time and tracking data. You pose an ethical dilemma, how can we tell these parents that this is not possible? That is a correct dilemma, but we are asking the wrong question because we are faced with the destruction of the data retention law by the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court determines, not us, which is often the case, because politicians have to solve it. We can be in favour of it or against it, but that is not what the debate should be about. You might have been one of the lawyers to prove to the Constitutional Court why the law is needed, but today there is a law destroyed. The Constitutional Court has said that the data retention law cannot be applied, and it takes into account all aspects, including the case of a child being kidnapped, before it makes a ruling. It's bothering us now. There is discrimination between a child lost in the Ardennes and a child lost in Antwerp. Antwerp is a strategic zone, because there is more crime and so all the data are stored there. As a result, the child can be helped in Antwerp, but in the Ardennes it cannot be helped. So you have made a very correct point, Mr Van Hecke, but that also shows that today we are in a logic in which we are trying to circumvent the judgment of the Constitutional Court. I understand that's what you want to do. As a parent, so would I. That is an ethical dilemma, but I say that we should not answer that question today. We are dealing with pears because the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Justice have said that the law cannot be done. The question is how to solve it. We believe that if the law again covers the entire territory, we will go back to destruction. So we need to find the right solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u28	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, everyone is constantly talking about the missing child, crime and terrorism. As far as I'm concerned, that's not the point of the story. No one disputes that researchers should have tools, that is necessary. We just had an interesting discussion, with retention on one side and access on the other. There is a very strong focus on conservation, while focussing on who gets access. That is the problem in this bill. If researchers have to work strictly regulated under certain conditions, as tried in this draft, this will not be easy in practice. A lot of data and statistics are needed. It'll be quite a challenge for the federal judicial police. They believe in it, they want to go for it, but it's not obvious. The problem of the geographical aspect has been raised here. It is indeed not an easy criterion. It's a coat rack that's been handed over. This is strictly regulated. Our point is somewhat drowned by always referring to criminal law. That is because this draft for access not only focuses on what is needed in criminal investigations, but also adds a whole list of other authorities that can also access the stored data. That's just our point. There's storage on one side and access on the other. For Justice, it is strictly regulated, in the hope that we will pass the test this time and that this law will not be destroyed, while this is not yet settled for the other authorities and must therefore be done afterwards. That's my concern. After all, we do not know these criteria today. The argument of the missing child, crime and terrorism must not be used to open the way to access by other governments, in other contexts and under very different conditions. The balance between freedom, privacy and security is no longer there. That is the crucial point. Everyone is easy to talk about by always talking about that obvious. If one of my four kids were missing, I wouldn't care about data either. I'd want my child back. That's obvious. It is about all the other data to which the government and the route are to be given access. This is not always about the safety of our society, but about historical research, scientific research or social research. Read the list. That's my point. That is our concern, Minister. We have already had this debate and we disagree. Again, I have no problem with that. It's allowed in a democracy. However, I would like to say, Mr Van Hecke, that the problem lies in access. I believe you will follow me there. We just talked about it. One cannot work with two sizes and use other criteria or other bets. Then it's not always about safety anymore. The legislation that gives access to other authorities is still to come, and it may have to meet criteria other than those of the Justice Department. If these criteria are less stringent, then we have a problem. That's actually our point.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u29	Minister, is it possible for you to wait for all interventions to respond? It's a procedural concern. We should have stayed on the debate with Mr. Van Hecke. We got away from it. Is there an emergency?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u30	Madam President, I do not want to take advantage of my speaking time, and I do not think that I often do so in plenary. However, this is a debate, things are being raised and then it is up to me to replicate. If there is no reply, any debate will be killed. Mr De Wit, you say that safety is right for you. You will abstain, you will not vote in favour, but you will abstain. That's obvious. Then you're talking about the other governments. You say that there are no rules, that it is not clear and so forth. Mr De Sutter and I will reply to that later. I want to talk now about security, about my department, about justice. I hear two statements coming up with the N-VA Group. You say that when it comes to the fate of your children, when they disappear, and also when it comes to other children, those records must be kept. You say you don't care if those data are kept. In other words, those data must be kept up to date. That's what you're saying. No problem. Your neighbor, who's behind you, says this can only be done when it comes to national security. Those were your final words, Mr Freilich. Does the disappearance of a child fall under national security? Is that your definition of national security? Moreover, you say that we will be fine with that quick freeze and future freeze. Do you know what you're saying? You speak of a quick freeze, but do you know what you're saying? Quick freeze and future freeze are about data that is tracked from the moment the investigation starts, not before. What if a child disappears, whether it is Mrs De Wit's child, from you, Mr Freilich, or from anyone in the country, and the investigation cannot start immediately, because one does not know. When it comes to a child being locked up in a safe house, a place where there are rapists, in the underworld, you say we shouldn't know that data. So you say, Mr Freilich. That is the point, ladies and gentlemen. The N-VA Group will be voting in a split vote later. Mrs. De Wit will abstain because she thinks safety is important, she says. The rest of the group will vote against. I find this incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u31	Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, I will be clearer. We are currently in the first round of the debate. Subsequently, we will hear the Ministers' response. Let's not get into a debate with the minister now! I would like each of the groups to speak clearly. Mr. Prévot has yet to speak. But I would like to see the round completed and the ministers answer. Of course, you'll get a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u32	Madam President, Minister, I am not in the game of bidding you want to make of it. You make it something that it isn't, you know that well enough, I've explained it repeatedly. As far as justice is concerned, you know the techniques well enough. This is a general debate, so I will not go into too much detail, because we have already had the debate in committee. One votes in favour or against an article or abstains and then votes on the whole. This is my vote on the whole. As far as safety is concerned, the balance can be made very well, but I understand very well that you do not want to see that difference. N-VA is very consistent. Around safety, the criteria have been worked out. I am not sure if they will pass the test and I have asked questions about this in committee, but practice will have to prove that. An attempt has been made, she is motivated and there are geographical zones. That is not an obvious criterion, so it is not at all certain that you can make it. So we can ask questions and have reservations about that, and that is what my colleague has done. It's about security, but I've made it bigger, national security and missing children. When it comes to the principles and the balancing of these interests, I think it is clear to everyone that this is much easier to make, but you do not answer them. You are very easily ignoring that and you say that the N-VA vote is divided. It is, however, about the other achievements for which the door is also being opened and whose criteria cannot be checked in the same way today, because the legislation is not yet in place. That is the point, Minister. You seem to be having a very difficult time with that. You may continue to say that the N-VA is divided. I'll leave that on your tab. People can sometimes also have a nuanced position, and that is the case here. We have technical and other comments on a draft law, we want to vote against it because there are many things we do not agree with, but I do not want you to take advantage of it afterwards to say that the N-VA is against security. I don't want to. I'd like to give that signal. I do think it is important that there is data retention for the criminal investigations, so that the criminal investigators can move on. In fact, you should have split your design into two shutters. Criminal law is now being used far too easily to quickly ignore the other. The problem with the Court's ruling is that people have focused very hard on data retention, but much less on access and to whom access is granted. But the Minister isn't listening anymore, so I'm gonna finish. The proof of the pudding is in the eating . I think our position is clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u33	Madam President, I agree with the Minister that a direct reply would, of course, give much more scope for a debate, rather than lengthy speeches, sometimes repeating the full debate from the committee meeting. Minister, as chairman of the group, I will make it clear that Mrs De Wit's vote and the rest of the group have been discussed and approved in full. There is a clear consequence, and that consequence is now in the picture. You are both sitting here, Mr and Madam Minister, but if it was only a part of the justice system, then Minister De Sutter would not be here and in that case we could have voted on that part in a pure way, as Mrs De Wit says. However, with the present draft law, we are forced in a certain direction. If there is something wrong somewhere in the lyrics, but there are also good things in them, then there is the possibility that we may permanently abstain from voting, a kind of continuous abstinence, because there is something good and a little less good in it. Mrs De Wit discussed everything relating to the fight against crime, which is being attempted. The future will tell whether that works, because I agree with Mr Van Hecke that as a politician we should not make a preliminaries for possible results. However, it is about the combination, while you are trying to deny it. There is, somewhat brutally formulated, a huge difference between the judicial hatch and the other hatch. In that other part there is a fundamental privacy problem. You make it impossible for us to judge that separately in our voting behaviour. That is why we shall vote as Mrs De Wit has announced. Minister, please allow me to point out, of course, that your nervousness is due to the fact that you have been sitting in the corner for several weeks. I therefore understand that this creates some activism for you. However, the rule that the attack is the best defence does not always apply. Our position in the draft law is flawless and calm. You may react very excitedly, but I think that betrays other things than the content of what is before you today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u34	Minister, you will have a long time to respond to stakeholders. I'm inviting Mr. Van Hecke to finish his speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u35	I'm trying to finish my intervention. I want to respond to what was said and support what the Minister said about believing in quick freeze and future freeze, very important instruments. If someone disappears and the disappearance is noted three weeks later, and one does a quick freeze, then one can keep the data from that moment on. However, one does not have the data from three weeks before when the disappearance occurred, or from four weeks before when there might have been contacts between certain people, who could be crucial. If one can use the quick freeze, so much better. In some cases, however, one has to go further in time to resolve it. I just want to say that it is sometimes necessary. Mr De Roover, I also disagree that Mrs De Sutter is sitting here only for aspects that have nothing to do with criminal law. If you have read the new Article 26 of the telecoms Act, a competence of Mrs De Sutter: "These data are kept for the sake of safeguarding national security, the fight against serious crime, the prevention of serious threats..." They are both competent. There must be a legal basis in different legislation to deal with serious crime. It is a technical element, but the fight against crime is also covered by telecom legislation. I will conclude with something I agree with. I have made that point for a long time. If we could start with a white paper, without legislation on data retention in the past, without judgments of the Constitutional Court and of European courts, we might indeed, as legislators, say that we should be very strict on access. Who is allowed to use data and get permission for it? I am now swearing in the European church, but I think this is much more crucial in terms of protecting privacy than a debate on whether or not we should keep certain data, because if we do not have them, we cannot use them. The fact that people are strict about use and who can have access to that data when is the essence of the debate. The European Court of Justice does not give us that space. Not yet. Maybe this will be a future discussion, something I hope. I want to close here, because I want to stick to the main points. For this reason, however difficult it may be, we all want to vote in favour together with our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u36	Madam Chair, Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as I said in committee, this is obviously not an easy bill, because it involves conflicting interests, and its balance is essential to preserve not only our public but also our individual freedoms. Of course, my group will support this bill, because it is undeniable that our police services need better tools to fight big crime, terrorism, paedophile networks and drug traffickers and the extreme violence they can show. In other words, the use of telecommunication data is legitimate in the fight against serious crime, certainly because this crime is also developing – and above all – thanks to these same technologies. In this regard, however, it is important to recall that the use of metadata is not a substitute for, and will never replace, field work. For my group, new technologies are opportunities for efficiency but not opportunities for economy. This means that this bill will not address the lack of capacity of the federal police, nor of justice as a whole. We need men and women to stop the authors and to control the reality behind the screens. Beyond providing this data for our services, let us not pretend that the project is clear. It is neither clear nor obvious in terms of the protection of the privacy of our citizens, and it is very likely that the original mechanism provided for by the project, i.e. to define zones of surveillance more or less wide according to a suspected crime rate, will be subject to the assessment of the highest judicial bodies of our Belgian democracy, but also European. If we understand, of course, that not all Belgian data will be systematically analysed, the mere fact that they can be collected forces us to be vigilant. The vast majority of Belgians have nothing to blame for and must not constantly be held accountable to the State for its movements and appeals. Otherwise, we risk imposing a moral and societal conformism that does not say its name. However, progress always comes from those who question what seems to be established. We need it, both individually and collectively. Colleagues, I won't be much longer. Balance is complex, but this complexity may be necessary to ensure that measures are targeted and proportionate. The future will tell us whether this third law is the right one. The future will tell us whether we have gone too far or whether we have provided enough guarantees to preserve everyone's freedoms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, it is already 2:05 p.m. and the debate is far from over. I therefore propose that you hear from the Minister of the Public Service and Public Enterprises, Ms. De Sutter, before moving on to current issues. We will return, then, to the consideration of this bill with the response of the Minister of Justice, Mr. Van Quickenborne. Members wishing to reply will then be given the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u38	Madam President, it is a very interesting debate, reflecting the delicate balance between privacy and security. We have been able to debate it several times in committee. Many of the more detailed comments that have been made here have been discussed in committee. So we should not go into that in detail again. It is, of course, about the appreciation of one and the other about where the balance is right. The most recent discussion has shown very well what discussion this can lead to. After all, a glass of water is half full or half empty. It's up to everyone to appreciate what it is now. We believe that the present draft responds to the criticisms that have been made, and we believe that the draft will stand. Do we have a glass ball to see that? Of course we do not have them, but we have tried on many points to find answers to the destruction that was there and also to the opinions that we have received. We have not found an answer to everything, but we have found an answer to everything that could reasonably contribute to that balance. I also took what was technically feasible from my telecoms competence. So it's a very complex puzzle and a very difficult exercise. We are convinced that we have come to something that can work, which makes sense for the court to do its work, which will stand and which is also feasible for the operators. So you understand it was a difficult exercise. However, I will try to respond to a number of additional elements, because the point of access was very clearly mentioned in the most recent discussion. Mr Van Hecke also mentioned this. It is true that this still needs to be regulated when it comes to which authorities will be able to use the data. Article 127, 1°, makes it very clear how that will happen. However, we still need a number of organic provisions and a legal basis, which will have to be added each time to the relevant provisions. That must and will be done correctly. Of course, there will still be opportunities to make things work in a good way. This draft is not a free pass or a free pass to give access to authorities other than the judicial authorities, so that they could do all kinds of things we do not want to do. That's not right. This provides the framework, Article 127, 1°, must of course be respected, but the formal legislative standard is still necessary and will have to be worked out. I think that is sufficient guarantees in this design. A number of very detailed comments have been made and we have also discussed them in committee. So I will not go back to that. Mr Boukili, you spoke of Signal and in particular the fact that we could not answer. You know that, at the last meeting, an amendment was justly introduced to clarify that the operator must keep the data in the context of fraud, according to Article 122(4) of the Telecoms Act, only if it processes or generates the data. Whether or not Signal processes or retains data is an issue of law enforcement that will be important at the time we conduct controls. I already told you in committee. Tomorrow there will be a new operator, new systems and it will be necessary to look at whether the new applications and platforms comply with the law. You made us understand that we should have talked to Signal before and made the law after. That's not how it goes. Yes, we will talk about this with Signal when it is dealt with. I am not going to go back to the fact that the Court has not ruled on the aspect of fraud. Several such comments were made. We do not agree on this, and we have said so repeatedly in committee. I also want to answer you about the figures you gave on Austria because I think you are making a scientific mistake. Indeed, you said that the law had been abolished there, which then led to the resolution of more crimes. You mentioned the figures of 40 to 50%. You imply a causality that you cannot prove. There may be a lot of other reasons why this rate has increased. This in no way proves a link with the abolition of the law in Austria. I still wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u39	Minister, you're saying I'm drawing false conclusions. I simply shared the study of the European Union Research Service, whose conclusions I did not draw up. If you dispute them, complain to this Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u40	I said that exposing these figures did not prove causal. I haven't accused anyone. With regard to professional secrecy, it must be protected when providing data to the authorities. This is a matter that must be addressed in the Code of Criminal Investigation and not in this bill. Mr Freilich, we have had a lot of discussions in committee. I will not go into all these points again. We've already done that. You started by saying that the perspective has not changed and that we really need a new perspective. I believe that the perspective has certainly changed. We now really have a targeted conservation on a geographical basis. That's a completely different approach. You contest it, but it clearly brings with it a different perspective. I have already replied on access and the Court's ruling. Finally, I am delighted that Mr. Van Hecke said the following. The criminal law aspects and the importance of justice are also enshrined in the telecoms law, and that is why we are both present. Madam President, I conclude here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u41	As far as that perspective is concerned, I have merely quoted the GBA. You say there's no perspective, I was just quoting the GBA.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u42	We are all aware that we are interrupting in the middle of the debate. We will hear the response of the Minister of Justice after the question-and-answer session, before the reply takes place. Then we will continue the work. The president will arrive in ten seconds – the Prime Minister is already here – to orchestrate further work. She's on her way, I hear. Prime Minister, if you are ready, I propose to start Question Time so that you do not waste time. (...): Madam President, should the Minister of Finance not be present?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u43	Yes, it is! The Minister of Finance has to arrive. If he is not there, that is a problem, because I cannot replace the Minister of Finance until proof to the contrary! That's exactly who's coming into the Chamber!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u44	Prime Minister, Minister, people are struggling in this country. Their costs increase and they don't have enough left after they've paid their taxes. People who work in this country must contribute too much because some, thanks to all kinds of tax loopholes, contribute too little and that has to change. Not a week goes by or anyone on the right says that work in this country is too expensive. I agree with that, colleagues. For a long time now, taxes on labour have to be reduced. This is, moreover, the best measure to strengthen purchasing power. However, how serious should we still take the chairman of the MR if he thinks that the tax benefits for top footballers are more important than the income of ordinary people, if he thinks that he should stop at the moment when a decision on a reduction in taxes on labour has never been so urgent. Bouchez doesn't want to change anything. There is an advance in this government to break that standstill and to ensure that people can move back forward. The right has been given a chance to settle that, but the previous government under the leadership of the MR and the N-VA has failed to do so. Prime Minister, Minister Van Peteghem, you have the chance to do things differently and you will have the full support of Vooruit to finally decide what is needed after years of standstill, namely reducing taxes on labour. Minister Van Peteghem, your assignment is very clear to us. We expect you to make a concrete and fair proposal that will ensure that people are left with more money and pay less taxes, a proposal that will ensure that everyone contributes their share, including the large assets. That is the best way to strengthen purchasing power in this country. My question to you, Minister Van Peteghem, is very simple. Can we expect your proposal on the government table by 21 July?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u45	Mr Vandenbroucke, congratulations! You have respected your speaking time of two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u46	Prime Minister, Minister, our tax system has been opaque, unfair and ineffective for 40 years. Let's be honest, we all know that! It is opaque because it combines extremely high rates with an unlikely number of tax niches. It is unfair because, because of this complexity, it is the best fiscally advised who do best and not all sources of income are taxed in the same way. Finally, it is ineffective, because many people do not pay the tax that should be due and it is necessary to generate an implausible administrative machine to run behind the fraudsters. In short, we must act! You are given an opportunity, since you have received a report that you had ordered, in which experts propose three possible solutions: drastically reducing the burden on work, placing more emphasis on all types of income – including wealth – and removing many tax niches. Let us be frank, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who has a little interest in tax justice knows that this is exactly what we have had to do for years. Maybe you have a chance to get to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u47	Therefore, my question is very simple: will you, the government, have the courage to go in the direction of this balance and these measures? Will you have the courage to follow the recommendations of the experts or will you step back – once again, and even, I would say, once again – from the obstacle? Will you let yourself be torpedoed by one or the other party president who will kill in the egg, again, one of your reforms?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u48	Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, every person who has ever been Minister of Finance has this week brought up his supporter's heart. After a great deal of preparation with a certain scepticism, because a finance minister usually knows his country better than the other ministers, you have brought your experts to submit their report. Again, as a former Minister of Finance, I say that this report confirms everything we have known for a long time, but it does so in a way that is moderate and bold of content. We have to do it. Prime Minister, your Deputy Prime Minister deserves congratulations. But you're dreaming of a real tax shift. I'm underlining: real tax shift. You dream of great simplification and great transparency. If I were to defend my party here fanatically, which I never do, I would say that the dual income tax is included in this proposal: a lower rate for certain capital revenues and an even lower rate for other capital revenues, which, together with other sources of income, cause a shift in the burden on labour. Prime Minister, you have also received an expert report on purchasing power. I'm sure you're surprised, but we think there's certain patronizing things in there. Soon it will be said that when we leave Parliament we have to drive 15 kilometres per hour. My question is: how will you conduct the process of dealing with these expert reports in the short term? After all, we expect a great deal from the preparation of the fiscal reform and the (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u49	Apparently, the former ministers are entitled to ten seconds of additional speaking time... Mr. Minister of Finance, you have therefore received a new report on tax reform, one more to put on your pile. The president of MR, Mr Boucher, described the report as a "TPB Treaty". And what is in the PTB programme, ladies and gentlemen? There is the idea that our country should stop being a tax haven for multinationals and big fortunes, and a tax hell for workers. That is what our country should be! But that is not what I am reading here in this report, Minister! What do I see in this report? Let's take Belgium's biggest salary, that of AB Inbev's CEO. EUR 8 million per year. According to this report, this person will pay less taxes in the future, not more taxes but less taxes! Let's take VAT. It is well known that VAT is a problem for the whole population, especially with regard to energy. What does this report propose? Exclude some products from the reduced rate of VAT, and even increase this reduced rate from 6 to 10%! Can you imagine what's in this report? On the taxation of multinationals, nothing, zero! You say "it's not our job." Taxing big fortunes? According to the report, no, it is necessary to tax the income of the fortune, not the fortune. And this, while all the great economists such as Thomas Piketty say that the big gap, inequality, lies mainly at the level of fortunes and not at the level of income. My questions are simple: are you really going to reduce the tax for a CEO who earns eight million euros? Are you really going to raise the VAT rates as suggested in this report? And are you finally going to introduce a tax on big fortunes, as five of the seven parties of the Vivaldi had proposed on May 1st?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin with a quote from today's newspaper: "We must acknowledge that the current tax system is complex and unjust. The Delanote report is a very good starting point for political discussions." This quote is from Philippe Nys, president of Jong Vld. I am pleased that there are political groups who, like Ecolo-Green, find the report of experts valuable, important and a solid basis for the political debate. However, I have the impression that some political groups are plunging out the garbage cans. Both the Delanote report and the expert group's report on purchasing power are classified vertically. That's not how they treat experts, is it? Where will we eventually find people who are crazy enough to want to write a report for the government? Yesterday I attended a debate with a number of esteemed colleagues where Professor Marc De Vos gave an account of things he is suing. One of those things was the way politicians in Belgium deal with expertise. According to the professor, expertise is only used when it suits the politicians. I cannot get rid of the impression that the events of the past few days confirm that determination. The aim of politics is to make decisions about the organisation of society. That's our job. We must be sufficiently informed and then hold a strong debate before taking a decision. By ignoring or selective use of information, the debate is impoverished and decisions are less solid. What is much worse, moreover, is the refusal to engage in the debate if the expertise does not fit in with the stand. Politics without debate is not politics, but sabotage. Prime Minister, do you agree with Jong Vld that expert reports are valuable and that it is our duty to (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u51	Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, I followed the symposium with great interest and attention on Tuesday. I also read what the Open Vld writes and can only say that the work of Professor Delanote and all the experts involved deserves appreciation. It outlines the outlines of a possible fiscal reform, but does not contain any detailed proposals. Let us be honest, the 140-page report is neither a Bible nor a pamphlet. The further development is rightly left to politics. As a reform party and a party that takes responsibility, the Open Vld is open to that debate. We also believe that the tax system should be thoroughly reformed. The vision paper therefore deserves a proper substantive debate and more than Twitter quotes. Its work will be carried out over different legislative periods. The final proposals require broad support, and it is good that we are now preparing for work. I'll be very clear. For the Open Vld, the primary objective of fiscal reform must be to reduce the burden on all those who work and have worked. It must also encourage businesses and entrepreneurs to maintain our prosperity through a healthy economy. In short, a reduction in charges and no increase in charges. That is why we must also work to reduce public property. Tax reform cannot be separated from a debate on core tasks and a more efficient government. Taxation must therefore become less complex and more transparent. What steps will you take to prepare for fiscal reform and what role do you see in this for Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u52	Prime Minister, you apparently organized a barbecue this weekend to which all members of the government were invited. You met on Saturday, Sunday and even Monday. What have you decided? You've decided not to make a decision. At least that's what I learned when I read the press. According to the Commission, no new measures in favour of purchasing power will be taken by autumn. Prime Minister, it is not possible to make such a statement when people do not get away with it. A few days ago, I received a phone call from Filippo, who, like me, is from Charleroi. He works in Namur's industrial zoning and is scheduled to be at the plant at 5:30 a.m. So he has no choice but to take his car. Every week, he has to spend 100 euros in gas. But that's not all! Every month, he receives Electrabel's bill. He also has to do his shopping. In time, with 100 euros, he was able to fill his caddy, which is no longer the case today, even while shopping at Lidl. You will understand, Prime Minister, that this situation is untenable. You keep people waiting from month to month. But when it comes to military expenditure, it is decided, in three days, in Madrid, to increase the budget. You say you have to listen to the experts' opinions. I'm telling you to listen to people's opinions. There were 80,000 of them in the streets of Brussels. They too are experts in purchasing power. Listen to the opinions of people who live on 1,700 or 1,800 euros a month and are at the end! Listen to people's opinions when they say that prices should be blocked, not wages! They cannot afford to wait until the end of the year! Prime Minister, do you confirm that no new measures in favour of purchasing power will be taken until October or do you intend to reunite your interlocutors around a table? Go, at last, break the taboo and go get the money where there are, that is, in the pockets (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u53	Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, the sequence of these last days is, once again, terrible and it is doubly so. She's terrible for people first. How do you think that many citizens, who have major difficulties in closing the month, will understand that your government decides to postpone discussions on purchasing power until the start of the month, after the government's holidays? It's indecent! Yet, your majority has made them believe a lot of things, that it was urgent, that it was indispensable, for months. Where is the wage increase pocket promised to the heart by many parties of your government? The sequence of these last days, if it is terrible for the citizens, is equally so for the credibility of your government. It's no longer government paralysis, it's telescoping in good form. Of course, we can think of what we want from the expert report on tax reform. It contains interesting things and more problematic points. But how to qualify those who, in your majority, have flinged this report in sight by denigrating in passing the experts who have invested in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u54	"Reacting as Bouchez is no way to do politics." It is not I who say it; it is the Jong VLDs and I agree perfectly with them. Prime Minister, you've already tried all the methods, including the barbecue method. No result! It's chaos. If it were in the private sector, it would result in dismissals. Is it too much to ask for seriousness, to be more effective on the part of your government? Yes or no, will you make a commitment to have strong and concrete decisions for citizens, to raise pocket wages and for employment before July 21, 2022?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u55	Prime Minister, Minister, on Tuesday I attended the government study day on fiscal reform. This day of study was indicative of our country, our tax system and this government. That day of study went on in a devious hall of the Government of the Buildings, symbolic of the structure of this country and our tax system, which is old, musty and decrepit. In addition, the audio system regularly failed, with whistles and cracks, which in turn symbolizes the noise on the line within your government. The experts' vision paper had not yet been presented, or it was already thrown directly into the garbage can from your government via Twitter. That wasn't wrong. On the day of study, they also philosophized green ideas such as carbon taxes, extra plastic taxes, increased flight taxes and even meat taxes. It wasn't much of a sight. That's how it goes with all the files in your government. The experts' advice on purchasing power was immediately put in the refrigerator on Monday. The long-announced fat summer agreement has now been reduced to a lean summer agenda. Although next week it will be radiant summer weather again, the atmosphere within your coalition remains icy cold. That's why I'd like to ask you a few questions about getting the fire back on your coalition. Mr De Croo, when will the accelerated indexation of the tax brackets proposed by the experts follow? On the Flemish side there is clearly a majority in favour of this. Mr Van Peteghem, when can we finally expect your blueprint? What is the added value of CD&V in this government if you do not go beyond organizing an ordinary study day? Where is the reduction in pump taxes which you have promised here in Parliament to the European minimum, as the German Government has done?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can understand that when one no longer sees oneself, one can no longer, is distraught, or when there is an argument in the henhouse, one calls on the outside world and experts. However, it becomes very sad when the experts also make a pot of it with speed limits of up to 100 km/h, measures of 50 years old and carless Sundays. Maybe they can ask SNCB to slow down the trains to save electricity. And it gets even sadder when the experts go into the clinch with each other. When I read that one expert wants to abolish the eco- and meal cheques and the other wants to introduce an energy check, I don't understand it anymore. Nor do I understand why you come here one week to announce that you will reduce the burden on labour and do something else the other week. What have you done in the last week with the burden on labour? You raised them. You have declined to index the tax scales accordingly. This will cost the good working citizen EUR 1.5 billion extra. We haven't heard anything else in the last few weeks. We are hearing about pensions and delays in relation to the extension of the life of nuclear power plants, purchasing power and fiscal reform. Party presidents are in each other's hair. Your party chairman, Mr Lachaert, has a catalogue in which money can be sought. Mr Bouchez even finds it offensive what you are doing: "Ce que vous faces est inultant!'. I have just one question, Ministers. When will you stop cackling and finally lay eggs?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u57	Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister Delanote, who has been much discussed, has released his general vision note on broader tax reform. She was very much expected and she aroused a lot of reactions. This is not a key reform on the door. It's about discussing it. It is a preparatory study in a process that can be imagined very long. Moreover, the very great reform of 1962 required 15 years of discussion. Courage! I would like to draw your attention to two points. First of all, the very strong reactions show that the population no longer wants additional taxes. She wants a tax down. Moreover, this note refers to this need and the tax reduction associated with it, as a matter of priority. Secondly, the timing of the reform is obviously in the long term, but there is an acute crisis of purchasing power at the moment. At the heart of this debate is the proposal, among others, to raise the tax-exempt quota from EUR 9 000 to EUR 12 000, i.e. at the level of social integration income. It is a measure, in our view, quite appropriate to respond to the urgency and demand of our citizens. My questions are as follows. Although there are few figures in this note, I hope, Mr. Minister of Finance, that you have asked for figures for all the measures. I would also like to know when you plan to table a reform proposal on the government table. Finally, do you intend to initiate a major debate in Parliament on the proposed tax reform, preferably before the final vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u58	Thank you, Mrs Marghem, including for the conciseness of your remarks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u59	Prime Minister, Minister, last week you both received an expert note from your experts and his experts. I think you had prior knowledge of the meat tax suggestion. That is why you quickly organised a barbecue to avoid at least that additional burden. We have learned not so much from the content of the two reports. What we have seen is that the government has stumbled on it twice already. There is no need for experts to do so. It also means that your vivaldi government has given up the ambition of a summer agreement, in short quattro stagione senza l'estate, the four seasons without summer. Vivaldi launches the tre stagione. We can read our opinions and other opinions in newspapers, but I am particularly interested in the opinion of the government. I would like to ask a question that no one here has asked, not even the experts. How hungry is the government? How much of our gross domestic product does the government want to attract to take all kinds of initiatives? If we have an answer to that, the discussion about who pays the taxes will be much easier. After all, what is proposed as tax changes and debt-to-GDP reforms usually amounts to a net tax increase. What is the extent of your government's hunger? What is the percentage in which you want that discussion to end? That is the first question. Only then can the question of how the distribution should be done be asked. It would reassure many citizens if you answered that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u60	Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, on Tuesday, we attended the presentation of this new report on tax reform. This report was very detailed, very long, with many appendices. We fully share the findings of this report. The tax system is now too complex in Belgium. It is unfair and unreadable to all our fellow citizens. With regard to the many solutions and proposals, we do not agree with everything, but the main axes are positive. Firstly, taxes on labour are being reduced, especially for low and medium wage earners. Let's do it, let's not wait. Second, there would be a greater contribution of heritage revenues. Of course! It's tax justice. All European reports tell us that we must be able to act at this level. Finally, there would be environmental taxation. Today, there are too many complex mechanisms in Belgium that make fossil fuels subsidize. We must gradually get out of it. I read here and there that some people just wanted to throw this report in the trash. These people make a serious mistake. First, it pulls the political debate down. Second, more fundamentally, it continues to protect the benefits of some to the detriment of the general interest. For us ecologists, this is unacceptable. Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, when will you propose to the government and Parliament a tax reform project based on these studies?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u61	The Prime Minister has the floor for five minutes, and the Deputy Prime Minister has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I will answer questions about purchasing power and the report on this subject. The Minister of Finance will respond to questions related to the Tax Vision Note. This is not the first time in this Parliament that we are talking about purchasing power. [[laughter]] You laugh, but one of the reasons is that this government had already taken measures for purchasing power before the start of the Ukrainian crisis. We had already introduced the extension of the social tariff on electricity and gas during the covid period. This government did not wait until a crisis came to take action. Very early on, this government has taken measures to help people out of their difficult situation. And it is true that since this energy crisis hit us hard, we have expanded the measures. In addition to the extended social tariff, we have extended aid to reduce VAT on gas and electricity, to help citizens who are heating themselves up with oil and to reduce fuel excise duties on a massive scale. Let's be clear, this is a difficult situation. A lot of people are asking a lot of questions about today and about tomorrow. There are no clear signs today that the situation in the energy market will significantly improve in the coming months. Unfortunately, we do not have these signs today. We, as politicians, must also be honest. It is impossible to cope with the full financial impact of this crisis for everyone. It is impossible for society to fully bear what we are faced with, an energy crisis based on war, just after we have had a pandemic. Anyone who tells you the opposite is gonna turn a blind eye to people. The politicians must stop making unfeasible promises. Anyone who comes to make unfeasible promises today will not help the people. On the contrary, he makes a promise that he can't deliver after that, and that makes it worse for everyone. However, politicians must also have the openness to discuss all the proposals. I expect politicians, when the experts come up with a report, to have the openness to at least look at those proposals and give their opinion on them, to indicate what the problems are and what the good things are. Then it is our job, as politicians, to translate the work of those experts into something that we consider to be a valuable policy. That is what one can expect from a government like this, a government that conducts a centre policy. A centre policy means that everyone's concerns are taken into account. Doing this in the right way means using those reports, using that expertise. That's what I expect from everyone who's a member of my government. That is also what this government has done in recent months. The report we have received concerns two aspects. First, there is an analysis of the finding. It is noted, among other things, that many of the measures we have taken are very effective. The analysis of the National Bank and the OECD shows that the protection offered in our country in terms of purchasing power is superior to that of many European countries. It is automatic through automatic indexing. The report also clearly indicates that certain groups could be better protected, that certain groups fall outside the targeted target groups. This is why the expert report provides a number of slopes, with which this government is working. Such an expert report is not immediately translated by the government, because it makes sense to first look at how that fits in with the policy, to ensure that we make it something coherent. That does not mean that the government has decided not to do anything in recent weeks. On the contrary, in view of the current prices, two weeks ago, we decided to state now, at the beginning of the summer, that the current measures will continue to apply in winter. We have decided that the measures will be extended until 30 September until the end of the year. In fact, experts call these measures very effective. That is why I want to make it very clear that people do not have to go into summer with concerns about winter. We will continue to help the people. At the same time, we will ensure that we have a coherent policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, last Tuesday, the vision paper on the broader fiscal reform was presented by Professor Delanote, and many of you were present. Some have taken the time to review the vision paper, others have taken a little less time. In any case, there is one thing that is clear: that affects our taxation. We all know that our taxation is out of balance. Our taxation is no longer adapted to the needs of our society or to the needs of our economy. Our taxation is still aimed at people who marry, people who have multiple children, build a detached house, own a fossil car and work for the same employer for 40 years. If you recognise that, that is not a problem, but it is no longer standard in today's reality, which means that our tax model has been overtaken. As Minister of Finance, I was given the task of preparing, during this legislature, for a major tax reform. I have assumed this mission with the utmost care and a great sense of responsibility. From the outset, I thought it was very important and it was my intention to organise a broad public debate on tomorrow's taxation by involving experts in both the legal and economic and fiscal worlds, but also by stimulating public debate. With this public debate we started here in Parliament in the Committee on Finance with an exchange of views on the direction we should follow. However, several round tables have also been organised with civil society organisations. Of course, through the organisation of the symposium on Tuesday, I have tried to bring the debate where it belongs, namely in the public world. For a few months now, many people have been asking me how this mission will be translated into practice. Given its importance and the emotions associated with the subject, I did not want to make statements that were too marked or premature. The small media storms that have always followed early leaks in the press are the best proof of this. Colleagues, we owe it to our children and grandchildren to make choices that will keep our prosperity affordable and protect and strengthen the welfare state. Our taxation plays an important role in this, as a historic cornerstone of society and of our economy. You can count on me to make those choices soon and present them to you. We deliberately choose to open the political and social debate with a clean line which, by means of wide-ranging choices, defines in broad terms the direction of our taxation of the future. Parliament will, of course, also play an important role in this social debate. I therefore sincerely hope that you will not only look at the blueprint that is coming soon, critically and with a view to the future, but, above all, that you will give the debate a fair chance. Our tax system needs far-reaching reform, and we will have to make bold choices. So we're all gonna have to come out of our trenches and focus our eyes on the future. I will, and I hope you all do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u64	Thank you for your reply, Minister. Thank you for promising a blueprint for 21 July. Our main concern is that this blueprint will not become a non-binding document, but will effectively lead to decisions. The time for studying and profiling is over. It is time to rule and make decisions together, Prime Minister. If not, this government is no better than the Swedish government, which was led by MR and N-VA. N-VA honks quite pedantic here, but hasn't gotten anything for itself. The truth is painful, Mr Loones! Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, we know what to do, and that is finally to reduce taxes on labour to increase purchasing power. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, I look forward to the other parties in this House to confessing colour.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u65	Mr. Minister of Finance, thank you for your answers. You're a careful man, since you didn't specify a deadline. In watermark, however, we can understand that the outline of the report that has been submitted to you is appropriate for you. However, you know that you are walking in the middle of a minefield. For my part, I sincerely wish you success, despite the statements of some party presidents. And I wish it for two reasons. First of all, consent to tax forms a large part of the social contract in our country. But its level is so low that it has almost reached that of the sea, as our tax system is, alas, unfair and opaque. Then, if you do not succeed - that is, you, a hyper-centre government, which could bring together the best of the right, left and center forces - I do not see who could do so in the current state of things. Therefore, I sincerely hope that you will succeed, hoping that your reform project will not join the closet where pension reform, the agreement with ENGIE and two or three other reform projects which have taken a lead in the wing and which, however, looked promising. This is all the evil I do not wish you!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u66	Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, I will only replicate what I have heard. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you mentioned coming out of the trenches. Can't I advise you to crawl into a trench? You're way too big for that. A lot has been said here today about echoes in the press. The image that suits you best is the dogs barking, the caravan passing by. Go on. I have heard Mr De Roover say that tax reforms are always tax increases. I take it this was just not the case for the tax reform of the previous government? Much more important is that all the tax reforms I have seen since 1989 have been tax cuts. Ten slott (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u67	Mr. Minister of Finance, your answer impressed me. Talking so long to say nothing is really impressive! Since October 2020, you have spoken every week about your great tax reform, but we have never heard of any tax measure in the context of this great reform. Neither today! But what is the reality? Today, the great fortunes of our country are: - the Wittouck family: EUR 10.8 billion in capital: zero-euro tax; - the Van Damme family, EUR 10.5 billion: tax, EUR zero; - the Brother family, 6.9 billion euros: zero-euro tax; - Spoelberch's family, €6.8 billion: zero-euro tax. That is the reality of our tax system! On the other hand, when you come with a bill like you did last week, you tax unemployed people who receive €1,340 a month. That is your vision, your effective tax policy, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u68	The information phase for fiscal reform is over. All the reports were presented this week. It is a final piece of a very thorough and comprehensive information round. It's time for the next step. Professor Delanote says today that he hopes there will soon be a light on the politicians. I hope so with him. I sincerely call on everyone to open their minds to the debate and certainly not to refuse the debate. It is our political duty not to make a caricature of ourselves. Mrs Marghem, such a reform does not take years. Mr Van Peteghem can reform quickly. A highly esteemed party mate of mine once launched the slogan 'First blabla, then boom boom'. The time for blabla is over, it's time for boom boom.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u69	Prime Minister, Mr Vice Prime Minister, in the Open Vld you will find a supporter of a thorough fiscal reform that reduces the burden on all those who do their best in this country, who want to move forward and which reduces the public debt in order to create a slender and efficient state for the benefit of the citizens. This vision paper deserves better than lame jokes, deserves better than ideological profiling that can only undermine the quality of this coalition agreement. This vision note is also not a grabbelton for cherry picking during budget checks. This is the start of a wide-ranging social debate for which the Minister of Finance will provide a blueprint or an orange print. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u70	Prime Minister, you told me that the situation would be difficult. I agree with you. The situation will be difficult, but for whom? For the working class, not for ENGIE, not for Total. You know when I get out of here, out of this felted light, where the carpet is 4cm thick, I'm going home to Charleroi. Friends, former workers of Caterpillar, phone me and always tell me: "But what are you doing in Brussels? What the hell are you doing? Tell them we're having trouble! Let them understand, Roberto, that we are having difficulties!" And that's what I'm trying to tell you. Last week, your party president said winter will be harsh. Well, I'm going to give you a scoop, Mr. First, I'm telling you that autumn will be hot and it will be very hot, because the working class can no longer support your political measures!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u71	Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, 15 days ago, the left of your government was speaking here in the gallery demanding a kern within three days, with strong purchasing power measures. There was a kern, who decided to increase the fuel check from 200 to 225 euros. Be serious! After untenable promises made by your government's parties, Prime Minister, you are giving us a lesson in the rostrum, while from postponement to postponement, the situation is not changing. All the parties in your government say, mouth in heart, want to reduce taxes on labour and increase wages pocket. Then do it! Do it and stop postponing, as you do all the time! Whether you go on vacation, whether your government goes on vacation without a decision for the citizens would be totally indecent!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u72	Minister Van Peteghem, I wouldn't come out of your trench if the bombs and grenades were flying around your ears, because with this government it's always more of the same. Necessary purchasing power measures are being delayed and postponed and expensive new taxes are being developed and implemented. The consequences for the hard-working Flemings of this government with also blue, green and red parties are clear. We will continue to pay our blue taxes, we will continue to annoy ourselves with new ecological pestilence measures, and we will continue to turn our red on the incessant influx of mass migration. In the meantime, it is clear to everyone that the solutions to the new challenges and our purchasing power will not come from the old parties in this government. It is high time that this colourful coalition replaced real change so that a policy could be pursued for our own people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u73	Prime Minister, your party has been in power for 22 years. Mr Vice Prime Minister, your party has been in power almost continuously since the Second World War. We're world champions of government garbage at 54 percent. We are second in the European Labour Tax Championship, with 40%. We're just after Italy. The tax burden on capital, Mr Socialists, is also 40% in this country. We'll get there right after France. This pressure is therefore as high as the burden on labour. You are right, Mr Vice-Prime Minister, that this coffin needs to be mucked out, or rather that it needs to be mucked out, so that you can also lay your eggs. However, this can only be done in one way, in particular by reducing the burden and not just by shifting the burden. There is only one solution for purchasing power. We'll take Vivaldi's conductor stick and send the orchestra home.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u74	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. Probably in the broad debate that you are interested in, Minister of Finance, we will have more answers. I would like to say to Mr Vanbesien that I am not asking the government to hasten slowly and to do as in 1962, that is to say to carry out a reflection which would last 15 years and at the end of which we would not see, either in this legislative term or in the subsequent years, substantive tax reform. We need to do a tax reform and, in our view, it must support all those who produce added value in this country: the self-employed, the traders, the small and large enterprises, Mr Van Hees. That's what we're proposing. In this debate, there may be reactions; they are healthy and they must be heard. We in the MR have proposals to make. We will often repeat them in committee when you come to present your proposals, I hope as soon as possible, because the purchasing power of our fellow citizens is not waiting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u75	Madam President, if you had given one minute to the ministers and ten minutes to Mr Geens, much more would have been said here. After all, we have heard nothing here. Prime Minister, you say you have a center government, but you are mistaken, you have a team that does not come out of the middle circle. That's a big difference. That's why you don't answer the questions. After all, every answer leads to trouble and misery, not with the opposition but within the majority. You're still standing in the middle circle. I shall therefore make a suggestion. It's not a suggestion I invent myself, it's one of your experts. I've asked you to cancel the taxes. You didn't answer that, but you're raising them. Would you please index your tax scales? You do not need a tax reform for that, but the Flemish middle class can finally get an increase in purchasing power. Do you know what you'll do? You'll do as the colleague asked. Time to rule!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u76	Mr. Minister of Finance, I'm going to confide in you. I find that, since the beginning of the legislature, you have carried out this difficult and detailed work on this tax reform seriously. But we are also demanding and, to give you a second confidence, I think the time for the necessary debates, consultations and reports has passed. We are now at the time of political action! And my group, as an ambitious partner, really wants to land on a tax reform by the end of 2022. We're ready!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u77	Mr Prime Minister, we cannot talk about draft laws which are under discussion, and I will not, but there are discussions of draft laws that I would like to ask you about. After all, I have not had a chance to meet you in committee last week, even though there were texts on which you are involved. Anyway, things have happened that have been noticed around the world. Human rights organisations, former judges of European and international courts, academics, former ministers of various European and Western European countries and even the State Department, which is unusual, mention our country in the context of breaking the international fight against terrorism. I don't think that's happened many times. That's pretty exceptional. So it's not true that your government never makes the world news. You made the world news last week. There's been reputational damage to our country. I am not talking about an ongoing bill, because that is not allowed, but I would like to know what you will do to alleviate the reputational damage a little bit, although I think you will have to come spectacularly from the corner to give a clear answer to this. However, I am very curious and happy to be able to question you on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u78	Mr De Roover, our country has no lessons to learn from anyone when it comes to the detection, accusation, conviction and imprisonment of terrorists, even if they are diplomats. You say you don't want to talk about the subject, but you do. Then let's talk about the subject. What we have here is indeed a treaty that should lead to a stronger negotiating position for our country. Professor of International Law Jan Wouters says: "There is no problem with this treaty." I'm not saying that. It's an international expert who says so. You know, Mr De Roover, we do this in all transparency, because we live in a state of law. This means that you can ask me questions about this very openly and that I answer to all of you here in all transparency. I have no problem explaining that. You know, Israel is negotiating with Hamas to get prisoners out. The United Kingdom and the United States are negotiating with Iran to release prisoners. Mr De Roover, I have heard a lot of you over the last two days. However, you have always avoided a question. What is your message to Mr Vandecasteele? What's your message to his family? What is your solution for Belgians who are innocently in prison abroad? What's your solution? This also has to do with the reputation of our country, and this is the message I give to fellow countrymen who are in trouble abroad: we will not leave them in trouble!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u79	Prime Minister, I will tell the Belgians who are in prison abroad, firstly, that unlike other countries, your government will not be able to do anything for them unless you conclude an unseen treaty in Europe, which will make our country blackmailable and release you convicted terrorists, not with a six-month penalty reduction, but with a penalty reduction of 16 years. Prime Minister, people are equipped with bombs to detonate them in a room the size of the Sports Palace, which is what the person has misunderstood, for which you are making a treaty, allowing him to leave so that he can enjoy grace in Tehran. That's your policy. This means that you solve your inability to do anything about Belgian prisoners abroad, using a technique that ensures that countries like Iran will be rewarded when they take Belgian prisoners. That's the failure of your policy. When you ask America not to interfere with our affairs on international terrorism, I tell you: you are on the wrong side of history.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u80	Madam President, Minister, the index is under pressure. We've been warning about it for months, but there was another attack this morning. At the moment when the workers go out on the streets with a cry for help, employers ask for the index to be hollowed out again. This time they do not ask for an index jump, but a delay. But we know what happens when that delay comes, when the index does not follow inflation fast enough. Families are already in trouble because their wages are not rising as fast as prices. What is the solution of the employers? They say: slow down again, postpone the index adjustment a little bit. Up to two years, even, they want to postpone it. When the companies made record profits, that money was given to investors and shareholders. But now that prices are rising, the companies don't give at home. That money doesn't go magically, that money goes back to the companies. Minister, the index is not affected by socialists in the government! We are, of course, doing more for purchasing power. We reduce taxes on energy for companies and families. We support the low and middle incomes with a working bonus and with the abolition of the crisis tax. It might take more than that. We also have a proposal that will dampen prices for basic products when they rise very sharply. Maybe that way we can remove the uncertainty. In any case, there can be no doubt for us. New plans don't mean we're changing the base. Maintaining the index, that's the basis! That is where the prosperity in our country is built. Minister, can you guarantee that the index will be maintained by the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u81	Madam Chair, Minister, I can't hear it anymore! I can't take it anymore! The words of the FEB boss have become terribly unbearable. Indeed, it comes back with its demand for index jumps while workers face inflation, rising energy prices, whether they wonder how to pay their bills or gasoline to go to work. Mr Timmermans, the boss of the bosses, gets the same thing over and over again: let's block the wages and organize an index jump. Minister, we're going to have to crack down and see the vicious hindrance to purchasing power. The employer talks about the cost of increasing wages, but what does he want to hide by always leaving the same thing? Many companies are issuing historical profit margins this year and paying huge dividends to their shareholders. But it displeases the FEB to plan a bit the amount of profits of companies that are obliged to redistribute a little bit of their profits to those who made them. But times have changed since Sweden! It's not the same thing anymore! It's over to dance when the boss whistles with the government where the socialists are in power! The FEB did well when Sweden blew up the indexation of wages! I would remind you that this cost a worker 40 000 euros over his entire career. The FEB did celebrate when the Michel government amended the 1996 law and blocked wages. Now she's indignant. Your dis stop! Minister, I ask you here, solemnly, to reaffirm before this House that there will be no index jump, that the words of the FEB are scandalous and that they must stop! [[Tumult]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u82	Mr Minister, you have four minutes to answer, if calm returns to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u83	Mrs Lacroix, I thank you for your questions and for the rest of the situation, Mr Lacroix, with all the talent and the voice we know you and, above all, all your strength of conviction. Allow me to reiterate my position on this fundamental question: we will not touch on automatic wage indexation! We will not touch the automatic indexation of wages! This is my position, but it is also the one that was called back in plenary a few weeks ago by our Prime Minister, who was supported by the parties of this majority. But, of course, I am aware of the difficulties faced by companies. A large number of companies are suffering from the war in Ukraine. Companies face unprecedented increases in certain raw materials and energy costs. Some also suffer from labour shortages. The indexing of wages is an effective additional cost for companies. I have an eye for that. But I have also seen all the measures that this government has been providing to the business world and to the business world for two years. It had to be done, and I was the first to defend them. I have seen, like you, Mr Lacroix, that these measures have been effective and that the profit margins of companies in 2021 have reached peaks: 6% more on average than in the last 20 years. High heights and never reached! The same applies to dividends paid to shareholders. But I will continue to defend measures to support companies that need them, of course! I will continue within this government to defend targeted measures to support our economic fabric, support the world of work and ensure the maintenance of employment in our country. I will continue to do so where necessary and when necessary. But I also do not support the fact that a certain employers' organization - not all of them - which you mentioned, the FEB, is systematically returning with this old annoyance of ending the automatic indexation of wages. I do not support it, which, moreover, comes from an organisation which represents companies for which indexation has not yet been carried out, since it will not intervene for many of them until 1 January 2023. I can't stand that! Let us tackle the real causes! To the real causes, the real difficulties in our country, and especially the high energy prices. Let us address this, the causes rather than the symptoms! This is how we will provide a real response to our businesses and workers, but never by impoverishing these workers! As you said, workers who get up in the morning, and who for some or for some, put money in their pocket, pay to go to work! Workers who face an explosion of prices, unprecedented inflation, and who it looks like tomorrow will be the double penalty: inflation and the abolition of automatic wage indexation? For me, that's no, of course! I am Minister of Economy, Minister of Labour, but also Minister of Social Concertation. In this respect, it is important for me to bring together the social partners and try to find solutions together. I didn't wait for the FEB's call to do it. Together with the President of the Central Economic Council, with the President of the National Labour Council, I have organised contacts with the social partners to try to find concrete, measured and just solutions to the problems we face today. I think that is the model that we must defend. It is on this model that our country has built itself; it is on this social model that the great achievements have been gained; it is on the basis of this model that we will continue to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u84	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for confirming automatic indexation. The story of the VBO is always the same. The prices are going up, but the profits have been distributed for a long time. It is a crisis, but the government must not spend money, except in the case of aid packages for entrepreneurs. It's always the same story and the contrast can't be bigger. We stand beside the people who feel that the month lasts longer than their wages. We choose the ordinary workmen. This crisis hurts everyone. The government may not be able to solve everything, but we have to do everything we can to protect the people. We do, and we're proud of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u85	Minister, thank you for your comments. With the socialists in power, we will not touch we will not touch, we will not touch the indexation of wages. It is pathological on the part of the FEB to return constantly with the same rengaine. My colleague Anja Vanrobaeys is quite right: it is the obsession with index jumping at the FEB, but more than an obsession, it is an insult, an insult to workers. But why – you talked about consultation, Minister – why is the EBF not looking for alternative solutions? We can explain to the FEB that profit margins can be moderated, that dividends can be limited to shareholders, because dividends and overprofits affect the competitiveness of our companies. The urgent need for us is to improve purchasing power. May the bosses continue to offend them, they will find us on the way again, again and again!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u86	Minister, cystic fibrosis is a very serious hereditary disease for which there is no cure. I don't know if you're measuring the daily lives of patients with cystic fibrosis. They must take daily treatments simply to avoid complications and aggravation of their disease. In August 2020, the European Medicines Agency gave the green light for Kaftrio. Belgian patients suffering from cystic fibrosis have been waiting for a refund authorization for almost two years. This is very important because this medication drastically reduces the occurrence of complications, improves the quality of life of these patients as well as their prognosis of life. This treatment is vital. Patients in almost all European countries can already benefit from the reimbursement of this medicine. Negotiations have been taking place between you and the pharmaceutical firm for some time. You promised you'd make it for the month of July. Last week's announcement is a tremendously painful thunderstorm for all patients involved. You're probably going to tell me that this treatment is expensive. I do. But if almost all European countries have come to an agreement, it is possible. This is all the more so since this treatment reduces the occurrence of complications and hospitalizations and thus avoids an additional cost in terms of public health. Minister, you have to force an agreement. This is my request today for each patient concerned (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u87	Mr. Secretary, have you ever blown up a balloon before? It's very difficult for muco patients. They are waiting for the refund of Kaftrio, a medicine that is vital to them. That medicine makes them breathe, live, enjoy, study, work. Muco patients, like any patient, are entitled to the best therapy and life expectancy. They are also entitled to a minister who negotiates with the pharmaceutical sector with respect and trust. The pharmaceutical company that produces that medicine has announced that the negotiations on reimbursement have been suspended. This has already happened in the past for other medicines for muco patients, especially for Symkevi and Orkambi. The accessibility of innovation for orphan diseases................................................................................................................................................... You know that, because I've told you many times. The attitude in the negotiations of both the firm and you and your services has a direct impact on the lives of those patients. It's about life and death, it's about a quality of life, it's about their future. Minister, what will you do? Will you reconsider the proposals I have put forward in Parliament? Will you make proposals yourself to create a framework for orphan medicines for those patients? Is there any hope for the cystic patients, are there still negotiations on Kaftrio? Will patients have access to the therapy they are entitled to, to the therapy with which children have a future and adults can live?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u88	Minister, there are about 1,400 patients in Belgium. Mucoviscidosis is a rare and severe pulmonary disease. Patients often have lung infections and hospitalization and have a low life expectancy. The last few years have been good news. There's new medication, which makes Cucco patients hope for a more normal life, for example if they have a child's wish or want to continue their studies. Last week we were informed that the negotiations on the new medicine had been stopped because the company had withdrawn. That came as a thunderbolt in the clear sky. The patients are actually being held hostage here. The medicine to improve their lives exists, but they can't afford it themselves. The PVDA study service has published a study showing that the asking price for the medicine is 190,000 euros per year, while British research has shown that the production price is only 5,300 euros per year. That's 35 times the price they're asking. What can one do as a government when the pharmaceutical industry abuses patent legislation for rare diseases? One of the options is to break patent law and apply compulsory licensing. This happens, for example, in Argentina, where the medicine is available for 5,000 euros per year. Also in England this was used to put pressure on Vertex to reduce the price. What are the prospects for the reimbursement of Kaftrio for cystic patients? Do you intend to consider compulsory licences?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u89	Dear colleagues, we are fully aware that patients and their families are very concerned about the reimbursement of the Kaftrio. I think we all share their concern. Like you, I am extremely sensitive to this question. Although I cannot share much information today, I can tell you that negotiations with society are continuing. I hope that as soon as procedures permit, a solution will be found. We do not spare our efforts in this regard. To give the current discussions the most chance of success, ladies and gentlemen, and I suppose you want it as much as I do, I can say nothing more and I will stay there. Big public statements in my head wouldn't make any progress and certainly wouldn't help patients right now. We share the concern of the patients concerned and their family and friends. They are rightly deeply concerned about Kaftrio's reimbursement. We are all concerned about this and we are also doing what we can to keep them informed of the progress of the negotiations, but unfortunately I cannot say very much at the moment. I can say that negotiations are under way with the company, and I hope that a good solution will be found as soon as the procedures allow it. They're working hard on that, too. To give the conversations a chance of success, there's nothing I can add. If I were to make great statements about these negotiations and the way we should look at them, it would not really help the cause, when we ultimately want things to move forward for patients. We are working on a good solution and I hope to be able to provide you with more information on it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u90	Minister, this system of secret negotiations obviously raises questions. You have been asked about this for months now. I have no doubt that you have made efforts, but the reality is that there is no result when patients could benefit from Kaftrio already since August 2020. For these patients, not to benefit from it is to experience more complications; every complication that occurs can lead to death. Not having access to this treatment, Minister, is a form of non-assistance to people in danger. I tell you again here, not having an agreement is not an option but, in the absence of an agreement in the next few days or weeks, I really invite you to allow these patients to benefit from treatment in the officiaries of neighbouring countries with an agreement between the agencies of the various countries. They must be able to benefit from the Kaftrio.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u91	Minister, you are hiding behind procedures when you are just the one who can change the procedures. You can ensure faster access to innovation. A few weeks ago, the parties of the Vivaldico coalition voted out of your opinion on the N-VA proposal for improved access to orphan medicinal products. That's pure party politics. Muco patients struggle every day to breathe. It is your job to help them and negotiate for them. You must examine with an open vision how you can offer innovation to the patient and how you can guarantee its future. If you do not create a sustainable framework, we will be back here in a few months or years with the same problem, without a solution, while there is a lot of blabla around.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u92	Minister, we hope that a solution for the cystic fibrosis patients will soon be found so that Kaftrio can be repaid. It is a fundamental problem that the negotiations take place in secret and that the public should not know about this. After all, the reimbursement of that medicinal product is financed by taxpayers' money. The problem of cystic fibrosis drugs is not a single issue. Secret negotiations are also taking place for cancer medicines and other medicines. The pharmaceutical companies are taking advantage of their strong negotiating position. A study has been made on compulsory licenses and the Federal Knowledge Centre for Health Care, Test Purchase and Come on against Cancer have stated that that slope should be examined. Research is often largely financed through public funds or donations. At least we have to think about a different approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u93	Madam President, Minister, the healthcare sector is suffering from a shortage of staff prior to the corona crisis. It is a sector with relatively many older workers and too few people who can replace them after their retirement. The corona crisis has only exacerbated that. The healthcare sector was under high pressure all the time and many employees fell out on the front line after debilitating months. With labour market cuts everywhere, the water is on the lips of the healthcare sector. A survey carried out by Zorgnet-Icuro shows that eight out of ten hospitals phase out activities. It concerns, for example, the closing of beds or the shrinking of the operating quarter. Treatments such as kidney dialysis will start later. The waiting times for consultations are increasing. We do not dare to think about what a new corona wave can bring about. The sector therefore urgently needs action. They are, on the one hand, intended for the long term, such as increasing the number of students, by making the profession more attractive or by reviewing the legally defined division of labour between the care providers. Icuro and Vlozo, on the other hand, also come up with measures that can have an immediate effect. I am thinking primarily of the possibility of creating flexi-jobs in the healthcare sector. You can't do that right now. The residential care centers, as well as the hospitals, urge them to change that. That would allow extra helping hands to continue to give patients and residents the care they deserve. Minister, I know that you are very keen on the care sector and that you take the issue to heart. I therefore have the following questions for you. What initiatives are you taking to address the shortage of staff in the healthcare sector? Will you allow flexi jobs in care, to fill in the most urgent needs?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u94	Madam President, Mrs De Jonge, you are absolutely right. This government has made important investments in health care, but they are not enough. That is why I want to work with the social partners in the sector and with all professional groups on a real agenda for the future of care. It's necessary. That will be thorough and long-term discussions, but indeed we must also take the initiative in the short term to tackle the existing shortage of staff. You have rightly referred to the proposals of Zorgnet-Icuro, the Flemish network of healthcare organisations. They inspire me too, and on this basis, among other things, I have submitted a package of concrete proposals to the government. Among other things, it provides for the possibility of giving pensioners a smooth access to the healthcare sector. I do think this is one of the slopes. Furthermore, I am thinking of making it easier for students to contribute to the work in the care sector, to volunteering and to support technological developments, taking care professionals' and nurses' jobs out of their hands that today makes it difficult for them to do what they have chosen to do, namely to help patients. I am also thinking of strengthening training opportunities in the short term. We must take action now, and we must not have taboos. If we have to take urgent measures, we sometimes have to do things we wouldn't do in normal times, so I call on my colleagues to adopt a package of measures now to support the healthcare sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u95	Thank you, Minister, for your reassuring reply. Having a future agenda and consulting with the sector is very important. After all, the water is on their lips. We're working on different slopes today, which is good. There is a need for structural measures, but we must also bear in mind the need for urgent action. Flexi jobs can be part of the solution. Pensioners can also be employed perfectly via flexi-jobs. We must avoid compromising the provision of care to patients and residents of rest centres and residential care centres. This is a concern that we both share and I hope for solutions in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u96	Mr Minister, I have been denouncing the catastrophic situation in Mons prison for years here, and this Thursday it is his director who is making a real alarm call. First, there is the problem of overpopulation. The figures speak for themselves: 114 prisoners are overcrowded, 38 per cent more than the expected capacity. This, of course, creates tensions. The detainees are piled up in the cells. There are tensions between the inmates and there are tensions between the inmates and the officers who, on the other hand, are understaffed, you know. I am told today that there would be 38 agents incapacitated from work. To top it all off, the building is completely rotten. There are mushrooms, rats, bugs in all the cells. In short, it can no longer last that way, minister. The staff is at a standstill and today filed a notice of strike, and the mayor of Mons is threatening to take an order to close the prison. Minister, my requests are simple. I ask for the commitment of ten additional agents for August 1st and finally I ask you to include in your masterplan, the construction of a new prison in Mons. That has been promised. There have been statements in the press by your colleague Mathieu Michel, but beyond intentions, we would like actions and that there is indeed this inscription in your masterplan.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u97	My colleague, as you know, overcrowding in our Belgian prisons has been a chronic problem for decades, and we are tackling it in the short and long term. You know that this year again, two new prisons will be put into service in our country: in Haren, (Brussels) and in Termonde. Two existing prisons will be extended: Saint-Gilles and Termonde. At the same time, we also invest in other capacities, such as the detention centres you know. Yesterday, I was still in Ninove where we were able to convince the population to open a detention house and I would like to take this opportunity to thank the mayor of Ninove. I know that you also support this concept, and I thank you for that. The renovated prison in Ittre will reopen in 2023, so next year. Then follow the prisons of Antwerp, Vress and Leopoldsburg. It is true that Secretary of State Mathieu Michel stated that he wished to integrate a new prison in Mons into the masterplan, and I fully support it. In the meantime, I think the Régie des Bâtiments is doing some work to keep Mons prison viable. As a result, the showers have recently been renovated, and at the same time we regularly transfer inmates to other places. In terms of additional staff, for the time being, 15 out of 217 staff are missing. A selection for additional staff has just been finalized and, thanks to accelerated recruitment within the government, gaps can be filled this summer. Management also explained this to staff today. I know that the situation is very difficult and I have the greatest respect for the people who work in this sector, but at the same time it also takes courage. In particular, I plead for you to ask your colleague from Colfontaine to support a prison project.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u98	Thank you, Minister. I note, therefore, that you are going to act on the increase in staff and the acceleration of recruitment. It's already a very good thing. I know your national policy on the construction of new prisons and detention centres, which we support, as you know. I also want to be able to promote this concept in my region. With regard to the Mons prison, and in particular the state of the building, I think there is no point in trying to improve the situation further: there is absolutely no need for a new prison. I invite you to come as soon as possible to visit the prison. I know you've never been there, but your visit would be a very important gesture towards the staff, who are suffering today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u99	Madam Secretary of State, you haven't missed your start. You were Secretary of State for one week and 1,500 additional reception places for asylum seekers have already arrived. It must have been Mr Francken's time to create additional shelters so quickly. For Mrs de Moor, the current 31,000 places of refuge are not enough; for Mrs de Moor it must be more. When Mrs de Moor took office, we thought that she would pursue the same policy as Mr Mahdi, which was disastrous but the same. In the first five months no less than 13,106 asylum seekers have come to our country. That's a record since the 2015 asylum crisis. However, Mrs de Moor does not have the same disastrous policy, it is more than the same disastrous policy. She wants to move to 33,000 shelters in the short term, and she wants to engage NGOs. You want to engage private initiatives. You want to re-enlist the municipalities so that social housing goes first to happiness seekers and not to our own people. Madam Secretary of State, I have three specific questions. How much will these additional shelters cost? What budget does that come from? Are the rumors that it would not come from your big gold pot, which already contains EUR 680 million, but from the defence budget? Last but not least, when does creating additional asylum places stop? The Flemish interest is of the opinion that this country's problem is not that there are too few reception places, but that country's problem is that too many asylum seekers are coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u100	Mr Van Grieken, I do not know if you often look around the world for a moment. I do that and various crises in Ukraine, Afghanistan and Syria ensure that we see an increased influx of people in need of protection today. We see this not only in Belgium, but also in the Netherlands, Germany and Austria. We also see that more and more people have already applied for asylum in another European country. Of course, that cannot be the intention. The government therefore decided yesterday on a vigorous package of measures aimed not only at creating additional reception capacity. We are also taking measures to reduce inflow and to promote outflow. To this end, we will also strengthen prevention campaigns in countries of origin and transit, and we will open a Dublin Centre, with a tailor-made approach to better implementation of the Dublin rules. People who can stand on their own feet because they work can also accelerate outflow from the shelters. That, too, will reduce the budget. In the meantime, we are indeed creating emergency capacity to offer everyone a bed. Mr van Grieken, you propose to pay high periodic penalty payments if we do not have sufficient reception. With our citizens' tax dollars, you're going to pay periodic penalty payments to people coming to our country. That's what you're proposing. It is about 1,000 euros per person per day that is not being received. Those are huge amounts. That's what you're proposing. Please stop telling people vesicles. We cannot and will not build walls around our country. What happens in the rest of the world, we feel here, too. Perhaps you could explain that when your partymates will have another coffee at Putin or Assad.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u101	Madam Secretary of State, it is said in the media that the CD&V communications service runs overtime and that you have experience in the Rue de la Loi. That is not really clear from your answer. No way that the Flemish Interest would want to pay periodic penalty payments. Even worse, you're hanging up the story here that mass migration doesn't have a cost. Have a look at the impact of uncontrolled migration on the budget of the OCMWs, on education and on police and security costs. I'm gonna be cynical if I have to look at your shit. The Vivaldi government does have money for extra shelter, but not to lower prices at the pump. The Vivaldi government does have money to recruit mass immigration officials, but not to increase people's purchasing power. The Vivaldi government does have money to play the OCMW of the whole world, but not to tackle energy poverty. Madam Secretary of State, you are already the greatest disappointment. For the Flemish interest there must be money for our people, not for luck seekers from all over the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u102	This concludes our oral question-and-answer session.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u103	The general discussion was resumed. The general discussion has resumed. Minister De Sutter has already spoken, the floor is for the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after Mr De Sutter, I would like to respond in turn to Members' speeches on data retention. At the level of the government, but also at the level of Parliament, there has been a great deal of work in recent times on this draft, which had to remedy our previous legislation, which was destroyed by the judgment of the Court of Justice. I would, of course, like to thank the members of the Economics and Justice Committees and also my colleague, the Deputy Prime Minister responsible for Telecommunications. I would also like to thank all the services involved in developing the solution that is before us today. It is a particularly complex and highly technical matter, the importance of which should not be underestimated. Our country is at the forefront of the design in Europe. I have already been questioned by several of my colleagues from the European Member States about the solution. Allow me to clarify the starting point of the draft law, ladies and gentlemen. I think Mr Vicar, who is no longer here, said so. It is about metadata, so identification: who calls or who sits behind the computer; it is about localization: where is the device located; it is about traffic: who communicates with whom and where, and which cell tower is used. So it's not about the content of the communication. That's not what the bill's about. Of course, the government has some kind and this is the basis of everything that is not possible with the metadata. Which device I use, who I contact and from where I do it, belongs to privacy and there is no doubt about that. The exception to that principle is, of course, strictly regulated by our law. This is always done for the intelligence and security services through the permission of a magistrate. The consultation of these data can only be done in well-defined cases, at the request of a magistrate. I also say consultation and not access, because I want to stress that no one really has access to the operators' databases. In the context of a specific investigation one has to request data and it is the operator's Justice Cell that retrieves that data from the databases and communicates it to the applicant. This also applies to the other organisations which have to adapt criteria for the collection of data in their organic laws. Mr De Wit, as long as the legal basis is not there, they do not have the power to request the data or access the data. You're saying that justice has rules and the other departments don't. The Justice Department has now worked out the rules, that's right. The other departments will now have to lay down the rules and submit them to Parliament. As long as that hasn't happened, they won't have access to the data. That is what the draft law makes clear once and for all. You will no doubt remember that some "experts" in a newspaper claimed that thanks to the new legal text, the tax authorities now have much easier access to the data. Several weeks later, a court ruling showed that the tax authority is not entitled to access the metadata. The judgment thus confirmed the spirit and letter of this bill. It is only when an organic law has been adopted, for example in the tax sphere, that access can be taken into account in an individual file with the necessary guarantees mentioned in the present legislation. What does the new legal text mean for the Justice Department? What is the meaning of these metadata? I don't know if you read Le Soir of this day, but especially today, there appeared a somewhat exceptional interview with the head of the specialized department of the Federal Police, (NTSU). He referred to the great importance of these data. I quote: "100%" – it's not 98, or 99, but 100% – "severe crime investigations call for telephony." One hundred percent of all serious crime cases use telephones! A hundred percent! Not ninety-nine; one hundred percent! It is therefore obvious that, without this data, a case such as Sky ECC would not have been successful. Similarly, it would be impossible to stop in time an isolated actor who radicalizes through social networks. Or we could not explore any leads after the disappearance of a minor. In the name of privacy, it was decided that such data would not be retained by the government or an administration, but by the operators themselves. The misuse of such data should be avoided at all times. This is why they are kept by operators according to strict rules and procedures. Finally, abuses are punishable by law. The rules of data retrieval are strictly regulated. Frankly, that is not the subject of this bill either. Indeed, the access rules, the consultation rules, are already laid down in the legislation and they are very strict. This draft law deals with data retention. This law regulates conservation in a very fine, differentiated way. We have taken the ruling of the European Court as a measure. So we started from geographical criteria, based on crime figures. The Court also left the door open to personal criteria, but we deliberately did not choose to do so, because that could lead to stigmatisation or profiling, which was not an option. Mr Gilissen, there are many guarantees, including transparency. A ministerial decision shall be taken each year, including the list of judicial districts and police areas subject to detention, indicating the retention periods. In the case of overlap, the shortest storage period shall apply. Criticasters already predict that the law will be destroyed again, even though colleague De Sutter said that no one has a glass ball. The essence of this law is that it does represent a change of perspective. What is now before us is not the repair of a recovery law, as happened the first and second time. There is a change of perspective because for the first time we are writing about the use of objective and measurable criteria in the law, rather than generalised and undifferentiated preservation. That's a big difference. The European Court confirms the philosophy of our approach in a judgment of 5 April 2022, called An Garda Síochána. I quote the judgment in Dutch: "It must be stressed that the competent national authorities can take a targeted detention measure on the basis of a geographical criterion without necessarily having any concrete indication that serious crimes are being prepared or committed in those areas. To the extent that a targeted detention measure based on a geographical criterion, depending on the serious offences in question and the situation in the respective Member States, can be targeted at both places where many serious offences are committed and places where there is an increased risk, such a measure cannot, in principle, give rise to discrimination." Mr Boukili, in previous laws, the general preservation of data was enshrined in our law. This is no longer the case today. Objective criteria are now being used, as requested by the Court of Justice of the European Union. In the judgment you quote, it confirms that we can use the crime rate for serious events. This can, of course, lead to total coverage. But this is not an indiscriminate detention. Mr Boukili, you also referred to other countries. I can confirm to you that all colleagues in the European NTSU share 100% the view that sound data is necessary and indispensable. We have had contacts with our colleagues from the Bundeskriminalamt (the German Federal Police), the Dutch Judicial Police, the Irish Judicial Police, the French Judicial Police, to name but a few. All confirmed that sound data is essential for the elucidation of crimes in their country. It is true that some of them have lost the resonant data, but you are probably unaware that they have developed within some of their services the possibility of keeping data that are no longer stored by the operators. Is this a more democratic approach, ladies and gentlemen? Without data, in order to achieve the democratic objectives of justice and the police, these services are obliged to resort to other judicial methods far more intrusive than that of keeping data in areas faced with high crime rates such as, for example, physical observation of a person, wiretapping. This is much more intrusive than the resonant data. In conclusion, all security services in European countries work, in one way or another, with metadata. This is also the case in Austria, the Netherlands, Italy, Spain and Sweden. In fact, the countries you mentioned are, in your opinion, exemplary. We must follow Austria, we must follow Sweden, but these countries use other methods! Other methods that are sometimes more intrusive. While here, with this legal framework, we do so in full transparency, with objective criteria. They say how we work. While in other countries, the services keep the metadata themselves. Is it well regulated, does everyone know? Questions arise. We've been discussing encryption a lot, including within the government. Our starting point is very clear, we do not install a backdoor that could compromise the privacy of all communications. We don't forbid services, we don't do that in our country. We do not give carte blanche to our security services, but also to the providers and operators. And to do this, we impose obligations on operators and providers who offer services in our territory: a fair and similar playground for all operators. A provider such as Signal must keep track of the metadata provided it generates or processes it. If Signal does not comply, but they are the only ones who can say so, they have the opportunity to consult the regulatory authority or to comply with our rules. This applies to all conventional operators and top over operators. Collègue Boukili, there is no right to anonymity on the Internet, but there is also no obligation to always reveal one's identity. You can have an anonymous email account, you can be anonymous on Twitter, you can be anonymous on Facebook. However, the police must be able to remove this anonymity in the event of a criminal offence, e.g. by requesting the IP addresses of the operators. Total anonymity on the Internet tends to lead to chaos: trolling, stalling, Darknet, drug exchange, weapons exchange, child pornography etc. And I formally contest this statement.- Is that what you're saying? Freedom of expression is a fundamental right applied by the rule of law and not by crypto-anarchists. Everyone is entitled to an opinion, but what is it worth when we don't know if it comes from a citizen of our country or from a Russian troll factory? Colleagues, I also spoke about the tax administration. Mr De Sutter said that in the famous Article 127 we lay down the clear rules, the strict legal framework to be followed in organic legislation. It is clear that this must be respected. Colleagues, the call from the public, the press and Parliament to tackle serious, organised crime sounds loud and right. Metadata are crucial for this. A smart justice and police that want to succeed need those data more than ever. In a high-tech society, justice and police go blind without that data. However, we do sign up for the services, which are based on the rights and freedoms of our citizens. Those locks are available both at the level of consultation and at the level of preservation. In doing so, we are implementing the European legal system. Unlike a number of countries, Europe has in recent years become aware of the dangers to privacy in a high-tech society, in which a great deal of data is available. Those data can be abused, not only by the government, but also by big tech. Think of Clearview, Pegasus, Cambridge Analytica and the testimony of Frances Haugen. These are all examples. It is disturbing and terrifying to look at these practices. Ladies and gentlemen, Europe is not the United States of America, and I am proud of that. Europe rightly wants to limit the almighty government and big tech. Think of our GDPR regulations. Think also of the Digital Services Act that was approved by the European Parliament the day before yesterday, a milestone in tackling big tech. Think also of the legal ruling on data retention. In the United States, citizens are entangled in government towing nets. In Europe, citizens are protected from the omnipotence of the state. That's privacy, and those are the guarantees. That is why we attach great importance to the ruling of the European Court of Justice, which some people are so contemptuous about. That is why we have been working for so long to translate this correctly into legislation. That is why I have so much paper, because this is indeed a complex matter. Colleagues, this is in the interests of privacy. There is also an interest in safety. I would like to make it very clear that anyone who votes against this draft today is subject to privacy. I understand that the opposition cannot approve the draft, but it can also abstain, as Mrs De Wit does, but not the other members of her group. Mrs De Wit, I honestly believe that if your party were now part of the government, she would have just approved the draft. She would have just approved it. After all, she would have listened to our security people, to our police officers, to our investigators, to our magistrates and to our investigators. Your party would have just approved the design. By the way, the reason for your abstinence is not the safety part, but the other part, which is access for other governments. So you like the Justice Department section. The fact that you are a member of the opposition in relation to that part actually means that if you had been a member of the majority, you would probably have been more than inclined to approve the draft. That is not the point, however. The point is that the rest of your group votes against. I listened carefully to Mr Freilich's speech. This vote against has to do with the approach to safety. That's what this is about. At the end of his speech, he said: "In fact, all metadata come into huge databases and can be consulted at any time by the public authorities." Mr Freilich, that is what is happening in China. That's what happens in China. You claim that such a thing will now happen in Belgium. You state at the end that the law is not confined to national security. You therefore believe that the law should be confined to national security. Colleagues, national security is a concept pursued by the security of the State. The European Court distinguishes between national security and organised crime. Mr Freilich, you say that the law should have been limited to national security. This law must therefore not allow data for the fight against organised crime. That means that when it comes to the disappearance of a person, the data should not be kept. Then what do you tell the parents of missing children? You say that these data should not be kept in the fight against narcotics and narcotics. What will you tell the mayor of Antwerp? What will you tell him? How do you think we can fight against such criminals in Antwerp, for example, if we do not have the data? How the hell do you think you're gonna do that? Mrs De Wit, the fact that you are abstaining and that the rest of your group is voting against was justified in Mr Freilich's speech, who has constantly quoted reports from the Data Protection Authority. I respect the Data Protection Authority, of course, but she has said virtually nothing about the importance of our security services. Mr Freilich did not quote from the reports of the NTSU of the Federal Police, the College of Attorney General and other services that say we need the instrument. I am very surprised that a party like the N-VA now says that security is subordinate to privacy. I do not believe that this is credible and the arguments you have used do not convince me at all. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that with the legislation we have before us, we have put technical security and privacy in the balance. We are at the forefront of this in Europe. We are making that new balance clear, with a great deal of attention to privacy and respect for the services that are committed to our country's security. Once again, I urge you to approve the draft and to at least abstain from the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u105	Mr Minister, I will be brief, because we have already debated this matter and in committee, but I have one comment to make. You may keep your intention process about me and my party to yourself. I can think perfectly for myself and try to do so as much as possible. I know you're trying to find a spalt somewhere that isn't there, but I'll leave that for you. My party attaches great importance to certain checks-and-balances. Of course, we attach importance to security, but also to other rights. It is our right to do so, from the opposition. You may blame my party, but I think your party has already denied its own principles much more often than any other party, certainly in order to be able to sit in the government. Secondly, of course it is about safety. I have tried many times to explain that it is crucial. I listened to the advice and I talked to the representatives of the FGP. I am aware of the challenges facing the Justice Department to fight crime. I understand that data is essential for that. No one denied that. Nor does Mr Freilich deny that either. I will try to explain it one last time, Minister, the big problem is always being buried under the heading of security and the fight against serious crime. It is correct that these data can be used for this purpose. Clear criteria have now been set for criminal investigators to be able to access those data, criteria that are also very strict, because privacy is important. As far as the other authorities are concerned, you argue that the criteria for these authorities will subsequently be laid down in an organic law. My problem with this is that taking the list of governments into account does not always seem to them to be about the fight against serious crime. It is also about historical research or sociological research or comparative research. A whole series of governments dealing with administrative, social and tax matters will have access to metadata by means of an organic law, the content of which we do not know today nor do we know what criteria it lays down. While Justice has to meet particularly strict conditions to protect our security, the other authorities are likely to be able to handle that data much more easily, while it is not about security for them. That's just the point our party wants to make. That is our position. You won't convince me soon. We shall see, Minister, the proof of the pudding is in the eating. Work has been hard on the design, by many services and by many people. I'm not denying that. I'm not going to get out of the way of that determination. But we will see if this will work. Indeed, I am convinced that the text does represent risks, not for the Justice Department, but for the other authorities, because because the principle of checks-and-balances is not respected, the balance between security and the right to privacy can be disrupted. You may blame me as much as you like, you may find out what you want, but I believe it is still the right of our party and myself to stand up for the checks-and-balances.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u106	Do you agree that it is impossible to keep the data of the entire population undifferentiated? Do you follow the argument of the court or not? Can you answer yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u107	I have made it clear to you that the paradigmashif means that we are moving away from the generalised undifferentiated retention obligation to objective criteria. That is what we are doing, and that is also the content of the design. Undifferentiated data retention will no longer be applied. We are going to pursue objective criteria in the spirit of the European judgment of April this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u108	I'd like to hear you say that. The draft law contains two shutters. It also refers to network fraud and improper use of the Internet. In that case, there is indeed the question of the undifferentiated maintenance of all data. You have just acknowledged that the second part of the bill is not correct. So should we amend the draft? From the beginning, I say that there are different data collected and that the principle you put forward here, but half of your bill, is respected. The rest of you can get in the trash can right away. If a court has to judge this and review our discussions, you'll have killed yourself. That'll give you some more. By the way, there is a reference to crime in Antwerp, a domain that I do not follow. We have never said that crime must not be followed. If the police get their hands on a cryptophone, of course she can try to break into it. If a particular region is affected by serious crime, it is correct to keep track of data on the geographical location, but for the specific places where there is a problem. The N-VA is not against the general principle. However, we are opposed to you using the geographical location to detect facts throughout the territory or to keep track of data from the entire territory. You call yourself a pioneer in this area in Europe. That's right. Belgium is a pioneer in making a lot of data related to our privacy very quickly accessible to everything and for a lot of agencies. Finally, how are we going to vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u109	You say that the criteria you use ensure that you cover the entire territory. Then what do you propose as criteria?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u110	As Secretary of State, would you ask me how I would have done that? I'm not a minister. I didn't file a bill here. When the time comes, I'll come and defend my plan. It is your plan on which we are discussing, on which we must vote. If I had been asked to come up with a plan and talk to experts, I would have. This is not the right way to do this. You come up with a bill and you ask us to approve it. But you can't ask us what we would do ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u111	Mr Freilich, I will tell you what we are doing, it is in the draft. This is a draft law that we are discussing in Parliament. It's not a discussion between ministers. It is a discussion between Members of Parliament and the government. You're saying this is way out of line. Where are we supposed to go? What are you suggesting?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u112	We're not having that discussion right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u113	Yes, we are. We're in the middle of that discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u114	I'm not gonna come up with my own bill right now. There are several ways to do that, but now is not the time to re-examine the whole debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u115	Now it has to be done, because we're going to vote on it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u116	Minister, you are not going to make me announce my own plans here. Maybe that day will come, if I'm a minister myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u117	Mr Freilich, you are a wise Member of Parliament. You have been following the discussion in committee for months and weeks. We discussed it for five hours. Then tell me how you'd do it. Maybe I'll accept it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u118	If we have a public service with hundreds of staff, we can work out a good plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u119	You can talk to the police and the GBA, can't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u120	This is about privacy and your party has always been a pioneer in it. Privacy is important and yet I have not heard any member of your group intervene. Or did I miss that? How come they are not interfering in this debate? They know this is wrong. They know that there is a great deal of privacy going on here. Where are your colleagues? I can bounce the ball back.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u121	Mr Freilich, I have already explained to you in great detail what we are doing to protect privacy. It is a question of balance and we bring that balance. You say that this has too much to do with security and that there is too little attention to privacy. What if one would only follow the advice of the GBA? I think you even quoted from the GBA's advice. According to the GBA, there are sufficient alternatives to the police and the courts. That's what you said. I find that very interesting. I wonder how the GBA manages to make that assessment. You say that our country is a pioneer, it goes far too far. Mr Boukili has referred to a number of countries. He said those countries no longer have data retention legislation, and they're fighting crime anyway. Look at the numbers. Do you really think that all these countries in Europe no longer use data retention, that in Austria telephone data is not used in any file? Do you believe that? Of course you don't believe that! What we are doing is acting within a clear, transparent and open framework, which was approved in this Chamber. In other countries there is not much talk about it and it should not be put on the big clock, but we are doing it transparently. The GBA's opinions are serious and we have taken them into account on several points, but there are also opinions from law enforcement authorities, Mr Freilich, and you have not quoted them. I regret that, because I thought you were a Member of Parliament who considered that security was important. That's Mrs. De Wit's attitude, and that's the difference I hear between your defense and hers. Mrs De Wit says that we can discuss it, that it looks good in the safety hatch, but that she is worried about the other. I can go along with that, but I had hoped that you would have defended her statements on the safety hatch. I think you're looking too much at privacy there. You don't need a cabinet or a large FOD, but talk to the head of the NTSU. There's an interview with him today in Le Soir. That is a very interesting man who is at the top of his field in Europe. He asks to ensure such a law, because then the NTSU can continue to work and take privacy into account. If he is cut off his hands and his service makes the work difficult or impossible, it becomes more difficult to fight crime. Mrs De Wit, I understand that you have a great deal of hesitation and doubts on the other point. I do not agree with that, but I understand that, but at least convince your colleagues to abstain on the safety hatch. I think that is what colleagues from the Flemish Interest will do. They will abstain on this point and refer to Sky ECC and to the problems in Antwerp. They do that, but you are now standing on the left side of it. I don't understand. Green and Ecolo are in Parliament and consider this to be a difficult consideration. They will approve it, but the N-VA is actually at the same level as the communists. I can't imagine. That's not serious, is it? Surely you cannot belong to the same camp as the Communists in terms of security? You can't do that. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u122	Mr. Secretary, you can make a caricature of it, of course, if you like. With regard to these geographical areas, Mr Van Hecke van Groen also said that this is a difficult criterion. You will have to admit that at some point there will be a good chance that this will cover the entire territory. That can be perfect. We are concerned that there will be no further differentiation. Imagine that you have identified a number of zones where you want to keep the data and that a child disappears in a piece of the Ardennes that is not part of those selected zones. That is the problem with that criterion, on which my colleague, Mr Freilich, expressed his concern. This criterion will cause problems. We need to talk about that and about other problems. The police services will probably be aware of this, because they have to keep a lot of data for the sake of statistics. That takes an enormous amount of effort. One has to start qualifying in advance to determine the zones. So that is not an obvious exercise for these services, it is quite a challenge. We should certainly be concerned about this, because it would be wrong to assume that all of this is going to be perfect. It is therefore logical to ask questions about this in this House. You can still do that, can't you, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u123	It is not a problem for you to ask your questions and for us to discuss them. On the contrary, I am encouraging this, perhaps to annoy certain people in this House. It is good to have the debate on this. Mrs De Wit, you refer to the situation in the Ardennes, where the data would not be kept because there is little crime in certain places. Well, that is the result of European case law, which states that data retention is only possible if it is proportionate. Thus, in areas where there is virtually no organised crime, we cannot keep the data of everyone. It just can't be. So we respect European justice here. You're not saying we should do that in the Ardennes, are you? I think this is proportional and layered. You may find that undifferentiated. The retention period is indeed different, sometimes it is three months, sometimes six months and sometimes also zero months. We are following up on European justice. However, Mr Freilich does not make that point; his point is that these data should only be used in the context of national security. All these other issues, such as the disappearance of children and organised crime, are not national security. According to him, therefore, those records should not be kept. In this way, the police forces are tied hands behind their backs. That would be a very bad thing for the fight against crime in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u124	Mr Minister, I am mainly talking about the issue of the use and abuse of the network. In this context, data is now stored undifferentiatedly. That is one of our objections. In addition, we have formulated practical objections, with the question of how you will implement them all. Questions arise about the financial costs involved and about access. You are focusing on one aspect, but in our statements we have raised several points with which we have difficulty. However, Mr De Wit has expressed her understanding of the need to tackle this. It is not a black and white story, but we are asked to vote on the whole. You can evaluate our nuanced vision on the basis of our vote on the articles in the committee meeting. However, there is no article-by-article vote here in plenary. We must not make a caricature of it, we do have well-founded criticism, on the basis of what the Data Protection Authority and the operators themselves say. You say that we are a pioneer in Europe, that we will be the first to show what it is. I say that we will be the first country to keep unbridled data, especially as far as the network is concerned. Every email sent, WhatsApp or message is tracked. About 11 million Belgians will be monitored constantly and undifferentiatedly. We don't think that's possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u125	Mr Freilich, allow me to take the floor on what you say about network security and fraud. Actually, the reasoning is reversed. Operators, apart from this law, are obliged to do everything in their power to prevent fraud and prevent abuse on the networks. The way they can do that is by keeping certain data. It makes no sense at all to limit that geographically, you will agree with me, because that makes no sense. It's about, for example, smishing, about all the phenomena we know where networks are maliciously abused. The purpose of the measure is to protect the customer, the consumer. The undifferentiated retention of data was thus based on an inverse reasoning, namely the obligation of operators to protect their customers and their network in any case. To this end, certain data must be kept, the so-called call detail record, the call details register, and also data on incoming calls, the first four months, the other twelve months. That is totally unrelated to everything that has to do with the other aspects. I would like to add something about the other authorities that can also request data. We have already said that organic laws will have to settle that. These laws will pass here too. The checks and balances will therefore be discussed in Parliament. In any case, it is foreseen that when it comes to metadata, the investigating court will also have to give its consent. For the other data, the GBA, which you have rightly quoted frequently, will check whether the use of the data is proportionate and justified. That's always gonna have to happen. So those checks-and-balances will be in the system. You should also know that these do not exist in the current system. So we're going to intertwine the system. This brings with it better data and privacy protection, which is also very important for us. We really think we built in the balance that we had in the beginning.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u126	Madam President, I've been waiting for a while to reply. Minister, Minister, I am not going to remake all the debates that we have had in committee, whether at the level of criticism or at the level of responses. There has been no qualitative change in the substance of our criticisms or your answers. The evidence is that I remain convinced of my position and you remain convinced of yours. I would like to highlight one small thing about the form of the debate, which has been very interesting for weeks. Minister, there is something you do often, it is to caricature the words of your political opponents. As if those who disagree with you did not care about security or did not understand this or that. This does not raise the debate, and it would be important and more concrete and meaningful to focus on the substance. When you say that security is dependent on privacy, you give intentions to MPs who speak. That's not the case. I am doing my job as a parliamentarian, which is to exercise control over the Executive. I also appreciate the debate when it is strong like the one we have had for weeks, but it is not because we are defending a position on the issue of privacy and more fundamentally on the criticisms made by the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Justice that we are not concerned about the issue of security or the means available to our judicial police to combat organised crime effectively. As you know, you have heard our previous speeches, those of my group leader or those of my colleagues. We have intervened on several occasions, in particular to defend the work of the judicial police and to request the necessary means to enable it to act effectively. We would all win the debate if we focused on the substance. I am not going to repeat the whole debate about the various criticisms that have been made. I will remain on a general and fundamental aspect of this law. The aim is to give the tools to our judicial police without this being overturned by the European Court of Justice or the Constitutional Court. It's not about having to do the same job again, in a few years, etc. Our federal police need stability to work properly. However, this issue remains relevant despite your explanations. In fact, the previous projects have been rectified because they required a general preservation of metadata. You say that your project provides for targeted conservation. Evidence of this is that the word "generalized" was used in other bills and that yours states that it is targeted. That is what is stated in the bill. But once this law has been applied on the ground, what are the consequences? Is there a widespread retention or targeted preservation of metadata? As a result of your project, metadata is generally stored, even if you say it is targeted. The only study that exists on your bill gives us a map where data from the entire country are kept, except in the Eastern Townships. There are different colors but it's 12 months for almost 90% of the territory. Only the Eastern Townships escape. I'm positioning myself in relation to that. You tell us that in your bill, it's targeted, but in fact, we see that it's widespread. Apart from the Eastern cantons, it is 12 months for the whole country. We're leading to something widespread. How, in your opinion, could your project pass when it reproduces, in its consequences, exactly the reasons for which it was previously rejected? It is not because you have changed the word "generalised" to "targeted" that it becomes targeted. This must be verified in practice. For a while now, we've been asking you to give us a map. You have the criteria as well as the different elements. You're telling us it's targeted. Give us a map! Show us it's targeted! Until now, the elements we have in our hands lead us to widespread conservation. You can say the opposite because you put another word in the place. That doesn't change anything in fact. For this reason, I cannot vote in favour of this bill as it stands – unless you present me with an explanatory map. Be more honest by admitting that it may be widespread. You have said it more or less in your answers, but it does not appear in the bill. There's a deceit on the merchandise. Despite your appeals, Minister, I maintain my vote against this text, especially since I am sure that it will not pass the bar of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Cassation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u127	Mr. Boukili, I'll try to convince you. Don't you ever know! If we talk about the lack of targeting of data retention, it can only be generalized. Can we agree on this? If it's targeted, it may or may not be targeted. When the Court considers that the scheme cannot be untargeted and at the same time generalized, it means that it is widespread as an intention. In this case, generalisation may be the consequence of targeting work, because of a density specific to Belgium, which is not found elsewhere, or because of our crime rates. Whatever! It's all about targeting. So stop playing by asking us to show you the map. This is not the essential point, because targeting or non-targeting is at the centre of the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u128	Madam Minister, I have heard your answer. The problem is that if your target leads to widespread conservation, that is what is criticized by the European Court. I quote the Siochana judgment: "It is important in a democratic society that retention is the exception, not the rule, and that such data cannot be kept systematically and continuously". I continue: "There can be no question of re-establishing by this means a generalised and undifferentiated retention of data relating to the traffic of location data". You are talking about a target that will result in widespread conservation and the Court tells you that widespread conservation cannot be re-established by other means. Your interpretation of the judgment is partial because this part of the judgment says that you cannot have any other means that result in generalised retention. And that's exactly what you're doing. You target a target with such broad criteria that it will be generalized. And the court says no. We'll see!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u129	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u130	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2572/7) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2572/7) The bill has 48 articles. The draft law contains 48 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u131	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u132	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Koen Geens, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u133	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat the discussion and would just like to make a few comments on the draft that deals with some aspects relating to the intelligence and security services. The draft will extend the possibilities for the intelligence and security services agent to commit offences in the context of his or her assignments. He or she also gets the opportunity to infiltrate the virtual or the real world. Citizens will also be allowed to commit offences under strict conditions. Furthermore, BIMs may be used to check sources for their reliability, discretion or loyalty. In addition, a jurisdiction for the ADIV is added in the event of a national cybersecurity crisis. There will be a review of the existing methods for collecting data from banks and financial institutions. Finally, there is a whole series of changes to the day-to-day operation, so that one can improve it or correct some of the past forgetfulness of the legislator. We were able to count on many opinions, not only positive but also critical, on which we have already had a debate. No one denies the great importance of the intelligence services in our security apparatus. The terrorist attacks we have witnessed in Europe, and the possibly greater number of foiled attacks, show that the work of State Security and the ADIV is essential to guarantee our freedom and security. I am also pleased that since the previous legislature, because of the facts of course, there has been a change and more investment in security architecture has begun. The intelligence services must be given the tools both in budgetary terms and in terms of legal powers in order to be able to take appropriate action in the light of developments in our society, such as the darkweb and the new forms of communication. In that case, we must give our security services the tools to continue to fight the threats to our security. In this respect, the draft law contains many positive elements. Think of the legal possibility to set up infiltration operations so that one can invade a certain environment. As you can see, we do consider safety to be important. We welcome the fact that the recommendation on the subject of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry (POC) is finally being implemented. Once again, we must keep an eye on the checks-and-balances of such legislation and powers given to services and, where appropriate, human resources. Everything must be done with due regard for the principles of our rule of law. That's essential. As far as the infiltrations are concerned, this design does indeed correspond to the right balance. Account was also taken of the opinions and many suggestions made by the BIM Commission, the College of Attorneys General and the Committee I were also followed. However, the exercise could in our opinion be better when it comes to committing criminal offences by human sources and requesting financial data. In fact, a stricter procedure should have been developed for this purpose and, in this respect, a special method rather than a common method would have been better used. The draft contains an identical procedure for the commission of criminal offences by human sources and by agents of the security and intelligence services. While this is quite intrusive, there is a crime committed in human resources, it is an ordinary citizen who infiltrates a particular environment and is allowed to commit a crime, if this is necessary in order not to endanger his position. But a cop is better educated than a human resource or a civilian, and it's a difficult situation. It seems to me that the same procedure and the same monitoring mechanism would be used. That is not the case. The BIM Committee, the College of Attorneys General and the Committee I have advocated that this be seen not as an ordinary but as an exceptional method. You didn't agree to that. It better have happened. Compared to criminal law, the intended framework for citizens is less rigid to commit crimes. You'd have better made the parallel and aligned everything. Also for receiving financial data, the draft law opts for the ordinary method instead of an exceptional method. However, these matters have an impact on the privacy of the data subjects. This is not as self-evident as it is being posted here. Evident should be able to do so in the context of certain investigations. For me, it is a question of linking guarantees, which are much clearer in the case of an exceptional method than in the case of an ordinary method. The N-VA therefore regrets that the draft law reduces such acts to normal methods. That is why this time the entire N-VA group will abstain from voting on the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u134	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this project that we are about to vote on is essential for our intelligence services. Its purpose is to meet key needs for the proper execution of their legal missions by enabling them to react as quickly as possible to societal developments, technological advances, but also to the reality of cyber attacks and hybrid threats such as those we have recently experienced in our own Department of Defense. The project gives new prerogatives to intelligence officers, without, contrary to what has been declared, giving our agents a blank screening. These prerogatives also follow on from the recommendations of the Attentats Committee. Indeed, all the possibilities that are offered to our intelligence agents are marked by the question of absolute necessity and intended for strict purposes, namely the performance of their missions, guaranteeing their security or those of third parties. The whole is subject to prior authorisation, unless circumstances are unforeseeable and subject to scrutiny, including the requirement of a report every two weeks if the authorization to do certain acts to our agents was given for a period of more than two months. The legislation also gives prerogatives to the sources, notably through the commission of certain offences, which had been planned for civilian agents since 2018, but for intelligence officers, this was a problem in practice. This is a new possibility, but it is now indispensable, in particular to ensure the credibility of the source and to protect it. However, for my group, and these methods are of a nature that violates privacy and the exercise of other fundamental rights and freedoms, special attention must be paid to this interference. Clear benchmarks must be set properly, in order to guarantee fundamental rights. These new measures must always respect the principle of proportionality and meet the legitimate objective pursued by law, namely, the intelligence mission. The draft provides for strict control with a strict authorisation procedure involving the responsible agent, the BIM commission upstream and the Committee R a posteriori. We therefore welcome the fact that controls are extended and comparable to those existing for exceptional data collection methods. In addition, the project also responds to a request from the Belgian Cyber Security Centre, which allows Defence to put its cyber capabilities at the service of the nation in the event of a national cybersecurity crisis. This is an important step forward given the context. The issue of cybersecurity is obviously essential, and the Minister of Defence has taken the subject in arms. It is true that our country has fallen behind in cybersecurity: the under-investment in defence under Minister Vandeput is not foreign to it. However, the emergence of hybrid threats forces us to adapt our institutions, at the risk of our state being paralysed at a time when the digitalization of our public services, our privacy and our socio-economic fabric is increasingly prevalent, a trend further reinforced by the health crisis. The protection of our critical infrastructure, public services and socio-economic fabric must therefore be a priority for all our administrations, CPS and departments. In this context, the Minister presented strong cyber ambitions as soon as she took office. In its Policy Note 2022, it is stated that the focus will be on strengthening operational cyber capabilities within the General Intelligence and Security Service (GSRS) and starting what will eventually become the Cyber Component of Defence. This project is, of course, part of this logic. For all these reasons, my group will support this project, which enables our intelligence services to be as forward-looking as possible and to have the tools necessary to fulfil their legal mission in the face of a changing threat, while ensuring clear and necessary safeguards.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u135	Mr Minister, there are several very good things in this draft law that my group can certainly support, but there are also a number of criticisms that you should not underestimate and certainly not minimize. I will briefly comment on three articles of the draft law. Firstly, Article 6 (10) concerns the termination of the measure by the Head of Service. The BIM Committee, however, considers that it should be able to withdraw its agreement to commit criminal offences at any time when it finds that the measure is no longer necessary for the performance of the contract or to ensure the safety of the agent or third parties, where the measure is no longer useful for the purpose for which it was requested, for example, no longer meets the proportionality requirement, and where an illegality is established. That is a number of essential elements. If I am not mistaken, the BIM Committee or the Committee I can withdraw its agreement under the present draft law only if there is an illegality and not if the other conditions, which the BIM Committee has expressly called for, are no longer fulfilled. There is a contradiction here and I would like to stress that the BIM Committee is certainly not an insignificant partner in this matter, quite the contrary. I would also like to draw your attention to the composition of the BIM Committee, which consists of magistrates led by an investigating judge. They are people who judge in a sound way, with knowledge of the facts. We therefore regret that you have not taken up this position. Secondly, Article 7 of this bill deals with the commission of criminal offences by human sources. Here, the BIM Committee expressly advocates making it an exceptional method, rather than an ordinary method. In this way, not only the offence is controlled, but also the method in itself. I am thinking, for example, of necessity, proportionality and usefulness. The College of Attorneys General also has a clear position. It states that there is an imbalance between the human resources controlled by the intelligence and security services on the one hand and the infiltrators and civilian infiltrators controlled by the police and judicial authorities on the other. It is warned that this could lead to creative applications in practice. Minister, you know better than I do, the monitoring and guidance mechanisms are much stricter in the case of civilian infiltration than in the proposed regulation for human resources. An informant can never be authorized to commit a crime. The College considers that working with sources that may commit offences should be explicitly classified as a specific or exceptional method. Thirdly, Article 17 deals with the collection of financial data. This is an exceptional method at present, and this draft law seeks to change it. It wants to turn this into an ordinary method. Both the Standing Committee I and the BIM Committee stated in their opinion that the arguments contained in the explanatory memorandum could not be followed because the photograph of someone's banking relationships, such as bank accounts, savings accounts, investment accounts, credit openings, loans, life insurance, etc., is not at all comparable to the photograph of someone's electronic means of communication. According to the BIM Committee, the method would be better qualified as a new specific method rather than as a new ordinary method. Mr Minister, I have just said it, but I would like to stress it once again and end with it, both the BIM Committee, and I have just said which eminent members are in it, and the College of Attorneys General, which is made up of people with experience, people who know what they are talking about, are quite critical of these three points. We regret that this has not been addressed. That is why, despite the fact that we can support the major objectives, we will abstain from this draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank everyone for the debate we have had, together with my colleague in the defence sector. It was a qualitative and efficient debate. I would just like to point out what is at stake today. The threat in our country is diffused today. This threat comes mainly from lone actors, who are inspired by jihadist ideology, but sometimes also by right-wing extremist ideology. Often these are perpetrators with underlying psychological problems. I would like to refer to one of the most recent examples on European soil, namely the shooting at the gay bar in Oslo on 25 June by an alleged jihadist, with two deaths. So we need to stay alert. We all agree on that. This means that we must not be deceived by the words "isolated actors". Indeed, these isolated actors are almost always connected through the social media used by hate propaganda and extremists. These people skilfully use social media to polarize and sow hatred. While radicalisation and networking by potential terrorists often take place on social media, in recent years this phenomenon has also shifted from open and publicly accessible forms to secret groups on encrypted platforms such as Telegram. Colleagues, we need ears and eyes on social media. These are our intelligence services, but they must also be given the means to do so properly. That's what this bill is about. So we give them more room for manoeuvre in the social media by allowing them to commit certain crimes. In order to gain access to the secret rooms, our security forces must be able to gain the trust of their target. In doing so, they often collide with the limits of what is permitted by law. We therefore provide an adapted framework. A concrete example is the admission to the use of extremist and hateful language to access certain fora, for example, in order to gain insight into the recruitment of potential terrorists. Let me give you another example. If the infiltrator wants to join a small circle that shares online propaganda, he or she should be able to gain confidence by sometimes sharing something. At the moment, this is illegal and therefore not allowed. Let me give you one last example. When a known potential terrorist informs online about the beliefs of the infiltrator, he must be able to say that he is on the same side to maintain his information position. The risk of the target cutting the trust bond is always real and the possible consequences are very great. Of course, dear colleague Zanchetta, we do not give the intelligence services carte blanche. The use of these methods is approved a priori by the BIM Commission, composed of three judges. This system works well and meets the requirements of our rule of law. A posteriori review is carried out by Parliament, through Committee R. This week again, I had a good exchange of views with the deputy general ad interim of the State Security and with the parliamentary monitoring committee, Madam President of the House. I come to the three points made by Mr Dillen. We discussed it at the committee meeting, but Rule 6, § 10, is the question of how the BIM Committee can follow the evolution of a concrete action on the ground. She can't. It is the administrator-general of State Security or the ADIV who can assess the situation on the ground and it is the BIM Committee that judges the principle of legality. It can obtain information in advance on the necessity and proportionality and if it does not have sufficient information, it will not approve it. With regard to Article 7, the comparison made by eminent services. We read that and take it seriously, but it is not because they give an opinion that we always have to follow it. We have a good argument. The civilian infiltrator is not the same as a human source. The citizen infiltrator is a special detection method in itself, requiring prior authorisation from an investigating judge. A human source of state security is a common method. That's a big difference. A citizen's infiltrator shall not commit any offence unless consent is given. That's exactly what we provide for human resources. It may not, unless the BIM Committee gives prior consent. As far as the financial data is concerned, we do indeed disagree. We believe that if one considers whether or not someone has an account, it would qualify as a specific exceptional method, this is simply too heavy for our services. Finally, this draft law is part of the strengthening of our intelligence and security services. You know that we want to carry out the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry faithfully. This is evident not only from this draft law, for which I thank my predecessors who have prepared this, but also from the reinforcement we are implementing for the security of the state. With Horizon 2024 we go from 580 to 1,000 employees. Today there are 747 employees. I also refer to the fact that we made the choice to place state security in a brand new, environmentally friendly and sustainable building in our capital city by 2025. That's what our bill says. After all, we are convinced that a strong intelligence service to make our society resilient to the danger of extremism, terrorism, espionage, interference and polarisation through disinformation is more than ever on the agenda. Hence this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u137	Mr Minister, to conclude today's debate with a positive note, thank you for thanking me for the debate in committee. I was the only one with whom you had the debate at the time. It shows once again that security and the rule of law are also two important issues for my group.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u138	Mr Minister, for the sake of clarity, the Flemish interest is pleased that this draft law implements one of the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. We recognise that there are important threats that our intelligence services must remain very alert to. That's not a point of discussion. You have tried to refute the three points I raised concerning the articles. I'm gonna stick with that. The criticism didn't come from me, I didn't make it up myself. It comes from agencies, such as the Commission and the College of Attorneys General, which really speak with knowledge of the facts. That is why I have taken the liberty of expressing that criticism here. Once again, the principle itself, the underlying principle of this bill, is of the opinion that the Vlaams Belangroep is a very good thing. We can support that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u139	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u140	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2706/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2706/3) The bill has 27 articles. The draft law has 27 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u141	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u142	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Tania De Jonge, Nahima Lanjri.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u143	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. MM. Mathieu Bihet and Christophe Bombled, rapporteurs, refer to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u144	Madam President, staff members without a permanent place of work, for example at Proximus, are not entitled to an additional mobility allowance. That they do ask, is understandable. Just because they work for an autonomous public body, they don't get it today. The extension of the legislation on the mobility allowance to include public economic enterprises can do so. By the way, this also restores the less favourable competitive position of these companies. As we have already pointed out in committee, it is a little strange that the proposal on Open Vld was discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs. The system seems to us to be one of the powers of the Minister of Civil Service, Petra De Sutter, all the more so because it indicated itself to work towards an approximation of legislation. Perhaps it is more a proof of the "good" atmosphere between the coalition parties, where one walks with the plumes of the other or tries to mow the grass at the feet of the other. It remains a very strange way of working. In substance, we have no problem with the proposal. It forms part of the equivalence of schemes which, strangely enough, were not applicable to employees of public economic enterprises. So we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u145	Mrs Lanjri had registered as a speaker, but she is not present at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u146	Madam President, workers in the private sector with a mobile workshop are paid a transfer fee, not employees of an economic public body. Precisely because these companies have a competitive disadvantage over Telenet and other providers, we are extending the scheme with this proposal. I am very pleased that our proposal was adopted unanimously in the Committee on Social Affairs. I would like to thank colleagues for that. Mr Verreyt, allow me to respond to your statement. I filed the bill in June 2020. During that period we did not have a government with full competence, but the proposal was for discussion. Afterwards, we also consulted closely with Minister De Sutter's cabinet. I'm rounding up. The draft law provides for an extension of the relocation allowance for non-permanent workers to economic public enterprises. I am very pleased that this has eliminated an important inequality between workers on the ground. I thank all my fellow Members for their support and I look forward to the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u147	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u148	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1279/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1279/4) The title was amended by the commission to "proposal for a law amending Article 19, § 2, 4°, of the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969 adopted in implementation of the Law of 27 June 1969 revising the Decree-Law of 28 December 1944 on social security for workers, as regards the mobility allowance for public economic enterprises". The title was changed by the Committee to 'proposal for a law amending Article 19 (2) of the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969 implementing the Law of 27 June 1969 revising the Decree Law of 28 December 1944 on social security for workers, as regards the transfer allowance to public economic enterprises'. The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u149	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u150	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Anja Vanrobaeys, Melissa Depraetere, Sophie Thémont, Florence Reuter, Nahima Lanjri, Tania De Jonge, Cécile Cornet, Kristof Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u151	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Ellen Samyn and Mr Hans Verreyt, rapporteurs, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u152	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal before us is a step forward in terms of discrimination in the labour market. Today, workers should not be discriminated against on the basis of their current or future health status. That's a good thing. It's not because someone has cancer that that person should be released suddenly. However, for a good reason an important nuance was incorporated into that law, namely that it concerns both current and future health conditions. The N-VA Group fully supports that position in the law, as well as the rationale for the legislative proposal before us today, namely the fight against discrimination in the labour market. However, we do think that the way in which this happens is beyond its goal, even more so, that it will work counterproductively. Let me explain this in more detail. From the moment one can no longer use absenteeism, for whatever reason, as an evaluation criterion, for example in the case of collective redundancies, one goes at least one step too far. Why is that? People who become seriously ill and who are absent from work for good reason are always being thought of. But it's not about those people. It's about a lot of employees who don't always take it so close, who aren't always so collegial and therefore don't mind skipping a day after the weekend on Monday. That's the famous Monday sickness. Why is that a problem? First of all, it is necessary for employers to be at a cost, but it is particularly uncollective because those wrongly absent workers place all the burden on the shoulders of their colleagues who do go to work on Monday. That really can't be the intention. We fully agree that a person who is seriously ill should not be discriminated against in any way in the labour market. It would be an absolute disgrace if this were to happen. However, we do not agree that absenteeism in any form should no longer be used as an evaluation criterion when, for example, choices should be made in the context of collective redundancies. For the sake of the organisation on the work floor and for the sake of the workload of colleagues, people suffering from Monday sickness must be responsible for their choices.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u153	Mr Anseuw, these are people who, as demonstrated in Ghent University research, have been ill and are discriminated against on the basis of a serious disease they have had in the past. You're talking about Monday sickness here. I said in committee that the criteria of discrimination should always be assessed in a proportionate manner. This is also requested in the opinion of the National Labour Council. I have said this repeatedly, it must be legitimate and not excessive. I think you're looking at the worst side, not the goal we're pursuing. You will then mention some examples that are in addition to the issue for me. I wonder why you are always going to look for it on the edge and always quote those examples. We are talking here about people who have been seriously ill and who want to give us back opportunities and who are indeed discriminated against.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u154	Mrs Vanrobaeys, you say that I am not looking at the purpose of this bill. One of the first things I said today is that we fully support this objective. Why do I cite the example of workers who too easily invoke chronic Monday sickness? Because just that may be one of the apparently unwanted effects, and in a number of cases, of the legislation before us today. You're saying this isn't supposed to happen. What I'm telling you here, I've already told you on the committee. My question to you, then, is why you have not in the meantime made an attempt to correct the bill in order to prevent improper use of the bill. You say that this is not the intention, but that is not the way it is translated into the bill, and that is why I am quoting it again today. That is also right, because I am concerned that, firstly, the people who come to work on Mondays, but also that, secondly, the support for the fight against discrimination against people in the labour market who are seriously ill should not be undermined by a number of people who are not so close to collegiality and good agreements. That's my concern. I'm assuming you can't resist that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u155	We have received the report from the committee that evaluates the anti-discrimination laws. The amendment proposal that it contains is literally what it says in my bill. So it was literally taken over. I won't question these people's expertise, they do it every few years. So it simply gave effect to their recommendation, even before the evaluation report came. I have also explained clearly that the preparatory work should include the need for a proportionate assessment of discrimination. I really don't see what else you mean and what else could happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u156	Mrs. Vanrobaeys, I think you can see it. You said what I meant just now. My concern is to avoid the improper use of a well-meaning measure. I do not want to undermine the acceptance of the fight against real discrimination in the labour market for people who are seriously ill, for example. You refer to the expertise of people who are foreign to this Parliament. It is not, of course, because experts present a report, that we are, by definition, relieved of our duty to continue to think critically, not only about what we are doing but also about how it is translated into legislative work here in Parliament. I think this is one of our three core tasks. So you cannot blame me for defending those who are rightfully afraid of being discriminated against, for example those who are seriously ill. You can't stand the thought of me sticking up for them. I also suspect that you have no problem with me taking it up for the people who do come to work on Mondays. They pay the price for a number of people who are now given an extra weapon to prove their improper use of a new rule. I think this is well-intentioned legislation, but your good intentions have actually been mistranslated, as I said in committee. In the meantime, however, you have not taken advantage of the opportunity to review your proposal. That I am also the reason why we will not support it. This is not because we do not support the objective, but because it has been translated into the legislative work before us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u157	Mr Anseuw, I often hear that from you, and you agree with the objective, but if a concrete solution is proposed, you will not participate and you will leave the people to their fate. That's not the first time. You are talking about being critical in Parliament. I already wrote the bill for the evaluation committee. If you look at the other recommendations, you will see that they are all already in my bill. We are looking for solutions and offering them so that people who have been ill are no longer discriminated against.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u158	Mrs Vanrobaeys, you are actually using a false contradiction here. You're acting like your bill is the only possible solution. I have explained today why we do not support this solution, but that we support its objective. I am sorry that you are locked up in your own grand right and that you are closing your eyes to improper use. We will see what happens in the workplace, but I think that many people will not be better off on Monday, even more so than they are today. I fear that this will not help those who are threatened with discrimination on the basis of a serious disease. That is my fear, my concern. I regret that you are reducing that to a fixed contradiction. That is rhetorically well tried, but it doesn't really make much sense. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u159	Madam President, first of all I wanted to thank Mrs Vanrobaeys for this excellent initiative and her co-signature proposal, because it is a pleasure to work to reduce discrimination and to offer more room - including in the labour market - to people who have been confronted with health problems and who are sometimes discriminated against for this reason. I then note that the opinions were in support of this improvement in anti-discrimination legislation. Objectively, Unia reminded us, people who have experienced health problems in the past are literally and regularly discriminated against. This, moreover, does not appear only in the Unia report. Each of us, as parliamentarians, hears testimony from men and women on this subject. And I am thinking precisely of many of them who have experienced breast cancer, which is very widespread. We all know someone who has suffered from it and who suffers the consequences on the labour market, because his medical past catches him up when he wants to return to the labour market. This is what this study by the University of Ghent reports, in which it appears that cancer survivors are truly less likely than others to achieve recruitment. This becomes even worse when other difficulties arise. It is therefore a real pleasure to be able to contribute to giving more visibility to this discrimination arising from someone's medical past, and not only from his current state of health. We also hear that the National Labour Council (NCT) supports the objective pursued. I would like to stress once again that, in the face of this objective of reducing the discrimination suffered by men and women because of their medical background, some speak of "Monday sicknesses". I consider this answer too short in this debate, which seeks to correct discriminatory situations. The Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities said no other thing: "Of course, we support this ambition. We share it. And besides, we have the ambition to have a much more global reflection for a more general law." Here we are implementing one of the recommendations of the report that Mrs Vanrobaeys has just mentioned. We have one point of attention: that this improvement can find its place in a coherent whole. In any case, we are pleased to move forward in this direction and are pleased that this can be done in the future, in line with other improvements in these anti-discrimination laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u160	Madam President, for my group, eliminating discrimination is always a victory. Thanks to this text, which responds to a recommendation from Unia, our Assembly recognizes that the state of health of a worker must never be a ground for discrimination, including at work, in the past, in the present or in the future. Until now, workers were protected from discrimination related to their health status at the time of hiring or during their contract, but with this legislation, things are changing. I am thinking of all the women who are victims, as Mrs Cornet has just said, of breast cancer, for example, who then struggle to find a job. They'll finally be protected. It is a question of equality between all workers and all workers. It is also a positive way to support long-term patients in their return to work. It is just one month after the 110th session of the International Labour Conference on Occupational Health and Safety. It is therefore with great enthusiasm that my group will vote for this text today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u161	After many years of searching, we have finally found something in which Unia is right, even though the accusations of the form of possible discrimination in question account for the many millions who squander the useless institute every year, not and even less for keeping it alive. In the preparation of the file we have based ourselves on the reports of Kom Op Tegen Kanker. Not so long ago, together with many of our colleagues in plenary, we were wearing the yellow ribbon of that organisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u162	Mr Verreyt, you have already indicated this in committee. Yesterday the decision was taken that Flanders should leave Unia. I wonder if you really realize what Unia is doing, including for people who are sick, for people with disabilities. Unia doesn't always lead with the band. No, for people who are sick or for people with disabilities, Unia will work with the employer and provide Unia with more inclusive workspace and education. I wonder why you're always so strong against that. At the moment, many people with disabilities and sick people are helped by Unia. I'll give you an example from my surroundings. An acquaintance with autism, who was always alone in an office before, could no longer function when one moved to a large platform. Her employer didn't understand that, especially, he had no insight into it. I don't blame people for not understanding a particular problem. Unia will then assist the employer without judgment, so that he gets an insight into the problem and takes appropriate measures for the employee concerned, so that they can function, such as the lady with autism from my example. Do you realize that your reaction to Unia means that many people miss opportunities?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u163	We know that it is hard for a socialist to believe that people continue to follow and defend their party program. We are pleased that the Flemish Government and the Flemish Parliament have finally followed Flemish Interest in the past week. We can only welcome that, of course. I'll be very happy to rub it in today. I understand that you do not like that, but you are, certainly in the Flemish part of the country, on the side of the minority, and not on the side of those who are right.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u164	Mr Verreyt, it's not about whether I like it or not. The point is that all those concerned are now just standing alone in the cold. That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u165	Madam President, as I pointed out, we were rather looking at the reports by Kom op against Cancer, an organisation that has put a lot of useful and necessary things on paper. I have already said that a few months ago, during the plenary session, we carried with many people the ribbon of that organisation. This was not only a sign of solidarity with those who fight against cancer or with their neighbours, but also a silent support for some of their demands to Parliament. It cannot be justified that, in their search for work, people should be taken into account for their health status in the past, present or future, and also for their vaccination status. The fact that both employers' and workers' representatives are in favour of adaptation is significant. It may also help to enable the reintegration of former sick people. The Flemish interest will therefore support the adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u166	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the question here is: is it normal that a person who has been ill and is now cured should not be able to get a job? The answer is no, of course. And yet, on the ground, it exists. Not only did this person have to fight to overcome the disease, but, as if that were not enough, a person who has overcome a serious illness or cancer is caught up in this difficult stage of his life because some employers are reluctant to hire someone who has been ill. For my group, of course, this is unacceptable discrimination. We cannot endure the consequences of a disease forever. It is necessary to be able to move forward, to be able to return to a social and professional life without having to be judged. Health cannot be a source of discrimination, let alone discrimination in employment. And yet, federal legislation lacks precision in this regard. It fully incorporates the current and future state of health as a ground of discrimination against which to combat, but fails to take into account the person's previous state of health. A future employer could therefore use it to dismiss a candidate, when all the necessary skills and motivation requirements are met. This is inconsistent and totally unfair. This was noted in the evaluation report of the federal anti-discrimination legislation, but it is also included in the recommendations. We heard it from Unia or Kom op tegen Kanker. With this text, we will now speak of a state of health, without reference to a period of time. I would like to thank my colleague Anja Vanrobaeys for her initiative, but also the members of the Social Affairs Committee for the effective work done. It is our duty to remove all barriers to return to employment. It is our duty to put an end to discrimination. This is also part of the government agreement, the aim of which is to promote job reintegration as much as possible. We can therefore only applaud this objective. The MR Group will strongly support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u167	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, all forms of discrimination must be combated, whether they are discrimination in terms of sex, age, origin or disability. In fact, we must have zero tolerance in any form of discrimination, including any form of discrimination in the field of health. However, we are also experiencing this, including in the labour market. People who have been cured of cancer sometimes don't get the same chances. They still run the risk of not being recruited. So we must avoid that. We cannot tolerate people who have had health problems in the past missing new opportunities to participate in society. Actually, they're being double-punished. They're already having a harder time since they've been sick. If they have overcome the disease and are also discriminated against when applying, this makes it all the more painful. The state of health should not in any way hinder the opportunities offered to people in the labour market, for example when applying for employment, but also in life in general. For this reason, the CD&V has gladly supported and co-signed Mrs Vanrobaeys' proposal. I would also like to thank her and congratulate her on the initiative. In our legislation, however, something was already foreseen for non-discrimination on the basis of current health status and future health status, which was not included in the law for the past. It was included in a number of collective agreements, such as collective agreement 38 and collective agreement 95. There was the disease history in it, but it is much better to effectively anchor it legally, so that one should never discriminate in terms of one's state of health, whether it is the past, present or future. That is the merit of the proposal. We also deal with this discrimination in the law. With the vote of this law, we hope to send an important signal to employers, but at first also to those involved. We're counting on everyone. Everyone deserves a chance. Everyone has the right to develop, including in the labour market. Neither your descent, nor your sex, nor your disease history do that. People must, of course, be given the same opportunities. The CD&V will be happy to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u168	Madam President, we will also support this proposal. This is a small sentence in the law, which can have major consequences for people. A person must not be discriminated against on the basis of the past of the state of health. Mr Anseeeuw spoke just now about restructuring. He believes that the previous state of health is important. That reminded me of a story Gaby Colebunders told me about Ford Genk in 2003. Then a restructuring took place, with 1,400 employees blacklisted because they had been absent more often. I hear today from the N-VA that people who have been ill before, perhaps not because of working conditions, should be dismissed. There were 625 workers from Ford who have undergone this discrimination. They took 32 workers of them to court where they were wrong at the time. At that time, the Labour Court said that discrimination can only be based on disability and on current or future illness and not on disease in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u169	Mrs Merckx, with all due respect, you're running a little short when you paraphrase me. I have indeed said that absenteeism must be an element in the evaluation for us. I did not say that absenteeism is, by definition, a good reason to fire someone. Those are the words you put in my mouth. There's a bit more nuance in the story I've brought. It is true that absenteeism must be one of the elements for us. That is quite another thing than saying that one can be fired if one has been ill a lot. I never said that, and I never will. There's a world of difference between what you said and what I said. The truth has its rights, colleague. We can disagree peacefully, but let us keep it right.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u170	You did say that it could be used in the context of restructuring. When you said that, I remembered what happened at Ford Genk. Then people were effectively fired because they had been absent and you apparently think this can be charged. So we disagree on that. Those people lost that trial back then. If a similar trial were to take place again today, they would be able to win, because that could effectively be described by the judge as discrimination. It is therefore clear that the PVDA supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u171	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Vanrobaeys for this legislative proposal. This is an important and necessary complement to anti-discrimination legislation. Any form of discrimination is reprehensible and has a huge impact on people's lives. It affects many people who, because of their skin colour, gender, age, ethnic origin, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity and current or future state of health, are unequally treated and often excluded. The stories we heard during the debate in committee showed that people are also discriminated against because they have suffered a serious disease in the past. However, we must be vigilant, because there are indeed situations where an employer does not engage in recruitment for safety reasons, if the previous state of health is relevant to that job. I gave the example in committee of someone who is having seizures and who, for example, cannot work as a technician on windmills. In that case, we cannot, of course, talk about discrimination. If you are eligible for a job, even if you were seriously ill in the past, you must have all the opportunities. People with a medical history have already been tested very hard, and if they are discriminated against on top of that because of that medical history, it is hard to do so. The psychological consequences cannot be underestimated. Those people are actually confronted again with a difficult and often painful period that they experienced in their lives. The uncertainty therefore often strikes. The important step to once again mean something to society is abruptly broken down. That is unacceptable to us. We therefore fully support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u172	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a gap in the CV due to cancer appears to be particularly damaging to employment opportunities. Research by Ghent University, at the request of Kom Op Tegen Kanker, confirms that. I didn't need that research because Christel, a friend of mine since high school, was also confronted with it in a job interview after she overcame breast cancer. "When do you think you're going to relapse?" That's the question she got on that job interview. It was getting deadly quiet. She wanted to say, "I hope never again," but she couldn't get that over her lips. Too many employers still fear that being sick in the past will also mean being sick in the future. However, no one is asking to get seriously ill. Those who want to take back the thread after all these heavy treatments and periods of isolation should have every opportunity to do so, rather than the lid on the nose. A person's chances should never depend on prejudice, discrimination or chance. Anyone who's ever had cancer has ten times less chance of getting a job than someone who's ten years older. That too is very serious. After cancer, women still have fewer opportunities than men. For those lucky enough that the company's HR manager has ever experienced the same illness, there is more understanding. After a depression or a burn-out, no longer thinking away from this society today, the odds are falling even further. The current anti-discrimination law offers far too little protection to those who have been cured. That is why I have tabled this proposal so that it is expressly stated that no one should be discriminated against because of his or her disease history. If this is to happen, employers will have to pay compensation, because those who overcome a serious illness must have every opportunity to let their talent shine again, both in job applications and in the workplace. I am therefore particularly pleased that we can approve the legislative proposal today. It responds to a recommendation from Unia since 2017 and to a question from the committee that evaluates the application of the anti-discrimination laws and especially from Kom op tegen Kanker. I would also like to thank that organisation for the fact that the study of Ghent University funded by it was an object of well-known stories in this respect and that it initiated the amendment of the law on discrimination by means of the legislative proposal before us. Finally, I would like to thank my co-authors for signing the bill and all my colleagues for their support and approval this evening. In particular, I hope that the legislative proposal will help raise awareness of the problem, so that no one in the future will be asked in a job interview when he or she thinks he or she is going to relapse, so that no one in the future has to leave their talents at home after a serious illness. Health is our highest good. Getting back to work, making healthy, both mentally and physically. Anyone who has been seriously ill must have the right to forget that he or she was once a patient. The same applies, of course, to the employers who employ them. Everyone deserves a carefree return to the workplace.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u173	Madam President, like my colleagues, I should first of all thank Mr Vanrobaeys for having tabled this bill, which, as has been said, is implementing a recommendation made by UNIA, with a view to better protecting people with a medical history, whether it is a disease, but I am also thinking of an accident, medical complications following an operation, or a transplant, mainly against the risk of discrimination, but not just the risk of discrimination. on the labour market. I listened very carefully to the example cited and even lived by Mrs Vanrobaeys' friend. I must say that this situation is just as challenging as it is unfair. So I really thank her very warmly for bringing to light this discrimination, which is being experienced with great violence by all the other patients who have suffered it. If today's anti-discrimination legislation protects health status, it actually corresponds to the current or future state of health, i.e. the current state of a physical or mental illness, which has been diagnosed as such, or to the future or reasonably foreseeable state of health. It is expressed as such in the law but also necessarily applied as such by our courts and tribunals. The Antwerp Labour Court, in a 2008 judgment, as well as the Brussels Labour Court, in a 2015 judgment, confirmed that the previous state of health was in no way a criterion protected in the anti-discrimination law. It is therefore clear that this law applies only when chronic diseases, other degenerative diseases and other mental disorders have permanent sequelae, which can therefore be regarded as disabilities, resulting in the complete absence of too large a range of patients who also have the right to be protected against discrimination based on their state of health. I am thinking, for example, of a person who has had cancer in the past, who has been able to cure it, but who, in view of his possible risk of relapse, is not, today, protected in any way against an employer's refusal to hire that person or even to keep him at work. I quote this example of cancer, unfortunately, because it is common, but also because a recent study by the University of Ghent, KUL or VUB, which had been commissioned by the Kom op tegen kanker association and carried out with recruiters, has clearly shown that former cancer patients who have a break in work on their CV, because of their illness, are actually less likely to be hired. Why? Because recruiters are concerned that absenteeism due to illness may be higher in former cancer patients and fear that these individuals are physically less strong or need work adjustments that result in higher costs than a non-interrupted candidate. These fears are groundless and result in a refusal to engage. These fears create more obstacles to the career reintegration of people who are trying to turn the page of a disease that they have eventually overcome. I mentioned the remission of cancer, but I'm also thinking about the remission of hepatitis or a kidney transplant. The examples were infinite and deserved to be covered by the law. The collective agreement No 95 of 10 October 2008 concerning equal treatment during all phases of the employment relationship takes into account this anteriority of the state of health. I can also quote the decree adopted by the Flemish Parliament on 10 July 2008 on the framework of the Flemish policy on equal opportunities and treatment, which also uses the criterion of past health status. It shows that it was more than time for the federal level to harmonize this concept in order to protect all patients against this type of discrimination in the employment sector but also in the housing or insurance sector, regardless of their region. For these reasons and because the cure of a disease must be synonymous with a new beginning and certainly not with stigma or discrimination, it is with conviction, enthusiasm and recognition that we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u174	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u175	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2227/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2227/4) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u176	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. Since it was 6:00 p.m., I would like to announce that we will close the current ballot in room 3, if no one has forgotten to vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u177	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Marie-Christine Marghem, Christophe Bombled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u178	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u179	Madam President, I refer to the written report and would like to make the following statement on behalf of our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u180	Of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law which is intended to amend and partially replace the so-called synatom law of 2003. In fact, the story starts with the actions of Secretary of State Deleuze who put the issue on the table in 2003. Let us be honest, that too was a great step forward. There was no framework for the provisions until then. That has to be looked at in the spirit of the past. Many of the provisions that we are adapting today, and which have been debated over the past few months and years, were fundamental issues raised by the Secretary of State at the time. I am thinking here of the passage, which is often referred to, that 75% of the facilities can be lent back to the operators. That is very strange to us today, in the current context, and we question it, but that was a part and also the result of the negotiations that Secretary of State Deleuze had with Electrabel at the time. It is also striking that the discussion of the original text in Parliament was largely limited to a single remark by Mrs Creyf of the CD&V Group, who asked whether that percentage could not be reduced. So they did not want to know about this at the time; in the years after that they did look at the file differently. When I started here, the big debate on the synatom law was mainly about who could make use of the money. It was dreamed of using the money in other sectors, to which it could be lent at a very low interest rate. The billions of euros were at stake. Today we look at that differently. I think it is a good thing that 75% can return to Synatom itself. This means that more resources are available. This is in line with the thinking that existed during the previous legislature, namely that as nuclear power stations are shut down, whether you are in favour or against, another issue is that it is not very logical that those funds should remain with the operator. The source of income is slowly but surely being closed down. As a result, profits are no longer obtained from certain power stations. It is therefore not very logical that the operator can still lend these resources to itself. During the previous legislature, we also pointed out this to the Minister at the time, requesting that 75% be reduced. That also exists today in the design. What's hard? That is that with the deal actually made with the agreement on the table, an amount of EUR 1.8 billion of those cents may remain with the operator until 2030. At the time when the government's idea was that all nuclear power stations should be shut down by 2025, that is, of course, a loan in which we can ask ourselves whether that was really the right path to follow. In this sense, there is also a link with today's actuality. I noticed in the newspapers that Minister Van der Straeten once again expressed her hope that an agreement would be reached on the extension of the two youngest plants by 21 July 2022. She has already expressed that hope on a date in September. So I'm curious where things are going. However, at a time when the current government is failing to reach an agreement, I do not quite understand why Vivaldi would still give ENGIE the privilege to repay that amount of EUR 1.8 billion only five years after the last central possibilities have been closed. To date, I have not received a single signal that the extension will come about. We're not getting much information on that. I understand that there is a need for negotiation. At some point, however, there must be a result in this area and we must look at where we end up in this area. I know the answer to that. I am then reminded that the deadline must also be reasonable in order to repay the funds and that this cannot be done too quickly, because otherwise the operator will be in trouble. I understood that argument before the whole European price crisis arose. Meanwhile, however, the government has indicated at several times that ENGIE is making huge profits with nuclear power plants today. Well, then that argument doesn't make any sense. It cannot be said, on the one hand, that ENGIE's cash flow is so bad that it needs to be allocated EUR 1.8 billion so that the loan stays in ENGIE's pocket for another five years and, on the other hand, that ENGIE is making huge overprofits that need to be skimmed. These two theories are extremely difficult to identify. We are very much looking forward to the way that will happen. As long as the life of the power stations is not extended, ENGIE will not have to repay EUR 1.8 billion as an almost free loan. That is why the N-VA Group has tabled an amendment. Extending the repayment period until 2030 is only possible for our group if it is linked with revenue, namely that the plants remain operational after 2025. In that case, it is justified that such reimbursement may be abandoned. However, if there is no source of income anymore, it is logical that by 2025 those last discs will be refunded. I'd like to know your views on this matter. A second aspect of the draft law is the difficult relationship of the government with everything related to nuclear energy. The draft law states that Synatom's resources must not be invested in fossil and nuclear energy companies. As far as fossil energy is concerned, this is understandable, but as far as nuclear energy is concerned, I wonder why it is mentioned there. At the end of the journey, any proposed investment will be submitted to the Nuclear Provisions Commission for approval. That committee must judge whether that investment is justified, because at the end of the journey the money must be available. There is therefore no point in investing in adventures here and there. I think that the Commission on Nuclear Facilities will think carefully about the possibilities. Then it is strange that this restriction is not there for other sectors. If someone wants to invest money in a palm oil plantation in Malaysia, there is nothing in the draft law on that in itself. If you want to invest in PFOS production at 3M, you can do so according to the bill. Ideologically, we have no problem with that, as long as it's a good investment. Then why tie the knot with nuclear energy? In committee, I have set an example of the contradiction that lies in it. We have a government that wants to make EUR 100 million available to the SCK for research into small, modular reactors. If in the coming years - this story runs to some 2100.... an investment occurs in a company operating in the sector of the small modular reactors, then it is excluded with this design. We must not invest in them, that is wrong. The Minister noted in committee that he did not see the problem, because everything that is currently happening on small modular reactors is done with venture capital. With all due respect, I can imagine that there is also a lot of risk capital in the renewable sector at the moment and that it will be the Commission for nuclear facilities that gives the green light or red light for certain investments. The Minister adds that this is something for billionaires who are bored. It is not entirely clear to me what this has to do with matters. A bad investment in a renewable project is as bad as a bad investment in nuclear facilities for me. A good investment in renewable energy must not appear to be at the same point as a good investment in nuclear technology. I find the way this is going to go a little strange. There is no doubt that I will receive an answer in a moment which is completely beside the issue and which points out to us that people do not believe in these investments. You can. You don't have to. After all, it will be the Commission for nuclear facilities that has to give the green light to ensure that the money is there. That's the whole point. I understand, however, that there are a number of other things that we want to do for ideological reasons. At that time, I tried to amend the draft law with amendments. The majority then agreed that one amendment would be accepted so that the Nuclear Equipment Committee could send its annual report directly to Parliament. In fact, majority consultation has come into play in order to do so. Good, it is a step in the right direction, but perhaps not the most groundbreaking thing we could have done, because my other amendments include other things that could have been considered. However, I understand that it is not so easy to take that step. I have tabled three further amendments on which you will be able to vote later. An amendment aims to bring forward the date to 2025, unless there is an extension. Another amendment concerns the possible investment in nuclear technology. I suppose you're all going to take a good look at that so that we can have a useful vote on it, but I don't have too many illusions in that regard. A number of things could have been better, but overall I think this text is a good step forward. This is in fact very similar to the discussion of the original text in 2003, when no one opposed it either. I think there was one abstinence. This indicates that there is a need to create these facilities in a good way, but also to manage them in a good way. That is what this text does. I think there could have been better things in it, but we can agree with the overall approach. Just as our predecessors did in 2003, we will support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u182	Madam Chair, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what a bill! What a file! I must tell you that in three years, I would not be able to give you another example of a bill that has consequences on time scales as long as this bill on the financing of radioactive waste management and the dismantling of nuclear power plants. It is often forgotten that it is, in the end, the hidden cost of the nuclear industry, in any case civil. It's the cost, the bill for radioactive waste. We have increased from an estimate in 2018 from 3.2 billion euros to 10.7 billion euros. Today, we are even talking about 11.6 billion euros for radioactive waste, almost four times the cost announced just four years ago. The beginning of storage will only begin around 2135. Nor should we forget the cost of dismantling nuclear power plants, which – whether we like nuclear power or not – will come at a certain point in time, and which will also require an unprecedented industrial site on Belgian soil and a budget of more than 6 billion. Taking long-term inflation into account, the total cost of operations is estimated at EUR 41 billion. To give a similar estimate, it is the purchase of Twitter by Elon Musk or the GDP of a state like Tunisia. Be aware of the huge potential impact on public finances and ultimately on the Belgian portfolio! I wholeheartedly and sincerely welcome the enormous work that has been done not only by the minister but also by her cabinet, her administration and by the Committee on Nuclear Supplies (CPN), which we have had the opportunity to hear and question at length in our Committee on Energy, because we have simply known the problem for years. For years this CPN, the Belgian Radioactive Waste Finance Officer, has been sounding the alarm and calling on the legislator to strengthen the legislative framework in Belgium. Today, at last, it's done. The government has done this work which, I said, is colossal. I think it was urgent to grant more guarantees to Belgian taxpayers against the French group ENGIE Electrabel. Indeed, it is a principle which has been approved by the whole committee, since it has voted unanimously in favour of this text. I'm talking about the polluter pays principle. According to this principle, it is out of the question that it is the Belgian taxpayer who has to drink for the financing of the management of radioactive waste or for the dismantling of nuclear power plants. What is important is that this law imposes safety beacons and, in doing so, in some way, life insurance for the Belgian taxpayer. It is a principle of maximum prudence that guides this bill. That is why I do not fully understand the previous speaker. When we talk about SMR, it's not so much an ideological question. It must be noted that today we do not yet have a fully operational chain for the production of RMS. The only example I know is a floating boat off Siberia by the giant Rosatom of nuclear power in Russia. Anyway, I think I can say that everyone here is serious. At present, there is no question of having prudent, safe, 100% guaranteed investments in this research, which is still quite preliminary. It is about securing the future. Because there is no question that in the end, it is the Belgians who must hand over the portfolio to finance the management of this waste over a period of 300 000 years – which is not nothing, ladies and gentlemen. The first obligation is to ask ENGIE to have at least the highest cost of decommissioning nuclear power stations and radioactive waste management as calculated by the Commission for Nuclear Supplies, at least at the present time, of its own funds. For several years, we have known that Synatom has been lending a large part of the funds earmarked to finance the management of radioactive waste and the dismantling of power plants to the group's nuclear operators. I think I can say that today, Synatom is lending almost EUR 8.3 billion. Imagine that this amount will never be repaid to him; it would be, once again, the Belgian taxpayer who would drink, which, for us, is out of the question. The bill now provides that ENGIE will have to pay off Synatom by 2025, which is a good thing. These provisions were paid by the consumer through his electricity bills. For us, and this is a matter of common sense and pragmatism, it is simply not a question of the Belgian taxpayer paying a second time and taking huge risks on the financial soundness of nuclear operators. Perhaps by way of conclusion, Madam Minister, I can see even further, even if I think that this step is not only positive, but necessary and urgent. I know that there is a note on outsourcing in your government's agreement. This is already a huge step forward, but I think that in the long run we may have to think about a legally independent structure of the ENGIE Group, and perhaps also within the public sphere. Again, to guarantee this polluter-pays principle at all costs, without risk recovery. Because we can no longer take risks in the management of these financial funds, which, moreover, agitated the benches of this assembly, a few weeks ago, when ENGIE asked the Prime Minister to cover part of the cost of financing the management of radioactive waste. We have been asking for ten years to strengthen the legal framework. I believe that this is the very first bill that I had the honour to table in this House, with my colleague Tinne Van der Straeten at the time, precisely to provide for these costs related to waste management, but also to dismantling. Today, yes, we must be able to admit it, the minister has worked extremely well. First and foremost, she listened to the experts. Again, we allow something important through this crucial law. I can really insist on that. I am almost astonished that, in the end, this new law is no more in front of the news. This law should be the front page of the news. I sincerely believe that this is one of the most important issues in this Parliament. In fact, we are again talking about EUR 41 billion in the long term. It's obviously huge, huge. Really, thank you for the hard work. I am delighted once again that we can have a very large majority here, and certainly unanimity of all parties, to guarantee in the law and to put into practice the polluter-pays principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be relatively concise, since many things have already been said and it is indeed a text that has been voted unanimously in the Committee on Energy. First of all, I would like to welcome the work that has been done by the Minister. This is a colossal work supported by its departments, administration and cabinet prior to this bill. If it were provided for in the government agreement, this obviously does not detract from the quality and certain ambitions of this text. It is indeed an important text and one must be able to say so. The 2003 Act had already been amended, but it had been almost 12 years since an adaptation of the text was expected to ensure the existence, sufficiency and availability of nuclear supplies at the time when they were to be used. We must measure the relatively important, if not historical, nature of the text we are debating at the moment. This adaptation is all the more expected in view of the fact that by 2025 five of the seven Belgian nuclear reactors should be closed and that the decommissioning of power plants and the management of spent fuels will have to be strictly and fully implemented in accordance with the polluter pays principle. The file inherited by the current government is far from simple. Taking inflation into account, the cost of dismantling is estimated at €7 billion. The management of spent fuel of 33 billion euros, all of which requires work until 2135. It is relatively rare and it is even unique that a Parliament has to project so far in such an abstract way in the future. It is an exercise that is conceptually, intellectually difficult but that we manage to achieve with amounts that are rarely discussed in an assembly like ours. At the same time, the Fund managed by the supply company Synatom amounts to only 14.4 billion, which raises the question of the adequacy of the provisions and more than half of the Fund currently available, 8.3 billion, is the subject of loans to its shareholder ENGIE-Electrabel. At present, these loans are not subject to any guarantee scheme. It's a little delusional, but that's what we discovered when we looked at this file, which leads to certain insecurity given the importance of the means to be deployed. That was the situation the government had inherited. In view of these difficulties, we must welcome more than welcome the bill under consideration, which is the culmination of a long-term work initiated, in part, in 2010 by the then Minister of Energy, Paul Magnette, with the round table on nuclear supplies. This project needs to be welcomed for several reasons. The first is that it strengthens the role of the Nuclear Stockpile Commission, a strategic body, its decision-making and supervisory power and the binding nature of its opinions. More specifically, the CPN will, under certain conditions, have to approve almost all of Synatom's capital operations, including the payment of dividends and the reduction of own funds. It was a bit special that an individual who went to a bank to take out a loan was subject to a whole series of conditions, but none of those conditions applied to Synatom. It was kind of the logic of far west. Secondly, the project establishes a clear, precise and binding framework for the repayment of loans between Synatom and the operator, with the obligation to repay by 2025 for spent fuel and by 2030 for decommissioning. This framework, ladies and gentlemen, is a real assurance. Thirdly, we must stress the more pronounced provisions on the financial responsibilities of the operator, the more explicit descriptions of the penalties incurred in the event of non-compliance with these responsibilities, or the prudential rules on asset placement. Because of all these arguments, our group will once again endorse this text, a text which, for the reasons I have just mentioned, meets the challenges of the situation and is up to these challenges. Of course, I call on my colleagues to do the same, as they did in committee. These provisions must enter into force as soon as possible. You will have understood this, it is a matter of our future, but also – and above all – of the future generations, generations that we understand in an extremely long sense, since we are already talking about the next century.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u184	Madam President, the legislative framework created in 2003 was urgently needed to be renewed. Nor will it be the last change if we want to cover expenditure over the next hundred years. This draft law, which the Minister had anticipated some time ago, has already received a very broad support in Parliament, even though we do not think it is 100% perfect. I believe that everything that has to do with the decommissioning of nuclear power stations and the management of nuclear fuels, and hence the waste, must not be carried by the public. Nor do I think it is normal for the operator to be able to derive as much as 75% of the Synatom Fund to make a number of investments, whereas that savings fund should actually be used for the decommissioning of nuclear power stations and the management of nuclear waste. This will be corrected. I have already made it quite clear in committee that, although most of the capital will be repaid in 2025, there will be an open disk for the last five years until 2030. In my opinion, everything has to be repaid by 2025. There's more than enough money. So the Minister has been remarkably mild. That is why we support the amendments tabled by colleagues from the other parties. Some Members of Parliament in the hemisphere read in the text, in some form of mistrust, evidence as if the operator did not want to pay and wanted to discharge his obligations. It even went so far that the ongoing negotiations on the extension of life were abused to show that ENGIE wanted Electrabel out of its obligations. However, I did not hear that from Thierry Saegeman when he announced at the Nuclear Safety Committee a while ago that he would honour his commitment and fulfil his obligations. I understand, moreover, that the Minister has discussed the preliminary draft with the operator. Good deals make good friends. The debate shows that the Minister is more realistic than her sometimes wild supporters and group here in the Chamber. I find it rather odd that the Minister, while warning in committee that investment in SMRs today is risky and investment for billionaires who are bored, seems to be the dogma that they are more likely to be themselves and many parties in the hemisphere to claim that SMRs exist only on paper, despite the progress made on this matter worldwide, in order to prove the hearings following Mr Wollants's proposal - not so long ago with the Prime Minister at the SCK, who announced that they would invest in research into the SMRs of the future. Actually, she just sold a show. Her coalition partners Open Vld, MR and CD&V weze warned by her statement; they don't have to be under any illusions. Remarkable is the opposition's attitude in the majority, the MR. Mrs Marghem, her predecessor, who is the only one who has not been included in the debate. That's pretty weird, isn't it? Mr Nollet's statement, which linked the life-cycle negotiations to the nuclear commissions, is also striking. I understand, of course, that the nervousness of these negotiations is increasing, Madam Minister, because you yourself have said more often that by 21 July, the start of the parliamentary recess, an agreement with ENGIE Electrabel will have to be reached. So it's starting to shorten. Hopefully the flying atom Georges-Louis Bouchez will last a little longer. Anyway, if I take a look at what happened in Europe last week, I see that Georges-Louis Bouchez' MR voted against the proposal to give nuclear power the green label. In the end, nuclear energy has officially obtained the green label, and I am particularly pleased about that. As you know, I have been an advocate of this in Parliament before. In fact, that vote in the European Parliament made a special comment on your policy. Europe says very clearly that the gas plants you want to build in the future can only be replaced by an even more polluting energy source, which does not turn out to be nuclear, if I have understood the European Parliament correctly. I am reassured that the adequacy of the fund's resources will be properly monitored in the future, but in the end a return of 3.25% is taken into account, which I consider to be extremely high. I said that in committee too. If that return is not achieved and for example there is only 2.8 %, 3 % or any other percent, then that will make a very big difference on the final pot. In committee, you said that the operator would have to pay up if the funds were insufficient. You can say that, but, even though the operator would no longer be an operator in the future, the question is how hard we can make that if ENGIE no longer exists in 50 years' time. Then we cannot knock at the door and say that ENGIE must open the purse to deposit some extra money. It won't work that way. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, we disagree very much in Parliament, but this draft law is something on which we agree, although we have a number of reservations. So you will be able to count on our support today in order to be able to approve the draft unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u185	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the dismantling of Belgian nuclear reactors and the management of irradiated nuclear fuels is indeed a major challenge. First of all, there is the time frame. Decommissioning itself is expected to take some 20 years. The salvage activities start with the construction of a salvage facility. That start is not likely to take place until 2050. So they would end up around 2135. So we are making very important decisions today, which relate mainly to future generations. It is precisely for this reason that we must be extremely careful in this matter. In addition to the time frame, there is also the second aspect, namely the costs and the invoice. The decommissioning costs are almost as hallucinating as the time frame. The cost of decommissioning would be around €8 billion. The cost of managing spent nuclear fuels will amount to EUR 33 billion. So the challenge is indeed huge. One thing is very clear to us. We do not want future generations to be burdened with the financial consequences of choices made by our generation or by previous generations. We must therefore make sure that it is not the taxpayer but the nuclear operator that bears the maximum cost. The principle of 'polluter pays' is also enshrined by law in this draft law. The draft law provides for additional guarantees that the funds necessary for the decommissioning and management of irradiated nuclear fuels are also effectively available. The government must have the necessary guarantees for the existence, adequacy and availability of the equivalent of the nuclear commissions in Synatom. To this end, a number of handles have been included in this draft law. From now on, important capital decisions will have to be submitted to the Commission for approval for nuclear facilities. This would prevent, for example, the core operator from deliberately impoverishing itself in order to escape its financial obligations. The money must also be available in good time. A clear framework has therefore been agreed against when the existing debt towards Synatom has to be fully repaid. Control is also being strengthened, as the Commission's supervision of nuclear facilities is being strengthened. Colleagues, this draft law provides a solid basis for the bill of decommissioning and disposal not to be passed on to future generations. This is an important step, but much remains to be done on waste management. So this is also a warm call for buttons to be cut through. We look forward to the further steps that will be taken and CD&V will fully support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u186	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is a long-awaited draft law that strengthens the legal framework for nuclear commissions. We are, of course, very pleased with this and will support it, because it contains several positive elements. Let me just sum up what's most important to us. The Commission for Nuclear Facilities will be given more independence and control and advisory powers. She will be given the opportunity to impose sanctions. The biggest innovation is undoubtedly that ENGIE Electrabel should be approved by the CNV for certain capital decisions, but I will come back to that later. What is also regulated is the repayment of the loans by ENGIE Electrabel to the Synatom Fund. That is being legally anchored, because it is still amazing that these commissions are being built into the Synatom Fund and that this money then flows back to ENGIE Electrabel as a loan, without any guarantee about the existence, adequacy and availability of those funds. Finally, as long as the loans have not been repaid, the core operator must provide collateral. These are all positive elements that will make us support this bill. However, there are several comments to be made on this draft law. As I explained in detail at the committee meeting, the draft law is moving around the main question, which is whether there is enough money in the Synatom Fund to pay for the decommissioning of power stations and for the disposal of high-level radioactive waste. There are several reasons why there is doubt about this. A first reason is that the reference scenario of the NIRAS still relies on geological storage in the Boom clay. However, this scenario is becoming less and less likely. More and more voices argue for a deeper salvage, for example in the Ieperian clay. Whoever says deeper says more expensive. I have not yet received an answer on the additional costs of that scenario. In committee, you actually avoided that question, Madam Secretary. Another important aspect of the question of whether there is enough money in the Synatom Fund is the inflation and interest rates used. For the geological recovery, an operation that goes on until the year 2135, that is to say 113 years, a minimum of EUR 33 billion is needed according to the NRAS scenario, which I already have questions about. That amount is currently foreseen at EUR 11 billion. Some additional deposits will follow, but the rest, some 22 billion, must come from interest income. That's huge, isn't it? An interest rate of 3.25 % and an inflation rate of 2 % is included. We are currently experiencing exceptional times, but inflation is almost five times higher today, while we can only dream of an interest rate of 3.25 % on the savings notebook. What the future brings is, of course, difficult to predict. In any case, the economic situation does not provide much certainty, so we have serious doubts about the interest rate and inflation used. Madam Secretary, we fear that you, or us as a society, count yourself wealthy. That's not innocent because of course, ENGIE Electrabel is convenient. If we calculate a lower interest rate or take into account higher inflation, possibly more realistic figures, then Electrabel will not only have to repay the money borrowed today, but will have to pay in addition for the nuclear waste and the decommissioning of nuclear power stations. However, the draft law does not say anything about this. In other words, the draft law is certainly a step in the right direction. I would even say that it is a rather big step in the right direction, but it is still insufficient as far as we are concerned. It seems very likely to us that additional capital injections into the Synatom Fund are needed. A number of provisions in the draft law remain too weak as far as we are concerned. Firstly, Mr Wollants has already pointed this out, and ENGIE Electrabel will only have to repay the funds borrowed for decommissioning nuclear power plants by 2030. This is far too late for us, especially now that we know that Electrabel is currently making billions of euros of usury profits due to the high electricity prices, which has often been mentioned here. The company has a huge amount of cash and so the time has come for the refund. According to the newly published financial report, Electrabel made a profit of 1.9 billion euros in 2021. It paid only 3% of taxes, i.e. EUR 61 million. In every household, it is normal that when a lot of money is received, the loans are paid back. This may not be the case in the future with the closure of nuclear power stations. The revenues from electricity sales will then fall. Electrabel must repay the borrowed money for the disposal of nuclear waste by 2025. We see no reason why this should not be the case for the decommissioning loan, even if it is a lower amount. I am particularly concerned about the principle. We have therefore tabled an amendment to allow both loans to be repaid by 2025. We also believe that the thresholds for controlling capital decisions are far too high. Once ENGIE Electrabel has repaid the borrowed money, which is evident in itself, the threshold is EUR 1.5 billion. Colleagues, when ENGIE Electrabel paid EUR 1.2 billion of dividends to the French parent company ENGIE last year, there was widespread indignation, even here in Parliament. This draft law would therefore have been perfectly possible without the Commission's approval for nuclear facilities once the money has been repaid. That is why I am again tabling an amendment aimed at reducing the thresholds for capital decisions by a factor of 5, so that Electrabel cannot be sucked out by the parent company. Madam Secretary, you argued that the amendment was contrary to property law, referring to the opinion of the Council of State. But he just decided that the measure to introduce a control of capital decisions is proportional, just in order to preserve the polluter pays principle. The Council of State does not therefore say that lower thresholds would not be proportionate. Given the great social importance and the real risk that ENGIE Electrabel can still undress, it certainly does not seem unfair to us to lower those thresholds. That is why we are submitting the amendment again. Colleagues, the decision-making procedure in the draft to block capital decisions seems to us to be far too heavy. It takes a two-thirds majority within 30 days to block a capital transfer. If that is not the case, and I quote from the bill: 'the consent is deemed to have been granted'. We have tabled an amendment to reverse that. If no explicit consent is given, then no consent is granted. Then it is not considered that permission has been given. The CNV should also be able to extend the deadline once by 30 days, as is the case for licence applications. It is common practice that a term can be extended once, otherwise it is too easy. Ladies and gentlemen, the improvements we are proposing through three amendments are necessary in order to really safeguard the nuclear commissions and to ensure that the responsibility of ENGIE Electrabel to pay for nuclear waste and for the decommissioning of nuclear power stations cannot be avoided. They are also needed because the polluter would actually pay up to the last penny.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, I can only rejoice that there is broad support. I would like to join Mr Cogolati in congratulating the Minister and her cabinet for presenting this important work. I will talk less about the technical details, but more about the essence. Let's face it, a 20-year-old law deserves at least an update. In this case, it is necessary. Other laws from 2003 deserve an update. Madam Minister, I hope that, as a result of the decisions of 23 December, you will do so transparently, clearly and directly. Why adapt? There are new rules at European level. There have been a number of crises that demonstrate the vulnerability of our financial system. So we're looking at investments a little more closely. The government advocates leaving the core exit after 2025. When that end date comes, whatever that may be, there will be a change in the situation in which the operator will be able to hold the reserves. That is a new context and we must be honest, the landscape of nuclear producers will be changed in the future. I would like to thank ENGIE and Electrabel for the years of good service to provide energy to our country. Today that is still 40 % to 50 %. We're all having a little cramp in the stomach because the prices and profits are so high. Let us be honest, we are a little responsible for that ourselves. We have determined the price mechanisms in Europe and in Belgium. The cut-off on the market is an external factor. I do not entirely agree with Mr Cogolati's somewhat antinuclear activism. Anything that causes waste must know reserves. That will apply tomorrow to batteries and pylons of windmills. It is therefore a good thing that this has been well substantiated here, in a process that effectively consists of different parts and long years. What is important here is that a good partnership means not only good agreements, but also respect for each other. That is why I sometimes find the processes of intention and the great ideological statements less appropriate. This is about decommissioning by the core operator that we want to prevent and safeguard its performance by including a number of capital decisions in a certain approval procedure. That value of the nuclear facilities must be ensured, not only in terms of repayment, but also in terms of security, as long as it is necessary. In addition, the prudential supervision of the committee needs to be strengthened and the rules of corporate governance needs to be adapted. This is a good law, Madam Secretary. The Open Group will, of course, approve this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u188	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago, we held a strong debate in this hemisphere on the millions of euros that ENGIE passed on to its shareholders in Paris. Many colleagues were outraged and feared a scenario in which ENGIE is trying to avoid its responsibility for the future decommissioning of nuclear power plants and the management of nuclear waste. I told the President that we had to ensure that we discussed the Minister's bill as soon as possible and put it to the vote. There has been a hearing before, but it is good that we are adopting this new law today, which strengthens and clarifies the outlines for the management of nuclear waste. Mr Wollants and Mr Warmoes say that the law is a step forward, but I think that does the bill dishonor. After all, this important bill will ensure that we can meet our European obligations to estimate the costs of managing this highly radioactive waste. It also ensures that the polluter pays principle is respected. That is why this bill is so important, and I understand that Mr Cogolati was so enthusiastic in his intervention. This decision precedes other decisions that we will have to take later, including the decision on where the waste will be disposed of. Mrs Dierick was right when she said that buttons still have to be cut. Many colleagues have already discussed the content of the dossier, which is why I will not do so. Let me make a few marginal comments on the dossier. Nuclear waste is, and remains, a particularly serious problem, because the degradation time is estimated at 300,000 years. That is only the waste of an energy production process that transcends a long human life. People born in the 1950s have experienced the construction of nuclear power plants and may also experience their destruction. I sincerely do not know whether the nuclear sector has a future in Belgium. There is indeed a lot going on today, there is a lot on the drawing tables. But is the new generation of power stations a solution? Recent studies have shown that this is not the case with regard to nuclear waste. For example, those small plants to which reference was made require up to five times more fuel. By the way, that was recognized by SCK's top man, so we are still a long way from home. Until that problem is resolved, I do not know whether we will see nuclear energy in this densely populated country in the future. So I do not find it so strange, Mr Wollants, to say that we do not want to invest the funds from this fund, with which we will be managing nuclear waste, in a sector that makes even more nuclear waste. I don't think this is such a illogical choice in itself. Like Mr Van Lommel, I would like to refer to the interesting debate at European level this week on the future of nuclear energy, and in particular on whether nuclear energy is green and sustainable. Let me be clear, this form of production has a number of advantages. The fact that CO2 emissions are low is certainly interesting. After all, we all know that our emissions will soon have to be carbon-neutral. For me, however, green and sustainable also means leaving no trace in our environment. Today we see that in the PFOS dossier, to which you referred, Mr Wollants, and also in the file on heavy metals that are in the ground in the region where I was born and raised. We grew up in the north of Limburg with cadmium in the ground. That's not sustainable. Well, that's where the nuclear waste might end up. We are building structures in that region today which we know can be stored for thousands of years. However, those thousands of years are not enough to provide protection. What comes next, no one knows. All generations that come after us will have to live with the nuclear waste underground, with uncertainty and with the necessary questions about it. I therefore believe, Mr Van Lommel, that you can be green and durable with that official label, but that you will throw the Boom clay at your head if you do so. Is nuclear energy a green and sustainable form of production? I really have my doubts about that. I therefore regret that the European Parliament has approved it in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u189	Mr Verduyckt, do you really believe that nuclear energy is the only source of energy production that produces waste? Have you ever considered what we're going to do with the windmills' wicks? Until today, there is no solution to this. What will happen to the mountains of waste from all the solar panels for which large parks are now being built? After all, all the panels on the roofs, even on yours, become garbage. That's a garbage pile, isn't it? Is all this 100% recyclable? Are you saying that everything that is renewable now does not produce waste? You say we should see what we leave behind for the future if we have to produce energy. That's the same story, but you're not talking about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u190	Mr van Lommel, your speech shows just how little serious you are talking about this matter. You are comparing the pylon of a windmill we have had in our country for 20 years, because that industry, with the waste from nuclear power stations, exists for so long, with a break-down time of 300,000 years. We've had nuclear power plants since the '50s. That's almost three times as long. If you are going to compare such cases, you are not seriously involved. We can say anything in this House, but sometimes you need to think about the things you say.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u191	The problem with the whole energy story is that there are no energy sources or ways of producing energy that have no disadvantages today. Some want the renewable part as much as possible and turn as much as possible against the other part. I understand. However, we must not be blind to the way things are going. Raw materials are also used for wind, sun, etc., for which extraction is also done. You don't want to leave any tracks, but we may not leave those marks here with us, but we will leave them in a number of other places. We have to take that into account. This is also why an extensive environmental impact analysis and life cycle analysis has been carried out for all kinds of different technologies. Nuclear power plants are far better off than other technologies, such as eutrophication, water use and land use impacts. I hear a great deal of criticism of nuclear power plants, but in Europe we seem to be not yet able to make a fist against coal and lignite, for example. The largest radioactive particles in the air released from energy production today stem from the fact that, of course, traces of radioactivity are also present in the coal and lignite layers, which are co-fired. They are not kept at a few hundred meters depths, but go into the air and breathe in you and me; I in Lier, you in the Sahara, in Lommel. So we need to look at the matter a little more broadly and put all things together. However, I strongly believe in the innovation that the SCK is also currently rolling out. As far as the MYRRHA project is concerned, reference is made each time to the lifetime of 300,000 years. It is the current government that agrees, like the previous government, that investing in MYRRHA is a good idea in order to reduce the lifespan of that waste by a factor of 1,000............................................................................................................................................................... The government has enough confidence in that to put money into it. If the Vivaldi government agrees that there is a need to invest in it and if the Michel government did, then it is not about air castles at power points or something like that of the SCK. We must continue on that slope. I think that the eternal contradiction between renewable energy as a good thing and nuclear energy as a bad thing even though it is very amusing that all of us do a little bit of violence to the truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u192	Mr Wollants, that was a good attempt, but you will not hear me say that other forms of energy production have no disadvantages. You compare a sector that has been in existence for 20 years with a sector that has been operating for more than 70 years. Of course, the size of the problems cannot be compared. There is indeed innovation going on. You can refer to the SCK, the SMRs and everything you want, but also in the sectors I have just mentioned, there is innovation going on, and I am sure that solutions can be found there too. You yourself have tabled a resolution to see how we can deal with windmills in the future and what can be done better there. The point I wanted to make is that we have to compare things seriously. It is said that nuclear energy is green and sustainable, but that is not the analysis I make when I look at the nuclear waste. It is even worse: the debate in the European Parliament was not only about whether nuclear energy is green and sustainable, but also whether it is gas, Mr Wollants. You have filled in here against gas plants, but the N-VA in the European Parliament does approve that gas is green and sustainable. Speaking of which...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u193	Mr Verduyckt, I must say something now. What happened in the European Parliament was the question of whether replacing coal or lignite with gas is a good thing. That's what it was about. I do not need to remind you that coal and lignite plants in Europe, largely in Germany, cause more than 20 000 premature deaths every year. And that's not when they're broken. That's not because of a major accident somewhere in the former East Germany. That is when the power stations do what they have to do, namely to make energy and spout substances into the air. That's what this is about. I have to say that you are a member of a government that does not say: 'We are going to replace coal with gas because it reduces CO2 emissions and produces less fine dust'. The current government says: 'We are going to replace nuclear power stations with gas!' After all, you thought that was a sustainable alternative. If we switch from coal to gas and the European Parliament thinks this is a good idea, you call it a disgrace, but if the current government decides not to replace nuclear power stations that emit CO2 and do not emit air pollution with plants that emit CO2, that is a top idea for you and you want to do so. That is, frankly, very inconsistent. So if you think you have some lessons to teach on that basis, I suggest you set up a chair for it or something like that. But it doesn't take. It's not consistent. So stop it!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u194	Mr Wollants, you may try to call me inconsistent. During the previous legislature, you said in the newspaper that we needed nine gas plants. During the current legislature, however, you are opposed to gas plants. That's inconsequential.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u195	(...) In which newspaper did you read that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u196	You know the articles very well. After all, we have referred to it many times. Mr Wollants, for me it's just about the next question. When I get the question of whether gas is green and sustainable, for me the answer is always no, under whatever circumstances. You know very well why the gas plants are being built in Belgium. This is because there has been insufficient investment in renewable energy in the past and we will need the flexible production of the gas plants to get where we want to go, namely in a production market dominated by renewable energy. That's what this is about. You know that very well. However, that was not your party's concern. It was your party's job to convince the Minister of the wise in that whole discussion about nuclear and gas power plants. You know that very well. It's that inconsistency I wanted to remind you of.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u197	Mr Verduyckt, you really are making it up on the spot. You know as well as I do that the whole gas plant plan is based on the capacity mechanism and you also know how solar panels and windmills count in it. The capacity of the solar panels counts for 4% of the capacity. Do you have any idea how many solar panels one must have to have enough power in winter, when it is cold and dark? I think the Crystalpark III is actually still small beer. That story doesn't add up. We are in a situation today where we have very little production in the field of renewable energy at times. That's the way it is. If there is little wind and it is dark at night, then we have very little renewable energy from that side. Now you can say that we need more of it. Occasionally, the counter stands at 40 or 50 megawatts. Should we have 10 times more solar panels, or 100 or maybe 1,000? What exactly do you expect in that respect? If you want to convince the people that by installing more windmills and solar panels we will not need gas plants, then you know as well as I do that you are telling people something. In every scenario we need things that can be controlled and nuclear power stations can be controlled. One can make it work when one wants it to. That is also why Elijah said in her calculations that nuclear power stations, instead of the 4% for solar panels, may count at 96 %. That's a big difference, isn't it? If you say here that if the previous government had done more in the field of renewable energy, this problem would not have been there, it would not have been. This government claims to be the greenest government ever to commit massively to renewable energy. This legislature will have opened only windmills which were set in motion in the previous legislature. It is only in 2028 that this government's first additional renewable energy will be added.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u198	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, your discussion may be interesting, but besides the issue. This draft law deals with the necessary commissions, the money, the decommissioning of nuclear power stations and the management of nuclear fuels. I would ask you to keep the debate pure so that we can get to the heart of the matter without dragging everything that does not matter in this one.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u199	Mrs Buyst, I understand your point, but this week in the European Parliament we were talking about a green label for nuclear energy and nuclear waste, which I consider relevant in this discussion. That is why I would like to respond to what Mr Wollants said before deciding. Mr. Wollants, your knowledge of my city is great, and that surprises me very much. You also know a great deal about the energy sector. However, it is silly to say that we should not have invested in renewable energy by now, because we still need gas or nuclear power plants. You know it's much more complex. These include storage, interconnectivity and demand management, many things on the edge of the production market, where renewable energy is central. These elements will ensure that energy will indeed be very decisive for our production market in the future. For me, it always comes across as part of a political game to destroy the Minister of Energy. That didn't happen in this file. The Minister presented these draft laws to Parliament. So today we are creating a framework to clarify the costs of nuclear waste. On behalf of our group, I have always put forward the principle that the polluter pays as an important principle. That is what I hear from many groups here, and it is also the common thread of the draft law. Madam Minister, we will vote for this legislation with great conviction. We thank you for your work, also to ensure that this difficult but very important discussion remains in the ongoing negotiations on the extended opening time of the two youngest nuclear power plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u200	It is said here that we should keep the debate hygienic and that we should confine ourselves to the subject. However, it is always the case that when someone from my group says something else, Mr Verduyckt must always look for something to say that we do not know our file. Even today, although we were positive, we will support the bill and we made just a few comments, that was the case. I have to listen to that every time, when you didn't say anything about the design. Only at the end when you said that you were going to decide did you say two sentences about the draft. For the rest, you were just cutting off the opposition, as always. I was positive once today and said that I disagreed with the Minister on a great deal, but that we would support unanimity today. However, that was not good for Mr Verduyckt. Come on, what are we doing?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u201	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my group will endorse and obviously vote for this text. I too would have a lot to say about comparing energy sources, about the current negotiations with ENGIE, about the real concerns we have about supply after 2025. But, sincerely, let us agree, this is not the subject of today! Here, we agree, the federal government has taken the necessary steps to strengthen the legal framework for nuclear supplies and this issue is of considerable importance downstream because it is about having the best guarantee for the availability of the necessary funds. It is a part of the government agreement that receives full implementation and one can be pleased - I am glad - that it has, beyond the little controversy that always surrounds this subject, a very broad consensus. It is essential that the nuclear operator fulfil its financial obligations, namely the full cost of dismantling nuclear power plants and managing spent fuel and spent fissile material. It must be the operator who bears these costs, not the citizen, especially in the interests of future generations. We agree with the guiding principles of the bill, the three main ones of which seem to guarantee a sustainable system so that the operator assumes his responsibilities and cleans up his own facilities and that any bankruptcy is avoided, a hypothesis that would make the ONDRAF responsible for the clean-up and dismantling. The scheme, i.e. the repayment of loans constituting the equivalent of the provisions for spent fuel and the repayment for 2030 of loans constituting the equivalent of the provisions for dismantling, is now enshrined in the law and is to be welcomed. Similarly, it is important, in terms of good governance and more transparent public management, that the funds that currently constitute the counterpart of nuclear installations and dispersed mainly in Luxembourg be collected in a Belgian sicav. As critical as we are when there are things to be criticized, all we can do here is to encourage and congratulate the government and those who supported it on this necessary and indispensable text. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u202	Minister, we will support the bills presented here. This represents long-awaited progress. I will recall how important the technical expertise and the work of the administrations are. The current situation still makes me link this dossier to the extension of the nuclear power plants, but the colleague from Groen does not want us to talk about other issues. Everything is connected since there is a particular interlocutor here. Minister, I heard you explain your bill on the radio this morning. There is sometimes a mismatch between what is said by government partners. We will remember the release of the president of the MR who had launched an ultimatum by saying that if you did not reach an agreement with ENGIE on the extension of the nuclear by the beginning of July, he would consider that you are no longer in charge of this matter. Minister, after hearing from you this morning, everyone was able to read the minister's tweet that was in your place a short time ago, Ms. Marghem. I quote: "This minister is becoming increasingly dogmatic. One, she says counter-truths about our reactors. Two, she is not making any progress in negotiations with ENGIE. Three, it complicates the negotiations by postponing the Belgian decision on the treatment of radioactive waste B and C by two years". I see that it amuses you, but in this majority, you should be attentive to the signals sent after this governmental cacophony on such a fundamental subject as energy. Citizens' confidence in reading and rereading these exchanges of politeness between the parties that are in control. Yet we know how important it is to have a clear vision of energy, as well as stability and security for investment. We have to acknowledge here that there is still no agreement on a major energy issue – especially in the area of security of supply – on prices that are correct for the citizens – we see how high these prices have been in recent months and are likely to rise further – and on prices that are sustainable for the competitiveness of our businesses and, consequently, for employment. I would therefore like to repeat, Madam Minister, how urgent it is to reach a conclusion on this issue. Of course, these negotiations are not easy, I will admit, but the government has stood at the foot of the wall by itself, you have stood at the foot of the wall on your own, and it is now up to you to get out of it, not only for the issues that I have just recalled, but also for the benefit of citizens, businesses and therefore of employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u203	It's 7:30. The machines have been running since noon, and the services are urgently asking me to take a technical break, which I suggest you do before you hear the minister and the various replicas, in order to avoid the interruption of our recordings.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u204	I have listened very carefully to all my colleagues. I have also heard a number of things that I had already heard in committee. Mr Verduyckt, I also think the debate on taxonomy in the European Parliament is important. Mrs Fonck, it is true that a lot of subjects are connected. However, I believe that holding a debate purely contributes to the value of that debate. That is why I would like to confine myself to what we are talking about here today, the draft law before us. This design is a historical file. Mr Cogolati has already said it, it should even be front page news because the file dates from 2003. That's my eldest son's birth year, too. So that was a long time ago. It is about the costs involved in the use of nuclear energy, which may be too much under the radar. This law is 20 years old and even after the 2008 crisis it has not been updated. This law regulates matters for our children and great grandchildren, for the generations that come after us. Despite the fact that Mr Cogolati has already expressed our group's view, I thought it was important to take the floor. Madam Minister, I would also like to thank you, your cabinet and the administration for what is going on here today, because this bill is reflected in the law that pays the polluter. I know that Mr Leysen said a few weeks ago that I had not listened properly during the hearings. I would like to contradict that, because I have listened very carefully. It is about an invoice of EUR 41 billion at the end of the journey, if inflation is included. That's what I said. That's why this is such an important bill. This bill is about a lot of money, and we want to show that the costs are to be paid by the polluter. That improvement is important. I will not repeat what Mrs Dierick has already said about the points that it contains, namely the capital decisions that need to be judged by the Commission on nuclear facilities or the fees that have now been lent that have to be repaid. I have one more question. I hear that a number of groups find it odd that this 1.8 billion is out until 2030. I may have misunderstood, but in my view they link that to the fact that there may not be enough revenue left. That doesn't matter, does it? The consumer has already paid that tax. Whether there is sufficient income or not, ENGIE should simply repay it. I think that's a weird link. I am not the expert on the matter, but it is quite logical that something we have already paid, which the consumer has already paid and which has now been lent, should be repaid to the State. I think that's only logical. I decide. This bill is very important. It is a first, very important step in concreteising the polluter pays principle. Although the federal decommissioning task force discusses the extent to which certain elements can be circularly deployed, the circular economy has been addressed far too little in this discussion, but I will confine myself to the core of the debate, not everything will be circularly deployed. The nuclear fuels will have to be managed. That bill will be paid. This draft law concretes these things, and that is why, as Mr Cogolati has said, our group will be happy to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u205	Mrs Buyst has asked a question, I suspect in order to understand it better. I see that the PVDA colleague is not present at the moment, so I feel the need to go into that. The reason why I'm making the link is not because I don't think it should be repaid, but because the guarantees are much greater that it will be repaid quickly when it comes to revenue. That's my point. If a certain loan is to be repaid from a company and it is known that the income of that company is going to fall, then it is strange to allow that loan to last longer. That is the only consideration I have made, and that is why I made that remark both here and in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u206	Let us agree that this EUR 1.8 billion must be repaid. No matter what. I find making that link strange because for me this is not related to the company's income. The loan has to be repaid anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-07-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip192x.u207	I suggest you take a technical break. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, July 7, 2022 at 8 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 7 July 2022 at 8 p.m.
