ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u1	Mr Demon apologized.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u2	Mr President, that is a pity, because I asked him the question rather than the Minister, because we ourselves took a legislative initiative on 22 December 2021. A few months later, the CD&V fraction did exactly the same thing. You can rest assured that in the meantime both groups have also had a joint discussion with the football association. Interesting things have emerged in this regard. The union representatives found very strong points in both our proposal and the CD&V proposal. So it was my question to Mr Demon to sit together again, to work together. The Minister himself, of course, has very little to do about this. The questions I am asking today are rather about the status of stewards, volunteers who earn EUR 35 at a time. So, Mr President, I would very much like to refer to the six questions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u3	Mr Metsu, I should like to point out to you that no reference can be made to the questions tabled when an oral statement is also made. So I'm afraid you'll have to ask the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u4	Mr President, I am happy to do so, which is no problem at all. Firstly, Madam Minister, are you aware of the growing shortage of stewards and other security officers? Secondly, have you already had talks with the stewards or their representatives about the increasingly violent context in which they have to work? What conclusions have been drawn from these talks? What actions have been proposed for the future? Thirdly, stewards and security officers are complementary to police officers during football matches and events. They both have an essential role in maintaining public order in and around the football stadium but have different powers. The stewards are now asking for more powers, such as searching supporters instead of carrying out superficial checks. How do you feel about that question? Do you intend to extend their powers? If so, in what way and on what time do you intend to do so? Fourthly, are you working with internal or external partners in this area to promote the safety of the stewards and the security services? If so, which partners do you work with? Fifthly, what initiatives do you intend to take in order to improve safety prevention and repressive during football matches? When can we expect these initiatives? Sixthly, do you discuss this with your international colleagues? Is there a partnership? Recently, a newspaper report has been published from you which has already referred to certain initiatives. So I'm just asking for an update.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u5	Mr Metsu, I cannot, of course, answer Mr Demon's questions. We are indeed working on safety at football stages. I cannot do that alone; that must be done together with all the partners, both the football world and all the public actors. Everyone must do this from their own roles and powers. We have drawn up this plan together in response to incidents that have taken place in the last season. As we also announced at the presentation of that plan, this will be rolled out gradually. Some aspects require regulatory intervention. It must also be aligned with European regulations, such as the use of cameras with respect for privacy. In that plan, we want to work with three principles. First of all, we want to increase the chances of getting caught, including with cameras and thorough controls. Secondly, there will be a better and faster sanctioning and follow-up of the rioters, so that they know their sanction more quickly. In addition, there will also be a uniform approach to incidents in all Belgian stadiums. After all, we know that there is some diversity today. For this we are going to set up a monitoring and evaluation committee in which the Pro League and the Football Federation play a role. Of course, there is also an important role for the local level. They can further concreteise the actions for a particular stadium, together with the police and the other security actors. As far as your questions about the stewards and security officers are concerned, it is indeed important to protect them better. As I have said so many times here, violence against people with safety professions and therefore also against stewards and other aid workers cannot be accepted. That is why we want to change the penal code and I will also propose an amendment to the football law. On my proposal, there will also be a penalty increase if violence is used against security personnel. This is in line with the proposal put forward by Mr Demon. In addition, we want to ensure that access control is improved, including with KB ticket management, where people with stadium bans can no longer get access tickets. They are then identified in a database, including for subscriptions. There is no way of circumventing sanctions. We also want to help the stewards with better technology, including high-quality cameras for identification. This must, of course, be in line with European privacy rules. That is where things have to be coordinated. In addition, it is necessary to be able to effectively check the name on the ticket during access control. This way, people with a stadium ban can't get into the stadium. The extension of the privileges of the stewards should be a relief here. That's definitely what we want to do. Within the current rules, a thorough fouille by the security personnel is difficult. That is a police authority, which cannot be assigned to stewards. There too, we will have to consider whether we can manage access control by other means, for example with registered tickets. We also want to increase sanctions for other categories of infringements, such as violence, racism and discrimination, but also the illegal use of pyrotechnics. That's what we want to work on. Finally, the phenomenon of football violence can also be identified in other countries. That's what we saw last weekend in France, where it went all the way. In this context, we are particularly working on research in the Benelux context. We also discuss with our Dutch colleagues the cross-border stadium ban. Football hooligans travel for special matches. There is even exchange of information but also of tickets within the ultra-supporters groups of football clubs, also cross-border. We must therefore first of all work on the exchange of information across national borders. We are working on this, but we need to be able to share the systems and databases with each other. However, I can absolutely confirm that we are also taking this up internationally.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u6	At least I thank the Minister for the ambition. I heard her clearly say that there will be a proposal from her cabinet. Maybe that's why it's in a bit of a mess in the area of legislative proposals. As long as the problem is solved, that's by far the most important thing. I'd like to encourage some sense of urgency. The football season is over. Let's not let this go to waste during the recess, but let's do it over the next few months. For example, the beginning of the next football season can be a celebration again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u7	Mrs. Matz and Mrs. Chanson apologize.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u8	Madam Secretary, I read with increasing amazement in an article in Het Nieuwsblad that shipping police will be able to carry out fewer patrols through savings in federal police. Apparently, only during office hours should there be patrolling in the port of Antwerp, overtime should be kept to an absolute minimum and weekend services will also be cut. It goes without saying that this will result in fewer patrols, making targeted operations in the fight against drug trafficking de facto impossible. The police unions are rightly displeased with these savings and even speak of the bankruptcy of the federal police. Will you have it verified who approved these instructions? Will you give instructions to the Commissioner-General to withdraw these instructions immediately? Will you ensure that the operation of the shipping police is supported as much as possible? How will you do that, or what have you done by now? Do you recognise that it is too crazy to say that the shipping police can only patrol the port of Antwerp during office hours? After all, night and weekend patrols are essential, both for deterrent and prevention, in order to be able to combat drug trafficking in the port of Antwerp with maximum efficiency. The annual report of the EU Drugs Agency shows that the port of Antwerp plays a central role in the European drug market. What are the main conclusions that you take from that report and what concrete actions will you launch in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u9	Mr Depoostere, it is the police that observe the services of the police in the ports and on navigable waterways, inland waterways, and that in all waters belonging to the jurisdiction of Belgium. The shipping police in Antwerp monitors both the port of Antwerp and the navigable watercourses of the provinces of Antwerp, Limburg, Flemish Brabant, East Flanders and the capital. From this role, the shipping police in Antwerp provide support on drug cases to the judicial police in Antwerp and to customs. The judicial police direct the judicial investigations of the criminal organizations in the port. So they certainly don't work alone. People always work multidisciplinaryly together. In the port of Antwerp, the shipping police still carry out daily targeted patrols on the hotspots in the port, both on land and on water, on public places and on all roads. They do that with intervention teams, but also with other teams of support. I can confirm that all obligations and legal orders of the shipping police, including in Antwerp, are still carried out on site, both during the day and at night and during the weekends. It is true that a number of additional actions, in addition to legal tasks, have decreased during the weekend and at night, without prejudice to legal obligations and assignments. You may also know that the fight against production has been included in the new national security plan as one of the priorities of the FGP, focusing on large-scale imports and exports of cocaine, heroin and cannabis, but also on commercial cannabis production and production and trafficking of synthetic drugs. Particular attention will be paid to national and international cooperation, as well as new technologies and a perpetrator, group and spoiled approach. As I said earlier, the federal police are clearly using a multidisciplinary approach to drug crime. In recent years, many initiatives have been taken to tackle organised drug crime more efficiently and more thoroughly. Cooperation is taking place to improve the security of the most vulnerable areas, such as the port of Antwerp. As far as Antwerp is concerned, the actions also fit in with the Stroomplan, which is based on an integrated and integrated approach. The Prosecutor of the King of Antwerp coordinates the Stroomplan. Similar initiatives are being taken for the port of Ghent and there is international cooperation between the port of Antwerp and, inter alia, the ports of Rotterdam and Hamburg. The actions of the Streamplan are specifically focused on the problems in the Antwerp region. It is a strategic plan aimed at cooperation and a focus on a 360 degree approach to crime. The strategic objectives that are being implemented are as follows. A first objective is to reduce the flow and import and transit of cocaine through the port of Antwerp, which, of course, has an impact on secondary phenomena, such as the undermining crime. A second objective is to reduce illegal power bases in the Antwerp region which originate in activities linked to drug trafficking. We believe that this phenomenon can be further combated through the Streamplan and the multidisciplinary cooperation between different administrations. This is not only the task of the Antwerp shipping police, but also of all other services, such as the FGP, the local police, customs, and should also be done in cooperation with the companies in the port area and through international cooperation, to which I referred.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u10	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. Of course, I do not deny that there is a need for a multidisciplinary approach involving the various services, not least the judicial police themselves, which initiates investigations as initiator. The shipping police must play a supporting role in this. From your reply, I remember in particular that the shipping police, which, with its supporting role, only carries out the statutory tasks, confines the tasks to the minimum minimum. You say that it is only about additional actions that would have been reduced at night and at weekends. It remains unclear to me what additional actions you specifically have. You also refer to the Stroomplan of Antwerp, on which the Attorney General of Antwerp is in charge. Now it is a coincidence that the same attorney-general of Antwerp made a strong plea at a hearing in our Committee on Home Affairs. I am euphemistically expressing myself for more resources, not only funds but also more men, for dealing with all this organized crime. In particular, the port of Antwerp is about drug trafficking. Even the competent agency of the European Union refers to the port of Antwerp in its annual report as a major hub in Europe of a strong drug trade, which we must nevertheless tackle. That will only succeed if you effectively respond to the distress call of several prosecutors. The port of Ghent, which you also mentioned, also calls for additional resources, modernisation and manpower to combat drug trafficking. I hope and trust that you will be able to rectify all of this, so that we can report positively on the good and efficient fight against drug trafficking.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u11	Mr President, this is a generic title that I repeat on every question. I might as well call my questions "the traffic of art and antiquities". Minister, we are once again in this debate. I feel like since my first question, it's kind of the myth of Sisyphus. I push my stone to the top of the hill, then, after the debate and the answer, the stone falls back into the bottom and we have to start over again. This cycle seems infinite. I honestly feel like we're turning around in this case and I would really like to break this vicious circle. Many questions have been asked. We had a debate in plenary in which you took a fairly firm and fair position. There was the statement of the president of the College of Attorneys General on this Art and Antiquities cell. Hearings were held on the means of the police in general, and of the Federal Judicial Police in particular. The problem is not only in Belgium. From the beginning, it has been said that the problem is international and that there is trafficking. The newspaper Libération devotes several pages to an interesting article entitled "The traffic that makes museums tremble". We're talking about art thefts at the Louvre Museum. In view of the situation, there is therefore a need for a concerted response at European and international level. In particular, on 30 March you replied that the procedures were still well carried out by the local or federal police services. Further on, you were talking about integrated police. Again, local police can contribute to some field investigations, but they do not have the expertise. The only solution for me is a cell with expertise at the level of the Federal Judicial Police with coordination and monitoring of the ARTIST database at the international level and coordination of investigations at the international level. We're still at this point. In the meantime, the question having been postponed the last time, Mr Mestdagh, the President of the Royal Chamber of Antiquaries of Belgium, also called for the reopening of this cell by saying that for the moment there was a suspicion on everyone of antiquaries. He called for investigations to be conducted and for the identification of those who commit misconduct. Minister, my questions are recurring. Since our last exchange, what are the real means for the Federal Judicial Police to combat trafficking in works of art and antiquities? It is about replacing two officers, one of whom is not yet retired and could train one of the two new recruits. Follow-up is still possible. What measures do you intend to take to make the fight against trafficking in works of art effective? You mentioned having contacts with the Commissioner General. Have you convinced him to devote the necessary resources to this cell?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u12	Mr President, Madam Minister, my colleague is talking about the myth of Sisyphe and the hill he wants to climb with his rock.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u13	It's just a metaphor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u14	Yes, absolutely. I feel like my hill is even higher because I've been working on it for six years. For the past six years, the problem has not been resolved. On February 3, I was questioning you in plenary session. You were replying to me in the voice of your colleague Van Peteghem that this decision, which you attributed to your administration, was inappropriate. You added that you were going to have this decision overturned. It's four months later. Since then, various investigations have confirmed Belgium's role as one of the nerve centres for illegal trafficking in antiquities in Europe. In this regard, I invite you to read the excellent investigation by journalist Frédéric Loore in the Paris Match of 7 April, which explains in particular the smuggling routes between Lebanon and Belgium in respect of works stoned in favour of the Arab spring and which finance the armed groups involved in the conflicts that have been bloodshed in the Middle East for a decade. According to my information this cell Art and Antiquities, that your predecessor M. De Crem had already promised to restore and strengthen in the light of our international obligations, is still not restored. No stolen items are registered in the ARTIST database anymore and therefore no INTERPOL reports can be issued for a stolen Belgian art object. One example among others: after the floods of last year, the diocese of Liège noticed that several religious objects had disappeared from the churches of the disaster areas. These objects are no longer recorded in this database and therefore no means of tracing are possible. The so-called artcrime phenomenon (the traffic in works of art) is no longer followed in any way by a central service, not even in a strategic way. This is a serious failure of the State. Where are you, Madam Minister, in rebuilding a centralized capacity to combat this form of crime that thrives in Belgium, fuels mafia and wars and destroys heritage treasures in our country and abroad? Since when is the ARTIST database no longer completed? Does the new National Security Plan (NSP) provide that the fight against crime related to the trafficking of works of art will be well carried out by the Federal Judicial Police Directorate?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u15	Madam Secretary, I will be less emotional than my two predecessors. In February 2022 it became known that the cell Art and Antiques would no longer be manned. This is a consequence of the fact that your predecessor, then Minister Jambon, dismantled the cell and that the last police officer involved in art crime retired. The ARTIST database, in which all stolen artifacts were processed, is no longer completed. Before the cell was phased out, 6 to 7 % of the cases were solved, while this is not happening anymore. Internationally, too, our country suffers from this. Artcriminals are currently being given free rein in Belgium. We cannot allow our country to become the turntable of the international art heist whether or not it already is. Are there any plans to rebuild the Art and Antiques cell? Has there been a vacancy for that yet? If so, has it been filled out yet? Will the ARTIST database be updated and kept up-to-date? I hear you've asked the Federal Police Commissioner General to review the suspension of the cell. Is the Commissioner-General prepared to do so and has an evaluation been carried out? In 2020, your predecessor Pieter De Crem announced that he will resurrect the cell of Art and Antiques. Is that what you intend to do?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to point out that the operational process, particularly the judicial process, concerning the matter remains carried out by both the local and the federal police services. The same applies to the exchange of information at international level. The ARTIST database has not been completed since 1 January, but the facts relating to art and antiquities are still recorded in the general national database. As described in the National Security Plan 2022-2025, theft of works of art and antiques is, in principle, part of the basic police function. In other words, it is the local police that registers complaints, organizes neighbourhood investigations, conducts information or judicial instructions. The Federal Judicial Police may make information or judicial instructions at the supra-local level for groups of organized and itinerant authors, depending on the decision of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Since the letter I sent to the Commissioner General, I have consistently called for a definitive solution within the Federal Judicial Police, although it is rather a matter of judicial missions. The federal judicial police have now identified staff who have the qualifications to be part of the Arts and Antiques cell. I asked that a statutory solution be found immediately, so that a specialised staff member will be seconded in the next few days to re-enable the Art and Antiques cell, without prejudice to the ongoing efforts that are being made today, such as the inclusion in the ANG. That person will be assisted by another staff member, who will be responsible for the technical management of the database in addition to the current regular tasks. In addition, it is currently being considered to strengthen the cell with another member with specialized skills coming from another component of the federal police.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u17	Minister, let's say it's a response that's kind of sibyllin, as they say. You tell us that we are able to fulfill the missions concerning the traffic of works of art. But in fact, it seems to me very unbelievable. When one does not have a national respondent, when one entrusts research and investigation work to local police that do not have expertise in the field, when one cannot put it back in a national database, when one cannot effectively dialogue with the international community, it is very difficult to believe that there are no difficulties. You have admitted that the ARTIST database has not been completed since 1 January. I note, as good news, that you want to rebuild this team, with three people. I hope that will be done very quickly. A priori, it's an interesting announcement. When can this team be set up and operational? For now, it's more like storing on the bookcase of promises. We have received many for years concerning this Art and Antiquities cell. I take note, and I'll come back to you. I remember Mr. De Crem had said that three people were clearly insufficient in relation to the importance of matter. I hope this cell will be operational again as soon as possible. One person is there but no longer works on these files, which does not bode well for the service's interest in these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u18	Madam Minister, I understand that there will be more resources and postings and so on. I therefore do not understand the reactions of the two previous speakers. I heard your answer in French. My French is quite good and it was very clear. So I don't understand why there's such a disappointment now that you're working on this. Maybe it's me. I look forward to further growth and complementing it with the necessary people. There have never been more than two or three people in it either. So we cannot expect you to suddenly put ten people there. There is a growth path and I am confident that this path of growth will be followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u19	Debates of the European Parliament 55027870C and 55027872C by Mrs Chanson are converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u20	Madam Minister, during an interim event of the States General of the Police, the SEGPOL, on 12 May, a number of interim recommendations were made for a modern and dynamic police operation. You participated as a minister, along with me and a number of other colleagues from our committee. Under the umbrella of this SEGPOL, the non-profit organisations Circle of Police Leadership Belgium, the Centre for Police and Security and the Centre d'études sur la Police, the Integrated Police and the Home Office have reflected in a number of working groups over the past year on the current and future challenges for the police. You yourself attach great importance to this SEGPOL. Who consolidates or coordinates the various activities of all these enthusiastic, involved organisations and people in the field? Do you take the lead in this? What role does your cabinet play in this? A number of reflections have been made, including by former Commissioner-General Koekelbergh and Mr Van Steenwinckel, Director of Logistics of the local police Antwerp. Are the reflections of these people supported by your cabinet? In the SEGPOL I missed a contribution on the lack of resources and capacity for the Federal Court Police pillar. That did not come up at that SEGPOL, which surprised me, since the day before a first hearing took place with a number of prosecutors, who were, after all, incredibly in need of doing something about it. It seemed to me an opportunity to comment on this during the SEGPOL. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. Maybe this will come at a later date. A study by Professor Janssens, who has also spoken, shows that the scale increase in local police areas will increase the quality of service. He made a very clear plea for this. Only one merger took place in Wallonia. How do you estimate the further mergers? Will voluntary mergers be used there, or will the way of the obligation be taken? A number of actions were developed on citizens' rights and duties during police interventions. I repeat my plea here, Madam Secretary. However, the other side should also be stressed, in particular the respect for aid workers and policemen. Are projects planned for this purpose? Finally, do you think you can land in the spring of 2023? It seems to me to be a very long period. Is it possible to speed this up? Do you intend to accelerate this process or to work in stages?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u21	Mr President, Madam Minister, in your General Policy Note of 2022, you stated that: "The General States of the Police were launched in 2021. As part of our missions, we have already included four themes on the agenda for 2021-2022, namely, the revision of local police funding and the optimal scale of local police areas, the harmonization of strategic plans for different levels of police and security power, a long-term vision of police education and a new disciplinary law. In 2022, we will also look at the topics that stakeholders want to highlight." Six months later, Minister, can you provide me with the status and agenda of these General States and the working groups that make up them? Regarding more specifically the working group looking at the optimal scale of the zones, can you tell me whether the federated entities are associated with it? If this is not the case, why? Will they be in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u22	Colleagues, I have already said that this is a bottom-up project in which a number of non-profit organisations have taken the initiative, but now key partners and other stakeholders are also encouraged to consider the future of the police. Following the activities they have organised over the last few months and will organise in the coming weeks, the first reflections on their work were given at the mid-term event on 10 May. In doing so, we found that these partners certainly do not lack enthusiasm and commitment, but to make a precise blueprint for the police of the future it will be necessary to continue working and to continue to make and pool further reflections. In the spring of 2023, we want to be able to go further with more concrete recommendations in order to get an idea about the future of the police. I would like to call once again for the substance of this work, because the greater the support, the greater the success of the SEGPol and the faster we can move forward. Meanwhile, the services, the GPI, the coordination committee, the VCLP and the federal police are also continuing their work. The end of the SEGPol will not be the end of the process of profound reflections that is now being started. It is not the intention to do a quick patch-up with this SEGPol, but rather to lay the foundations for the future, and we certainly want to take the concerns of the base with us and not just to work top-down. On 10 May, an update was made, inter alia, on work related to police funding on the optimal scale of police areas. As for the local police, a multidisciplinary commission was established last year. Before it renders its findings, it should carefully examine the basic functions of the police. A working group had been established for that purpose. Its first recommendations were also presented on 10 May. It hopes to conclude its work this summer. Following the conclusion of the work of the working group on basic features, the work of the working group on the optimal scale of police areas will be launched. Just as they will be in the multidisciplinary commission "Financing and Scale", the federated entities will be represented by liaison officers. With regard to the scale of the police zones, research has continued on the police zones that have already merged. To repeat violence, we do not, of course, tolerate any kind of aggression against policemen because they are responsible for the welfare and protection of our society. To this end, we launched the Mutual Respect campaign in 2021. Part of that campaign was to provide information to citizens about the various safety professions, including the police. The campaign focused on connection as the way to increase trust between citizens and safety professions, by engaging in dialogue again. We are convinced that strengthening trust will increase respect, which can also have an impact on combating violence against policemen. However, I certainly agree with you that this is not the end of the story and that it should also be sanctioning, acting and sending a clear message to people who commit such crimes. Last week we had the Mutual Respect Conference in the Atomium, with a representation of all safety professions. In doing so, we have detected as an additional work point that we will launch an action on mutual rights and obligations during interventions by safety professionals. There is also the campaign on social media Eye in sight. There is also a brochure with information on the safety professions. These initiatives should also contribute to strengthening mutual trust. As part of the campaign, we also launched in 2021 the project The Rookies, which specifically aims to strengthen the link between police and young people, whereby young people learn more about the work of the various services through numerous initiatives. As you know, in order to improve the relationship, we have also launched the Child Test Working Group, which is examining police processes on the basis of a number of coordinated national enforceable measures. For the scale of police zones, we will make an evaluation of the ten fusion routes already completed. The evaluation will be conducted under the direction of IDEA Consult and the University of Ghent. What is already apparent from the evaluation is that there is a clear added value, including in the field of services, which also confirms the conclusion drawn from previous scientific studies on the subject. For other aspects, such as specialisation, reduction of charges and cooperation between police and the police, the results of this evaluation also indicate a positive evolution in the merger of police zones. It therefore seems logical that in the future more police zones will take the step towards a merger and that we will work on this in order to further optimise the provision of services to citizens. With regard to the questions on the budgetary situation at the FGP, I refer to the committee meeting on 15 June. Mr Depoostere, the feedback and the first reflections we received the day after the hearing were, of course, not discussed immediately afterwards. That was not on the agenda either, but it is obvious to me that this will be taken into account in the further work of the States-General. The timing now happened to coincide, because that event in Kortrijk had been planned for some time to coincide with the Infopol trade fair. Of course, one doesn't have to rule out the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u23	Madam Minister, I am pleased that one does not exclude the other and that we will certainly come back to the financing of the FGP. I was there myself and noticed the enthusiasm and involvement of many different non-profit organisations and police forces, but what I noticed - I do not know if you have noticed - is that there are two different visions in this country. The vision in Flanders is at odds with that in Wallonia. I'm declaring myself. One of the biggest restructurings of the police landscape will be the scaling-up, the redevelopment of police zones. I note with you and with Mr Thiébaut that out of all these mergers there are ten in Flanders and well-knownly one small in Wallonia. That is not a bad thing in itself, but we must face up to that reality. Maybe we should go to two speeds in that respect. In any case, there should not be any merger of police zones in Flanders because there would be no agreement on this in Wallonia. In terms of violence and mutual respect between police and citizens, between police and young people, it is a good thing that we are working on this. However, I would like to stress that violence against the police and aid workers deserves our attention and must be severely punished. Madam Minister, that is not only your responsibility and I hope that the Minister of Justice will also point out the sense of urgency, so that we do not leave it blue-blue. Otherwise, people will find themselves in a kind of atmosphere where they think everything is permitated to people wearing uniforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u24	Minister, thank you for all this clarification. I would simply add that I hope that all these working groups will land before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u25	Debates of the European Parliament 55027964C and 55027965C of Mr Depoostere will be discussed at the hearings on the federal judicial police on 15 June.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u26	Mr Depoostere, with regard to the elements that led the administrative authorities to issue a police regulation and ban the event, I refer to the regulation itself, which was signed by the acting mayor of Molenbeek on 12 May. I can't replace the mayor or repeat her decision. I would like to remind you that the Constitution guarantees freedom of assembly, peaceful and unarmed speeches, but clearly states that an open-air meeting remains fully subject to police law. The mayor, as responsible for the administrative police, has a number of powers in his or her municipality to maintain order. These powers can be found, among other things, in the new municipal law. As you know, freedom of movement and freedom of expression are not absolute freedoms. Its limitation must, of course, respect the rules in force. I do not need to take any more initiatives in this area. It is, of course, true that any alleged wrong decisions can be challenged by the authorities responsible for general administrative supervision, in this case the Brussels Capital Government, and the Council of State. The rights of defence are safeguarded, so that an initiative, even if possible, is not appropriate for me. As already stated, a ban cannot be based on a political conviction. In imposing a ban, the rules in force must be respected. In this case, it's a mayor's assessment. Those who do not agree with this can initiate a procedure against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u27	Madam Minister, the ban was, of course, politically motivated. This was clear from the various statements made by the mayor himself in the various media. That is why constitutional freedoms have been violated here. I will, of course, advise those concerned to start the procedure, which you have described so nicely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u28	My question was originally addressed to Secretary of State Michel. As you have certainly seen, the Walloon government has just decided to introduce a limit on spending on sponsorship on social networks to a maximum of 50% of the total expenditure allowed during the election campaign period, for local (municipal and provincial) elections, for which the Walloon government is competent. For the Ecolo-Groen Group, it is an excellent decision that goes in the direction we want, namely: to set up, in general terms, for political advertisements, whether during an election period or not, a ceiling for this type of expenditure, whatever the medium. This is about social networks, but for the Ecolo-Groen group, there is no need to distinguish between media for political advertising. This regulation should therefore apply equally to election leaflets and advertisements in newspapers, on radio or on television. Today, there are no rules on spending on social media, outside of the election campaign. We have also tabled a bill on this subject, which is being considered in the Committee on the Constitution. Do you intend to take any action in this area, whether it concerns the introduction of a specific ceiling on social networks (as is the case in Wallonia) during election campaigns or whether it concerns a more general ceiling outside the electoral campaign, as colleagues from other parties also wish?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u29	The legislation on election expenses and the financing of political parties is generally subject to amendments as a result of proposals for an own-initiative parliamentary law at the end of the Commission for the Control of Election Expenses and the Accounting of Political Parties. In view of the experience of this committee, assisted in this by four experts appointed in accordance with the Act of 4 July 1989, and by the establishment of a working group on political parties, it seems to me appropriate that, as in the past, legislative change initiatives in the field of election expenditure should be taken by Parliament itself, after a constructive debate in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u30	Madam Minister, thank you. I agree with you: it is interesting that initiatives can come from Parliament. Besides, we're working on it. If I asked you about this, it is obviously because of the current state of affairs in Wallonia, where the majority of PS-Ecolo-MR decided to limit authorised spending on political advertising. This is a new political fact, since Belgium did not previously apply legislation in this area. Above all, we felt that some parties had been fearful of such measures. Now, on the francophone side, PS, MR and Ecolo have been able to move forward. I asked you this question, because there was an additional political aspect because of this new Walloon rule. Of course, we are going to work in this Parliament in this direction, trying to convince as many colleagues as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u31	Madam Minister, Brussels immigrants regularly drop off by train to Ghent, after which they continue on the bus to the Blaarmeersen. Again, similar to what we noticed in previous years, incidents occurred, both in the Blaarmeersen and on public transport. A bus was destroyed, resulting in broken windows and broken seats. According to witnesses, the incidents were noted by both De Lijn police and staff, but were not intervened. I say this with some reservations, so I would ask you to clarify this. Madam Secretary, do you have any knowledge of the facts? Have there been records prepared by local and/or federal police? Did the police intervene or not? If a report was drawn up, what was the qualification? Do the police have a profile of the perpetrator in terms of age, residence, nationality or origin? I know sometimes it's sensitive to discuss unsub profiling across party boundaries. In this respect, I think we should be able to debate this without hesitation. If every time the same young people in Brussels take public transport to Ghent to set things up, one should not go hunting for grannys who with their grandchildren seek the coolest of a lake. Hopefully with warm days ahead, I call for special attention to be paid to both preventive and repressive actions to stop the perpetrators of violence. Madam Secretary, what further steps will you take in this connection? Do you support our request for a hard copy policy, whereby suspects of such crime if caught are immediately subpoenaed by swift justice, so that they do not escape their deserved punishment?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u32	Mr Depoostere, it is true that the Ghent police area has identified incidents on 18, 21 and 22 May. There were no incidents from 19 May. Following the facts on 18 May, 15 minutes were prepared for facts on the Blaarmeersen itself or on the route between the Blaarmeersen and Gent-Sint-Pieters. The investigation into the facts themselves on the bus is part of the further investigation following a declaration by De Lijn. Camera footage is available. They were seized for the purpose of identifying the offenders. The city of Ghent and the police have been confronted with such facts several times in recent years. It is certainly the case that the police forces are preparing to deal with this phenomenon every time it threatens to go wrong in a period of good weather. This year an exploitation plan was developed in consultation with the relevant services and with the operator of the Blaarmeersen, including atmospheric management on the site and access guidance. The plan works in stages and runs until the third Sunday of September. In addition to the extra commitment of various partners, additional staff from the police are also provided on the route between Ghent-Sint-Pieters and the Blaarmeersen but also on the site of the Blaarmeersen itself. Depending on the number of visitors and the weather conditions, police capacity is adjusted and so happens throughout the summer. You will understand that this extra effort requires a great deal of flexibility on the part of the police. I would particularly like to thank them for that. On the train between Gent-Sint-Pieters and the Blaarmeersen, persons who seem to be on their way to the Blaarmeers but exhibit unwanted behaviour are controlled by the police. The mayor has authorized a systematic identity check. The police are visible on the site of the Blaarmeersen itself. In any case, the police remain available and can act in case of emergency and proceed to enforcement if necessary. As I pointed out in plenary last week, I sent a circular last year with preventive and repressive measures to the local authorities, the provincial governors and the administrators of the recreational areas. A survey of the FPS Home Affairs with all involved partners has shown that the circular is appreciated and provides a clear overview of the means or ways to act. For example, on the basis of a ban on access, the operator can deny access to visitors and gas fines can be imposed for, for example, noise pollution, spills and damage to the public domain. Mayors may also proceed to a temporary place ban. The ban on places has been in the ANG since 1 July. This allows any police officer to immediately check whether a restraining order is in force during a police check.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u33	Madam Minister, the measures of course apply not only to De Blaarmemeersen in Ghent, as you had already understood. It must be safe for everyone to go to any recreation area in Flanders. The circular letter is indeed a nice and good way to deal with this type of violence and incidents. However, this needs to be put into practice. That is why I am calling for a sort of swift justice whereby the perpetrators can be served immediately and immediately know what their punishment is. If not, there is a risk that the same perpetrators will cause the same incidents. There are some things that are, of course, very good. The fact that the operators themselves can prohibit access to a particular domain seems obvious to me. The issue of a ban on places should be the same. One can also work more preventively. At the stations of the Brussels-Capital Region one could already check which young people are planning to move to such recreational areas to make amok. There may also be some responsibility for the Brussels-Capital Region. Thank you very much for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u34	Mr Van Langenhove, you had two questions...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u35	Mr President, I would like to ask Mr Van Langenhove his questions, but I am waiting for my turn in the Foreign Affairs Committee. I have already understood that Mr Segers will be joining us later with his questions. Before you were President, it was customary that if you were not present at the time when the question was raised, it would either lapse or be converted into a written question. Once again, I would like to ask everyone his question, but not if whoever sits here waiting for it to become the victim.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u36	That is correct, but if Mr Segers asks and someone else does so, then I try to apply a certain flexibility in the work. You are right, but Mr Van Langenhove is in time for his question on illegal migration across the Channel. You can certainly ask all that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u37	Madam Minister, illegal migration via the so-called Channel Route has been on the rise for several years and reached its peak last year when more than 28,000 people reached Britain by this route. To control this phenomenon, France and Belgium called in Frontex's assistance at the end of last year. Since early December, the European Border Agency has been patrolling by aircraft, including over the North Sea. Questioned about this recently, Secretary of State Mahdi stated that Britain is willing to invest enormously in strengthening security in France and Belgium, adding no reason why we should not do so, and he referred me to you on this point, given the shared competence. How do you generally assess Frontex's commitment in this area in recent months? What concrete results did this operation yield? It is, of course, a matter of being happy that she is here, but a second to be happy about certain concrete results. Do you consider that a further commitment of Frontex in this area is useful and would you perhaps even like to scale it up? What financial and logistical support will Belgium now receive from the United Kingdom in the fight against illegal immigration? What additional huge investments are the British prepared to make? Are there specific Belgian wishes in this respect? If so, which one? Has there been any consultation between the competent British and Belgian authorities on this matter? How do you assess the existing police cooperation in the border region between Great Britain, France and Belgium? After all, your French colleague was not very satisfied with that. What are the shortcomings and what do you think should be improved?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u38	Mr Van Langenhove, until now, the deployment of the Frontex aircraft has shown an important added value for France, with several interventions already reported, especially when weather conditions were good. Since the start of this operation, no detection has been carried out by the Frontex aircraft over the Belgian territory. It is possible that during the summer months more migrants would cross the border because of the weather conditions and then again mainly from France because of the better geographical location from that point of view. However, it is always possible for outgoing migrants to drift from France to Belgium, which would also make patrols over Belgian territory useful. In 2020, €784,000 of aid was provided in the form of detection equipment, vessels and vehicles. At present there is no longer any financial support, but the United Kingdom is still providing assistance through the use of control teams for the shipping police in Zeebrugge. A thermal camera was installed in De Panne, which was co-financed by the UK Border Force, in order to detect incidents at sea in a timely manner where people would be in danger. The detection software there analyses the thermal images in real time and automatically sends a notification to the Maritime Information Crosspoint and the Maritime Rescue and Coordination Centre when a potential incident is observed. If necessary, the Belgian police services will be notified through the usual channels. The camera is currently in trial. In addition, the United Kingdom has purchased night vision goggles, drones and other equipment for the West Coast police zone and provides ground sensors to detect illegal activities in the dune area. Currently, the federal police are not involved in calls for additional investment by the United Kingdom. However, there are ongoing calls between the port of Zeebrugge and the UK Border Force about investments in improved port terminal security, whereby private companies and the port company could take additional security measures in the form of a central security and command room, from which all cameras and detection devices in the port can be monitored and possible actions taken in the event of illegal climbing. The UK Border Force invests about £3 million in this center and another £1.4 million in additional cameras on the port site. There is very good cooperation between Belgium and the United Kingdom to reduce irregular migration to the UK and to combat smuggling networks. Contacts between the two countries are frequent, both at political, administrative and operational level. Within the federal police, the shipping police cooperates closely with all neighbouring countries in the fight against illegal migration. On 23 March I had another meeting with the Home Secretary Mrs Patel on the joint fight against irregular migration. A bilateral police cooperation agreement between the UK and Belgium is needed if it is to be even better implemented, including post-Brexit. During the bilateral meeting, negotiations to draw up the Convention were launched. In the meantime, work has already been done on this. For Belgium, it is essential that border control actions with France are based on criminal intelligence and information generated in ongoing investigations. On a day-by-day basis, any incidents are monitored and followed up by the areas concerned, both the Prefect of Northern France and the West Flemish police zones. Operational consultations will also take place between the services on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u39	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. I note that more than one intervention was made in France, but not yet in Belgium. Of course, that can still happen. Perhaps it would be useful to focus on distress by making it clear that the resources are in place and that they will be used to ensure that illegal migration to Britain is driven back. Investing in detection equipment, the use of control teams in Zeebrugge, and the thermal camera that is on trial, but which we will have to follow up to see what results it will yield, are indeed investments by the United Kingdom. It can always be better. It is not really a question of huge investments there either. We must dare to draw the British's attention to their responsibilities in the bilateral consultations. It's because of their somewhat bizarre internal policies that allows for a giant black economy that so many people want to move there. People don't need papers there to show why they're there. For our part, too, there is, of course, a great responsibility, of you and your colleague, Sammy Mahdi, to ensure that we can prevent this problem, rather than cure it. We can, of course, do this by much better guarding the European external borders, by installing both legal and physical borders there, so that these migrants do not get to Belgium, and not to Great Britain either.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u40	MM. Samuel Cogolati and Olivier Vajda are absent. Their questions Nos 55028118C and 55028137C are not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u41	Madam Minister, the Belgian State has recently been convicted by the Namur Court of First Instance on the application of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007. This law, which organizes the reform of the relief services, provides that this funding must aim at the parity of contributions between the municipalities and the federal State. The court therefore ordered the Belgian State to adopt the Royal Decree implementing Article 67, paragraph 3, of the said Law, on penalty of penalty if the latter does not comply within 9 months after the service of the judgment, that is, before 14 July. The State appealed this decision, but this appeal is not suspensive. A working group has therefore been set up to determine the terms and conditions for funding the federal share, a working group in which your firm is, of course, involved. It is clear from these discussions that the Walloon municipalities would in the end finance their relief areas relatively little, unlike the Flemish municipalities. However, this seems to ignore the role of the provinces in this issue. Neither the provincial contributions nor the ongoing reform of the Walloon government - which provides for the resumption of the financing of the areas by the provinces instead of the communes - are mentioned. The consequences of such an analysis could naturally be catastrophic for municipal and provincial budgets. Minister, what is the government's position on this? Have you seen the work undertaken by the Walloon Region? Can you assure the Walloon municipalities and provinces that their contribution will be taken into account in the discussions, so as to avoid, once again, increasing the finances of Walloon municipalities with a view to rebalancing?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u42	Dear colleague Reuter, in order to implement article 67, paragraph 2, of the Law of 15 May 2007 on Civil Security, a royal decree must determine the ratio of the expenditure of fire services borne by the municipalities on the one hand and by the federal State on the other, on the other, as at 31 December 2007, as well as the revenue and expenditure items of the municipalities and the federal State to determine this ratio. Article 67(2) provides that the municipalities of an area shall not together contribute more in real terms than their present contribution, the present contribution being that determined on 31 December 2007, as explicitly provided for in the text of Article 67(2). As a result, the expenditure of the municipalities should be taken into account as at 31 December 2007. In order to allow the comparison of these expenditure with the evolution of the federal government's expenditure, the amount of municipal expenditure will have to be indexed. The decision of the Walloon government of 2019 concerning the participation of the provinces in the budget of the relief zones therefore has no impact on the work relating to the preparation of the royal decree implementing article 67, paragraph 2. Moreover, the purpose of the working group set up in connection with the drafting of the royal decree implementing article 67, paragraph 2, of the Act was not to compare the contributions of the municipalities between them. We're working on this royal decree project and we'll come back to you when he's ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u43	Madam Minister, thank you. If I understand you correctly, but I will read your answer carefully, whatever the participation, the purpose of the 2007 law must not increase the communal finances of any kind. So in the working group, that's why you didn't take provincial participation into account. To clarify all this and pending the royal decree, I will analyse your answer. I hope to hear from you soon enough. You are aware that communal finances are extremely complicated. We are the last small link in the chain and necessarily adding to those budgets would be catastrophic. Today, as far as my province is concerned, we can count on the support of the Walloon Brabant Province to help finance these relief areas, but an additional budget would not be sustainable in the short term or even in the long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u44	Mr. President, Madam Minister, attacks on rescue services, especially our firefighters and ambulance workers, are becoming more and more frequent. On Monday 23 May last, once again, as paramedics intervened at a lady's home in Roux, Charleroi's entity, it was reported in the press that a father and his son, blocked by the rescue service's vehicle, had attacked the emergency workers with a knife. This is obviously totally unacceptable! If a judicial investigation is still under way in this case, we know, unfortunately, that the number of attacks on paramedics and rescue services is increasing from year to year, leaving serious psychological and even physical consequences for the attacked personnel. Not to mention forced arrests due to incapacity for work. It is time for a strong response to protect our paramedics and rescue services during their operations. My question is simple, Madam Minister: in the face of this resurgence of aggression, and in collaboration with your colleague in charge of justice, do you intend to take steps to combat these attacks, but also to prosecute the perpetrators?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u45	Mr Thiébaut, as I have already said, a campaign entitled "Fire is not always your worst enemy" was launched at the end of 2021. Staff are encouraged to report cases of violence both within the relief zone and with the police. Prior to the launch of the campaign, a letter had been sent to the relief areas, asking them to develop a policy on aggression and to encourage staff members to file complaints with the police. A FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions) on the theme of violence was also developed. It is an online document that is updated as new information becomes available. This FAQ strongly advises staff members to report any physical or verbal assault. In addition, the Federal Knowledge Centre for Civil Security has developed, in collaboration with experts in the field, two new trainings on aggressive management during interventions. Training provides knowledge and skills on this issue so that assistance and assistance can be provided in safe working conditions in situations of aggression. The aim is to take appropriate action to ensure that victims are not deprived of their right to relief and that rescue workers ensure their safety. On the other hand, in criminal matters, I want a zero-tolerance policy for attacks. I am in favour of the legalization of penalties in the Criminal Code for all acts committed against firefighters and police officers. An amendment to the Code is currently under way to provide for consistent penalties for assaults on persons with social functions, including police officers and first aid workers. In addition to these measures, taking into account the fact that police officers and paramedics regularly refuse to file complaints for fear of reprisals, I have asked the Minister of Justice to amend the Code of Criminal Investigation to allow first responders to file complaints without mentioning their personal address. This possibility already exists for the police. Adopting a similar provision for firefighters and paramedics would encourage the filing of complaints in the event of aggression and would allow for a real view of the phenomenon, but also for taking appropriate measures to combat attacks. Finally, a draft law on the use of cameras by the operational civil security services is being prepared. Their use in interventions will deter perpetrators of violence and make it easier to identify those responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u46	Madam Minister, thank you for your very concrete answers. Minister, I also intend to ask your colleague from the Department of Justice, because there is also room for work in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u47	I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u48	Mr Metsu, none of the tasks carried out by the DAP must be carried out by the DAB. The tasks of the SAB are listed in Articles 23 and 44/16 of the Police Office Act. The DAB currently has 1301 staff, 1244 members of the operational framework, 1 police chief, 24 police commissioners, 109 chief inspectors, 3 security coordinators, 344 security assistants, 835 security officers and 57 members of the CALog staff. I can also provide you with that information in writing. As you know, there are currently no legal provisions providing for the SGI to take over the security of Jewish institutions. That has already been decided by my predecessors. With regard to the targeted campaigns, the federal police, and thus also the DAB, participated in around 20 events, including federal and integrated police jobs. In the second half of this year, the DAB will present itself to the provincial schools and also to the students of secondary technical education to warm them up for a job with the police. The SAB was generally satisfied with the events in which it participated. It is difficult to determine whether this has increased the number of applicants, but the evaluation of the events indicated success.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u49	Madam Secretary, that doesn't help me very much. I think you've slipped your mind in your first sentence. None of the tasks performed by DAP should be performed by the DAB?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u50	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u51	Okay, now I get it. I will ask a few more detailed questions about the Jewish institutions, which I think would be better.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u52	Mr President, Mr Metsu, when I took office, it became clear that some emergency power stations are suffering from staff shortages which unfortunately cannot be eliminated overnight. We have certainly made this a priority in the recruitment of additional operators, as I pointed out in my policy statement. Several selection procedures are launched each year by the services, with varying success. Sometimes too few candidates show up, sometimes the number of candidates who eventually pass the written and oral tests is low. As a result, not all vacant places can be filled immediately. A valid candidate cannot be used immediately either, as he must undergo basic training with a theoretical and practical part before being able to be employed. I am not yet talking about the medical screening that the successful candidates must undergo, the security clearance they must obtain or the notice they may have to go through with a previous employer. Every year selections are organized and every year new people are also employed. The services of the FPS are currently looking at how these selection procedures and recruitments can be done even faster, but of course we remain dependent on the offer of candidates and the possible still to be performed notice periods. In addition to operational staff, my attention is also focused on framework staff. A promotional examination for experts and site coordinators was organised in 2021-2022. The function of site coordinator is, by the way, new and was created specifically to assist the service chief in HR and logistics matters. A new promotional examination for shiftworkers will be organised next year. At the same time, we have unfolded the plans that have a direct impact on the well-being of operators. One aspect of this is the introduction of the 112 app, which allows a better and faster location of the caller, allowing the operator to intervene more quickly. In addition, the number 1722 was introduced, reducing the pressure on emergency number 112 in the event of thunderstorms and storms. I also mention the e-stop shop 1722. The roll-out of the top provincial architecture, designed to ensure that emergency power stations can assist each other when one of them suddenly faces a sharp increase in calls, has also been completed for six emergency power stations. There is also systematic work on procedures and their simplification. I had already listed these initiatives in my policy plan, and as I have said, the services are now systematically introducing them. Unexpected difficulties can make planning difficult. For example, the development of the upper provincial architecture was delayed by the covid pandemic and by the complexity of the software, which the software developers have played. Any concrete action we take will be discussed with the emergency power station manager, but of course there is no problem in further sharing these action plans with the emergency power station staff if this is desirable. It is therefore the case that systematic improvements are being made to assist operators in the performance of their jobs, without losing sight of the best possible service to citizens. Finally, you will not be surprised that innovative solutions are also being used. The 112 menu does not exist anywhere else in Europe. It has drastically reduced the number of useless calls to the 112 emergency number and reduced the number of calls to the 112 emergency centres for the police. Together with the Innovation Lab of the FPS Policy and Support, my services seek to explore the possibilities of artificial intelligence in the support of the operators. So, Mr Metsu, we are clearly not there yet, but we are already far beyond the beginning of this policy period. This is an important operational service. I will therefore continue to follow this dossier closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u53	That's a clear answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u54	Madam Minister, this issue is more acute and important to consider. It is no longer surprising that the local police forces but also the devolved federal police services in the province of Antwerp are facing shortages. Their operation can no longer be guaranteed. People's safety is being compromised. This is not due to the fact that no budgets are available or vacancies are open. In Antwerp, 19 of the 24 police zones are in a difficult situation. Today I read in the newspaper that this is not just the case in Antwerp, but that it is about the whole of Flanders, but not about the whole country. Madam Secretary, are you aware of these poignant deficits? Do you recognise the specific problem and the additional high workload of the province? This is also linked to the priority rules introduced in the previous legislature because there was an acute threat of terrorism at the time. Are you prepared to review the priority rules on mobility so that recruitment campaigns are no longer cancelled? One of your stickhorses is the renewed selection procedure with the police. Everything would go very fast, the lead times would be shorter. Quality would not be lost. Today, however, we hear on the field that there is no success in getting candidates to enter the police schools and the corps in good time and in sufficient numbers. Can you confirm this? What's the cause of that? How well on track are we to recruit 1,600 inspectors who will not make a replacement rate for 2022? Is there currently a large shortage of Dutch-speaking staff on the recruitment service of the DGR? Does this then have a negative impact on the planning of the generic selection procedure? Are there enough people employed in medical services? Previously, we also asked a question about the shortage of occupational physicians for medical checks. Is there sufficient training capacity in police schools? Is the SARA tool sufficiently developed? If not, why not? We often hear great stories here, but reality often overtakes these stories. That is why I hope that we will have a pertinent and intellectually honest answer here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u55	Mr Metsu, I always try to be intellectually honest. That is absolutely my approach. I have one more question. As regards the recruitment of the 1,600 inspectors, you say that they will not make a replacement rate. What exactly do you mean by that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u56	Those 1,600 additional inspectors would be added net and would not have been included in the replacement ratio, I understood in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u57	No, I never said that. That also covers the movers, but we hire more inspectors than people leave. I will explain this further in my reply. It is indeed my ambition to recruit at least 1,600 inspectors every year. Last year we achieved that ambition. Then we recruited 1,897 prospective inspectors, the highest number of recruitments ever. As I just said, that also covers the movers. In the past, much less new aspirants were recruited, so the movers were not compensated. With this ratio we have net more than the movers, but that does not always mean that 1 600 net people are added. In 2022, 996 were recruited to date, from which 698 could start their training, because they themselves indicated that they wanted to start the training. These figures provide a similar picture compared to last year's recruitment. From our experience in 2021, we have learned that, mainly in the second half of the year, an application is made for posts with the police. We will continue to work in the coming months to get the number of 1,600 recruits. I read in the newspapers that I would have promised that 3,000 extra people would be recruited, but I never said that. In my policy statement and other statements in the Chamber, I have always talked about 1,600 people. Of course, in addition to these 600 prospective inspectors, security agents, agents, CALog staff, specialised profiles, including for the FGP, and Commissioners are recruited. Saying that we're just telling great stories isn't correct. We're not here yet. I won't say that either. We're only halfway through the year. We must continue to work hard, also because of the situation in the labour market. The police are not the only sector in which we have to look hard for good profiles. We are not without hope that we will be able to get those figures again this year. We are not blind to reality either. There is a tight labour market and therefore we must continue to focus on making a job attractive to the police. That is what we have tried to do with the sectoral agreement in which we also provide for a large increase in remuneration for boarding workers, so that it becomes more attractive for new start-ups to the police. We must also focus on modern, active and creative recruitment, like all employers. That is why we worked on joint recruitment actions in 2021. It has also been proposed to all governors to coordinate a provincial action plan for recruitment to the police forces, possibly together with other emergency services. In this way, people interested in safety professions can be attracted. The governors supported that approach. We are convinced that this local and provincial anchoring can ensure that one in the province can focus on one's own priorities and opportunities. At the same time, it creates a broad support base for recruitment. In the spring there are job days organized in all Flemish provinces. In addition, new partnerships have been established to attract and encourage recruitment, including with Belgian Cycling and the CAPITAL non-profit organisation. Today we must also take account of the success rate. There are some people who do not pass the tests, but they remain necessary. Not everyone has the right capacity to join the police. We absolutely must continue to guarantee the quality of police work. Since September 2021, we have also started with a new recruitment concept, with the main aim of reducing the lead time and also involving the various services in the integrated police. In 2022 we are in a transition year, because there are people in the old recruitment concept and people in the new recruitment concept. Those two are running next to each other now. The people who were attracted to the old system were recruited as a priority at the beginning of this year. Now we are moving more and more to the new system. For the recruitment of the number of candidates, his Recruitment and Selection was already strengthened with psychologists and administrative staff through secondment and external recruitments last year. In addition, the Dutch administration was strengthened. Despite all efforts, the medical service has not yet fully succeeded in attracting all the necessary doctors. A study will be carried out, together with the ULB, to further address this. You asked about the training courses that were cancelled in the police school or couldn't continue. For 2022, this is a single training programme. Four courses have started with less than the maximum number of aspirants. This has to do with the fact that not all aspirants immediately apply for training after they have been selected. This is again a question of supply and demand. It goes without saying that we must avoid this as much as possible, so that schools can continue to organise themselves with a view to the moments of training and so that everyone who has been selected can attend the school as soon as possible. Those people have to sign up for it themselves and start according to their own agenda or their own professional activities, so not immediately. There was also a temporary problem in the screening of candidates through the introduction of the new recruitment concept, which in some cases did not allow them to flow quickly. I can confirm that this problem is now over and that, of course, we will continue to monitor it. We want to eliminate every hiccup in the recruitment concept. We also note that there is a challenge for local recruitment initiatives that we also have. You know that some local areas have asked if they could recruit themselves locally. We have discussed this point several times with the GPI. This was also part of the proposal that we put on the table in the negotiations on the qualitative part of the sectoral agreement. That's where this is being discussed. We can see that there is now a lower occupation than was envisaged in places where recruitment is carried out locally. So we see the same challenge there. As far as I am concerned, it remains of the utmost importance in the future to constantly align with the federal police, the local police and the police schools in order to guarantee the flow to the police schools. As I said at the beginning, I haven't lost all hope of getting those 1,600 new aspirants before this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u58	Madam Secretary, first of all, I am pleased that the number of 3,000 is now gone. I read that again this afternoon in the newspaper. Even with all the internal recruitments, promotions and so on, we would never get 3,000 people. We do not need to talk about this anymore. There are very few people here in the room. That makes sense because there are questions on the agenda for the Minister. However, in Parliament there are a lot of mayors and police council members of local police areas. I'm allowed to preside over a well-functioning zone myself. Together with the corps leadership, we have decided to go to a maximum number of recruitments, just to ensure the safety of our citizens. That's one of our spearheads. The vacancies are there, but they're not filled out. We also read in the paper today that there are no candidates. You indicate that there is a shortage of labour in the labour market. I want to believe all that, although I hear there are quite some candidates. However, there are insufficient staff in the recruitment department of the federal police to deal with the applications. So all the candidates are literally lying there in a pile. They lie there waiting to be selected. We must wait for the recruitment staff to be able to do their job. My colleague will also ask the question, but I propose that a split be made between the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking candidates. In the case of the French-speaking candidates, I find there is much less of a problem. Among the Dutch-speaking candidates there is an acute problem. Of course, that's where the shoe pinches. The services also need a fair and comprehensive vision. You're gonna report that, too. You're always trying to give an intellectually honest answer. We do not always agree on the figures. Once again, however, the experts today need a detailed vision. There is a great deal going on in the security landscape, but I do not think that the vision is quite clear yet. We are sitting here in a permanent circle studying, although acute knots need to be cut. Certain solutions are almost obvious. So I'm gonna make another plea. You're already doing this, but keep doing it. Listen very actively to your experience experts and the experts in the field. I hope that we will be able to resolve certain problems very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u59	Thank you very much, Mr Metsu. The incident is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, my Vice-President, Mr Metsu, reminds me of the need to be present to ask his question when it is scheduled. I think he is right about the letter of the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise it becomes a pigeon house and it is no longer under control. Today I would like to allow it one last time, but in the future I will deal with it a little more strictly. I think it shows respect for the minister and the services...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u60	I know that, but everyone has an agenda. If everyone's gonna screen their calendars, we're gonna be here in the morning. That's what we're trying to avoid. For today, however, I would like to allow it. Mr Van Langenhove, you have the floor for your question on border controls.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u61	Madam Minister, I refer to the question that has been put. I'm curious how you feel about things.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u62	Mr van Langenhove, whether or not to introduce border controls within the European Union is a Member State's responsibility, but, as you said, it is subject to a set of conditions laid down in the Schengen Borders Code. The national threat level set by the OCAD is not of that order that we could now introduce temporary internal border controls. The threat level for internal security currently does not justify such a drastic measure with a significant impact on the free movement of goods and persons on our territory, based on the information available. The measures taken by the other Member States to which you refer are all based on their own threat analyses and were implemented as such by those Member States, as provided for in the Schengen Borders Code and in line with the Court of Justice. A proposal to amend the Schengen Borders Code is currently under discussion in the relevant Council, particularly at European level. It also concerns the temporary reintroduction of controls at internal borders. As the discussions are still under way, I cannot go into detail on this at the moment, but I am very much in favour of discussing this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u63	Madam Minister, I would like to go into that a little bit more in depth today. The extension of the derogation is, in my view, contrary to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which pointed out that an extension of border controls for more than six months is, for the same reason, contrary to the Schengen Borders Code and that Member States cannot therefore rely on that exception. However, you will not be surprised that I do not mind at all. My group is very much in favour of border controls, certainly if they can be organised in an efficient, sporadic way. They don't have to have a drastic impact at all, as you say wrongly. If we use high-tech means of introducing border controls sporadicly, at appropriate times, at the right people and in the right places, this will have no drastic impact at all. In this way, we can secure our internal borders and ensure greater security. Criminals, and possibly even wanted terrorists, can be caught with border controls. This has already happened in the past without having to have a drastic impact on border traffic. You have not really stated whether you are in favour of any reform of the Schengen Borders Code, with the exceptions contained therein, so that Member States can introduce border controls more flexibly if they deem it necessary. This can be useful in the future for many reasons. This has already happened in the past because of the coronapandemic, but it can also happen because of terrorism or for important meetings. As you have not gone into this in more detail, perhaps I will put forward a follow-up request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u64	Madam Minister, the special committee responsible for evaluating legislation and policies on trafficking in human beings and smuggling started a few weeks ago. We received a visit from Patrick Bourgeois of the FGP Brussels, who advocated a processing centre for transmigrants. I quote: "For a while, there has been a processing centre for transmigrants (ACT) where local police could send migrants. We thought that was not a bad idea, but only the administrative aspect. No information was collected or given. We are therefore in favour of an ACT, but with a judicial objective." In the Committee on the Interior, Secretary of State Mahdi recently said that this is primarily your responsibility. Earlier he said that he thinks this is a good idea and that we can count on his support. Minister Van Quickenborne has already indicated this and you have already done so. We have already discussed it several times in committee. You agreed with me that we should use a different term. You said that there would be no immediate need for an additional centre or an additional administrative centre for police duties alone. Everyone seems to agree, however, that such a centre should transcend purely police practice. In addition to Mr Bourgeois, the Committee P also quotes: "There is a need for an integrated policy in the field which will also automatically lead to even better humane treatment of migrants, more efficient and effective judicial or investigative investigations and better motivation within the integrated police to deal with this phenomenon which is sometimes perceived to be insufficiently meaningful." So everyone thinks it's a good idea. Will you now work on such a well-framed centre with, for example, a contact point for the smuggling maggistraat, which was all explained earlier, knowing that the previous centre for transit migration in Steenokkerzeel just failed in part because of the non-integrated concept and limited framework? What timeline will you do that and where?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u65	Mr Segers, a centralised, integrated handling of transmigrants is regularly put forward as the ideal solution. In September 2018, the Administrative Centre for Transmigrants was established in Steenokkerzeel, but it soon turned out that an inefficient way of working did not benefit anyone. On the contrary, it increased the problems already identified by the P Committee in the field. Thus, the organisation of transport to the ACT and the surrender to another handling service led to a very sensitive extension of the already long and labour-intensive processing process. The impact of the ACT on the phenomenon of transmigration, nuisance and insecurity and the underlying criminal networks on human trafficking was also virtually nil, as the facts showed. That's why it was closed, as you pointed out. The phenomenon of transmigration manifests itself most strongly in the province of West Flanders due to its geographical location. However, the introduction of a central facility has not been evident for many reasons for many years, not least the extent of the province and the general spread of the phenomenon. That is why it has been chosen to proceed with a sensitive extension of the Federal Police Intervention Corps. This will enable rapid local support to be offered to those police areas where groups of migrants are found. However, it remains utopian to think that unlimited reception capacity could be available everywhere and at any time, regardless of whether it is local or centralised. For large groups, additional solutions will always have to be sought in solidarity. The DirCo of the federal police can play a role in this, but local authorities can also make a contribution here. The humane treatment of transmigrants is, of course, paramount here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u66	Madam Minister, I recognise what has already happened, but a centre for transit migration would be a sensitive added value. You've acknowledged that before. As I said, the centre in Steenokkerzeel failed because of its non-integrated view. So let us also work in West Flanders on such a centre that includes the judicial system. That will greatly enhance the motivation of the corps. I wish you every success in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u67	Madam Minister, I have previously asked a number of questions to the Minister of Justice about Ukrainian unaccompanied minors in Belgium. They've been dating back a while. At that time there were seven hundred Ukrainian unaccompanied minors in Belgium, of which 200 were in an observation centre. For 89 of them, a guardian was appointed at that time. This means that at that time some 400 Ukrainian unaccompanied minors were in a home situation without a guardian. I am concerned about this, all the more so because I have heard stories about unaccompanied minors, where the contact did not go optimal with the accompanying adult - whether Ukrainian or not. Often this is a family member or a friend of the family. In doing so, we must recognise that in most cases it is going well. Now it may take a long time for all Ukrainian unaccompanied minors in their home situation to have effective guardianship, despite the government's recent engagements. Then the question is, what do we do in the meantime? The guardians were not recruited immediately. I also asked Secretary of State Mahdi about this recently. He said that the continued attention to this is indeed necessary, that he himself is not responsible for control, but that initiatives have been taken. Similarly, you would have taken the initiative to ensure that this place is properly followed up. I have a few questions about that. What initiative does Secretary of State Mahdi refer to? What initiative have you taken to ensure that this is monitored at local level? If I understand correctly, isn't this a situation outside the scope of the transfer letter concerning the control of the candidate cottages? After all, this is not about the host families that are screened for matching through the hashtag PLEKRRIJ initiative. Is there a systematic follow-up of Ukrainian unaccompanied minors without guardians that is centrally monitored by you or by the government, so that you can ensure that every Ukrainian minor in his home situation is effectively followed without this being dependent on the initiative of a municipality? How does that happen? Do you have an overall picture? What further will you do to ensure that unaccompanied minors in their home situation are in safe conditions until the guardian is appointed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u68	Mr President, Mr Segers, the Secretary of State indeed referred in his replies to the general measures taken to protect persons fleeing Ukraine. For example, the letter of 18 March, as you correctly say, deals with the screening of prospective host families, by means of a check on the extract from the criminal record, which, of course, should also improve the safety of minors on the run. In addition, where there is a risk to the security of a person on the flight, the police forces may still carry out the checks and investigations within the scope of the powers conferred on them by law, on the basis of information that has been notified, on the basis of information or also on the basis of established facts. In addition, the Secretary of State also referred, for example, to the multidisciplinary working groups working within the Federal Coordination Committee to monitor the situation of persons on the flight as closely as possible. I am thinking in particular of the Working Party on Welfare, the Working Group on Abuse and the Task Force on GPI. A risk analysis carried out by the federal judicial police showed that the current situation leads to an increased risk of trafficking in human beings, knowing that this is mainly about women and minors. The entire integrated police force was therefore sensitised to be extra vigilant, so that suspicious situations can be detected, but also an appropriate police and/or judicial response can be given. Local police also have an important role to play. Often local police will come into contact with situations that may indicate possible forms of abuse by ensuring basic police care, such as intervention or community service. On info-ukraine.be, a specific heading was then included to raise awareness of the risks of abuse on the flight from Ukraine. Contact information on national centres for trafficking in human beings is also available. Finally, with regard to the specific situation of unaccompanied minors, I would like to refer you to the Minister of Justice, as part of his responsibility for the Voogdij Department, and in particular to his reply to this question in the Committee on Justice of 18 May.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic805x.u69	Madam Secretary, you spoke of an increased risk of trafficking in human beings and exploitation. It is precisely for this reason that we should not allow this to depend on whether or not to register through a municipality, because a check would be carried out, or even from signals received. We should be able to achieve systematic monitoring here. They have the list of all those unaccompanied minors who are registered at the Heysel. Then we must be able to follow them. We must all know where they are going to be. If the Belgian State is not in a position to appoint that guardian then another solution must be sought. We can then work through a cascade system and with the necessary inspiration. One could also involve CLB and education in network care. In any case, we need to be sure that every Ukrainian young person is being followed up. Suppose one knows that a Ukrainian youngster who has applied to the Heysel has not yet shown up for school. Shouldn't an alarm signal go off? It would then be necessary to ensure that a place visit is made through network care. This requires systematic central monitoring, taking the whole list from all unaccompanied minors who have registered at the Heysel. I think it is really necessary for you to meet with Secretary of State Mahdi and Minister Van Quickenborne, whom I have questioned several times.
