ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic691x.u1	Mr President, Mrs Dierick, the opinion of the Council of State on the preliminary draft law transposing the Omnibus Directive was received on 23 December 2021. The preliminary draft and the explanatory memorandum were adapted to the comments of the Council of State. The bill was filed in the Chamber last week. The Economic Inspection shall monitor compliance with economic regulations throughout the year, including the rules on the solders, the barrier period, the indication of the price and the prohibition of misleading practices in relation to the price. She does this by monitoring the notifications she receives through the hotline and by targeted actions during known promotional periods. Checks can take place in physical establishments and online.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic691x.u2	The bill has been tabled. So we can discuss it soon. Thank you for that and I look forward to the further discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic691x.u3	Madam Secretary of State, from April 1st, clients of BNP Paribas Fortis and its subsidiaries Fintro and Hello Bank! will only be able to place a maximum of EUR 250 000 in a regulated savings account. Savings exceeding this limit will automatically be transferred to an unregulated deposit account offering a zero interest rate. BNP Paribas Fortis follows the trace of ING, Argenta and Triodos who had already introduced a ceiling for their savings accounts. As a reminder, beyond EUR 250 000 placed in an unregulated deposit account, ING and Triodos even apply a negative rate of 0.50 %. Signs justify these caps by low rates in financial markets. Of course, it is clear that EUR 250 000 is a considerable sum and therefore this limitation affects only 1% of the clientele, an easy audience, but, like consumer protection associations, I fear that this movement will increase and the ceilings will be lowered over time. I am more concerned about this first step, which might be to work with lower ceilings later than the amounts currently applied. Madam Secretary of State, how can you avoid this kind of initiative having a snowball effect and getting worse in the long term, for example by gradually reducing the ceiling for savings accounts? Are you in contact with the Minister of Finance and Febelfin to discuss this topic? If so, what is the result of your exchanges?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic691x.u4	Mr Prévot, my cabinet has already established informal contacts, like Febelfin and the Minister of Finance, with several players in the sector on zero and negative interest rates on savings accounts. For your information, BNP Paribas Fortis will continue to offer a regulated savings account up to a maximum of 250,000 euros. In my discussions with the bank, I also indicated that clients should be properly informed and that they should contact each individual in a timely manner to explain the options available to them. The issue of zero and negative interest rates concerns futures and unregulated savings accounts. For the latter, which are available to most savers, it is impossible to impose such rates. A credit institution which markets an account as a regulated savings account is legally bound to comply with all the rules laid down in Article 2 of the Royal Decree of 27 August 1993, including the rules on minimum remuneration. Therefore, if the account is marketed as a regulated savings account, it must contain one of 0,1 % and 0,01 %. If the account has not been marketed in this form, there is no legal requirement for banks to grant a minimum fee for the deposit. Belgium is one of the few European countries to have a system of regulated savings accounts with a minimum interest rate of 0.11% determined by royal decree and a tax decision. The banks place their surplus assets with the European Central Bank. They must pay a negative interest rate on that amount. This is a European incentive to activate money on savings accounts, in the hope that they will lead to more investment. More and more banks are forced to pass penalty interest on to their customers. According to the sector, this is an economic phenomenon following the policy of the European Central Bank. However, banks are not obliged to offer regulated savings accounts, although most of them do. Moreover, not all banks in Belgium offer this product. It is generally a flagship product in the supply of large banks and, from a market point of view, it is therefore not appropriate to abandon the interest rate of 0.11% and the tax deduction. The saving consumer therefore legally retains his benefits if he opts for a regulated savings account. I have absolutely no intention of calling this system into question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic691x.u5	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for reporting on the situation and for your informal contacts with Febelfin, the Minister of Finance and other relevant sectors. Like you, I think information is essential. Too often, and especially in this committee, we realize that consumers are not fully informed and do not have the right information at the right time. I am therefore pleased to hear that the bank undertakes to contact each customer individually to report the changes. This is the case for the purpose of this question, but it should always be the case when a change is made to one or the other banking agency. Even if the zero or negative rate is not currently applicable to the regulated accounts, we need to be more vigilant. Such rates must never come to light at home in Belgium, because it would not be normal for savers to be punished in the future by negative rates on these regulated accounts, especially since, I would remind you, the banking sector is not the most to complain about and the dividends paid each year – both to shareholders and to the members of the various management committees – prove that efforts in favour of consumers are possible, desirable and demanded.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic691x.u6	Mrs Van Bossuyt, the distribution of gas and electricity, the licensing of supplies and the system of emergency suppliers are a regional competence. The subject of your question, the re-entry into the market of a supplier who had left the market earlier, is also a regional competence and is thus determined by the regions. There is currently no regulated price or price formula for emergency delivery. The regulation of energy prices is a federal competence and in particular a competence of my colleague, Minister Van der Straeten. As regards switching to another energy supplier, according to existing federal law, customers have the right to change supplier at any time without a cancellation fee and with a notice period of up to one month. Those who change energy suppliers following a cessation or bankruptcy should also ask for a retroactive contract in order to minimise its financial impact.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic691x.u7	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply and your clarification. Since this was a problem within the Brussels-Capital Region, I will pass on the question to my colleagues in the Brussels Parliament. As far as the change of energy supplier following bankruptcy is concerned, I think it is important that consumers are properly informed, but we have already discussed this in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic691x.u8	The Economic Inspectorate has launched several investigations in response to notifications received from consumers about energy suppliers, including a supplier selling distance contracts, while ignoring the regulatory framework. Those studies are ongoing and are expected to last a few weeks. In view of the obligation of professional secrecy, the Economic Inspectorate cannot provide further details on this matter. As regards the energy sector in general, the Economic Inspection received 3.728 notifications in 2021 and 696 notifications in 2022. Most notifications, 84 %, relate to non-respect of the call-me-not-list by call centres that try to sell energy contracts over the phone. Other notifications relate to misleading or unfair practices associated with the sale, modification or change of a contract. I myself have already had some contacts and plans with energy suppliers to remind them of the sometimes rather aggressive attitude of some of their subcontractors. At the end of 2021, the Economic Inspectorate prepared a report against one supplier who signed the Consumer Agreement but did not respect the provisions of the Agreement. As I have already announced, I have asked the Economic Inspectorate to be particularly vigilant with regard to commercial practices in the current context. Together with Minister Van der Straeten and Minister Dermagne, I am also working on the revision of the consumer agreement. The survey has already been completed and we are looking at the concrete points and actions. At present, only 10 suppliers subscribe to the consumer agreement. The aim is to obtain a sectoral consumer agreement so that consumers are optimally protected against possible misleading or aggressive practices in their relationship with energy suppliers. It will also pay due attention to communication with consumers so that they are aware of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic691x.u9	Madam Secretary of State, these are indeed poignant situations. Everyone has already received emails from people who feel deceived by energy suppliers who try to sell contracts in a rather aggressive way. I'm glad you ordered the Economic Inspectorate to investigate that. We look forward to the results of that. The consumer agreement is indeed an important issue. There are very good rules in it, but it is a pity that only 10 suppliers actually sign it. Yesterday, in the Committee on Energy, draft laws were adopted with a number of levers for consumers to increase transparency in advance invoices. More time to look at an advance invoice and whether or not to agree is also an important measure to strengthen the consumer. If we find that not many energy suppliers are inclined to sign and apply the consumer agreement, perhaps we should proceed to transpose those rules into laws, then they apply to everyone. Yesterday I called for the consumer to be properly informed about rights and obligations, especially with the new draft law that was adopted yesterday. A consumer awareness and information campaign is certainly desirable in these difficult times in terms of energy prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic691x.u10	Mrs Dierick, both the Economic Inspectorate and the Financial Services Ombudsperson and the Belgian Financial Sector Federation indicate that they have no knowledge of cases of contactless theft in Belgium. It is useful that consumers were informed about the theoretical possibility of this phenomenon through the reportage of Factcheckers, but in practice there seems to be no reason for concern. If I would still receive signals of a real danger, I will of course set up the necessary information campaign to inform consumers. As indicated in the reportage, such transactions are easily traceable because the payment terminal is linked to the account number of the holder. Those who are still victims of contactless theft are entitled to full reimbursement by the bank, unless the bank can prove that the customer has acted fraudulently. This follows from the rules for unauthorised payment transactions. In case of contactless theft, it is difficult to be grossly negligent because there is no PIN. Victims who do have problems with reimbursement can contact the ombudsfin. Finally, I would like to give three more tips to those consumers who would still be worried about paying contactless. There are wallets or card holders that protect against Radio Frequency Identification of Near-field communication. Those who have no confidence in contactless payments at all may ask their bank to disable this functionality or lower the daily limits. Finally, it is also appropriate to regularly check his account extracts in order to detect any unauthorised transactions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic691x.u11	Madam Secretary of State, I'm glad there haven't been any complaints. I was a little surprised when I saw that reportage and it made me feel really weird. I am a great supporter of electronic and contactless payment. The more we can stimulate that, the better. We are also taking initiatives to this end. If such reports are broadcast, this will create mistrust of the consumer, which we must avoid. I am therefore reassured that it has not yet happened in Belgium and that you are giving consumers tips to avoid this in the future. Also, the fact that if it were to happen there could be a refund from the bank will create more confidence and reassure the worried consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic691x.u12	Debates of the European Parliament 55024719C by Mrs Jadin will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic691x.u13	Mr. Prévot, each bank defines its minimum requirements individually taking into account the Windows operating system policy so that customers can continue to use their computers safely through security updates. Without these security updates, computer usage is much more risky. It can be the target of malware and other vulnerabilities that can lead to hacks, viruses, etc. My colleague, Minister Dermagne, and I are aware of the difficulties faced by some consumers who are more vulnerable to technological means. That is why, together with the administration, we are ensuring that measures are taken to ensure that all citizens have access to banking services. This is in particular the objective pursued by the Charter on Universal Banking, which is particularly aimed at consumers who do not have adequate IT equipment or support, or sufficient knowledge of the subject. Belfius allows customers to perform banking operations safely on a computer equipped with Windows 8 or a higher version. On the mobile bank, the bank currently sets as minimum conditions to use iOS 13 and Android 7 operating systems on smartphones. According to Febelfin, this puts the bank in line with the market. The general principle is that the online bank must have a high degree of security. This is why banks insist on the use of operating systems supported by Microsoft, Google or Apple. When they no longer offer support, the risk of spreading malware or spyware increases considerably, which leads to risks for the client and the bank. According to Febelfin, the entire banking sector imposes requirements related to similar operating systems on its customers. This policy is therefore not exclusive to Belfius.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic691x.u14	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. Of course, I hear the need for banking agencies to be at the forefront in order to avoid piracy systems, or the phenomenon such as phishing, for example, which we have already had the opportunity to talk about in this committee. I am well aware of the whole security aspect. The difficulty with this kind of thing is that everything is in everything. I have been arrested by several citizens in relation to their bank account at Belfius. Elderly people had acquired or had been able to retrieve from a friend or family a computer with a somewhat old operating system. They forced themselves to switch to digitalisation because the services were no longer provided in a banking agency, when they were going physically, nor because of the terminals which are unfortunately increasingly rare, especially in some rural areas, but not only. What should therefore be retained from this question and from this problem is that if we understand the difficulty of securing access for everyone, and this need for banking agencies to be on the page, we must, of course, always be able to provide an equivalent service to all consumers. When we took the step of trying digitalization, which may not always be obvious to some people, and we can no longer have access to it because the operating system is no longer up to date, it is double or even triple penalty, because there are no more banking services when we go physically to the agency and the terminals are missing. At that time, unfortunately, there are second-class citizens who cannot benefit from the same services as everyone else. We need to be very careful about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic691x.u15	Madam Secretary of State, it is sometimes said that the Fleming was born with a brick in his stomach or that his own home is the best apple for thirst. These proverbs show that building is very important for the citizens. Buying, building or remodeling a property is one of the most important and often most expensive decisions in their lives. Unfortunately, we find that some contractors are not so strict. In a reportage on television it appeared that some contractors were easily declared bankrupt and then re-entered the same activity under a different name. An investigation also showed that contractors do not take it very closely with the rules. Last year, the construction sector had the highest number of bankruptcies. That can, of course, be for all kinds of reasons. This also involves fraud more often than in other sectors. In particular, there is a 5% risk of fraud. Of course, there are also many good contractors and certainly should not be generalised. Madam Secretary of State, do you acknowledge that there is a problem with malicious contractors in the construction sector? Builders don't know where to deal with their complaints. They often fall between two chairs. There is currently no ombud service for construction crime. Can you explain why it isn't there yet? There were plans for that once. Are you planning an initiative on this? How will you better protect consumers from construction offences and malicious construction companies? Do you think that ten-year liability for contractors should be evaluated?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic691x.u16	Madam Secretary of State, a report by Pano mentioned numerous malpractices in the construction sector. Many contractors follow fraudulent practices and shun their responsibilities by going bankrupt over and over again. That also gives the good contractors a bad name. Last week I received a report from a victim who lost 24,000 euros and already 6,000 euros to lawyers. That's 30,000 euros already. The courts don't seem to want to help that person the way they're supposed to. In your policy paper, you mentioned the insolvency risk of contractors. You also announced measures on major renovations of buildings with an amendment to the Breyne Act. Madam Secretary of State, has the analysis you would make been completed? What findings have you come to? What initiatives will you take? Is there a bill in the making yet? When can we expect that in committee? You're talking about major renovations in your policy paper. Do you therefore take into account the smaller renovation works in which the client decides to hire several contractors? Can these consumers also count on protection? The Breyne Act will not apply. How will they be protected?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic691x.u17	Madam Secretary of State, I think it is important that the fraudulent players are found in the market, rather than after the facts. If not, it will harm not only the sector but also the people or the builder, who loses his savings. Madam Secretary of State, how do you see the problem in the sector? How many reports have you received in recent years? Do you see any recidivists there? What initiatives will you take to protect the building consumer and enforce the rules? Will you discuss appropriate sanctions with the Minister of Justice? What is your view and that of the government on a database of fraudulent bankrupts or persons with a professional ban in the construction sector, who can consult consumers? Will you also consult with the sector organisations in the construction sector? It is reported that they have put forward a proposal to help individuals identify crooked figures and to work preventively. That is why they want to talk to the competent public authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic691x.u18	I am also shocked by the bankruptcy fraud that came to light in Pano's report last week. We have to protect consumers from this, as much as possible. I had already included consumer protection in construction as a priority in my policy paper for this year. Last week's Pano report shows that that was a right choice. The administration started an in-depth analysis of the main problems in the construction sector last year. The Special Consultative Commission on Consumption is also working on an opinion. Furthermore, I am personally in contact with the sector and with various stakeholders. Although some cases are purely criminal in nature and are therefore more than just a violation of consumer protection, I certainly want to take action under my authority. I've already developed three possible thinking paths. Firstly, consumers must be better protected against bankruptcy and insolvency. I am currently investigating whether the Breyne Act can be strengthened in this area. That law already offers extensive protection to anyone who has a house built, buys a house still to be built or buys a house under construction. It lays down the rules on advances, payments in instalments and also provides financial guarantees in the event of bankruptcy. There is already compulsory insolvency insurance in a number of sectors. I will see if it would be appropriate for the construction sector as well. Secondly, I want to protect consumers from advertisements from malicious contractors by, for example, cooperating with large search platforms, by analogy with what I have done before in connection with malicious locksmiths. Thirdly, I want to find out how consumers can be more easily informed about a contractor. In itself, a lot of information can be obtained from the Crossroads Bank of enterprises, but this needs to be made more accessible. There are applications both in the sector and in the public sector to check whether a contractor has social or fiscal debts. I would also like to see an investigation into whether consumers would be more easily able to consult them. Unfortunately, rules alone are never enough. It is therefore important to ensure efficient and effective enforcement. Infringements of the Breyne Act cannot currently be enforced by inspection services. I would therefore like to make sure that this aspect is not in need of revision. As regards the specific questions, the Economic Inspectorate has received a total of 77 notifications over the past five years through the FPS Economy hotline, which explicitly refers to fraud in the construction sector. These are mainly frauds, counterfeit invoices and sales fraud. However, no significant increase in the number of annual reports can be observed. There is already a conciliation committee on construction, which can decide on disputes of a technical nature. For contractual disputes, the Consumer Ombudsman is competent. The imposition and publication of a professional ban transcends the problem of malicious construction companies and consumer protection and should therefore, together with the competent ministers, be considered in a broader social and legal context. Construction or renovation works, which are currently not covered by the Breyne Act, are also included in the ongoing analyses. So I will not confine myself to the great general works. Finally, the role of the architect must not be forgotten. He or she is the representative of the builder and must therefore follow his interests. In many cases, and for example in cases cited in the Pano reportage, he or she will be able to protect the builder from such situations thanks to his or her knowledge of the sector and daily follow-up of the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic691x.u19	It is good that a thorough analysis of the major construction crimes is planned this year. I hope that we will be able to discuss this analysis here in committee. I think that's interesting. A great deal of intervention is needed, even though only 77 notifications have been received. Perhaps not everyone is taking the step to report or they do not know how to do what. In my view, the problem is greater than what the 77 reports suggest in five years' time. That's what the reportage shows. In its aftermath, people also send mails containing the story of what they have experienced themselves. It is a major problem that will not be solved with one measure. The legislation will need to be adapted in several areas to deal with crooked entrepreneurs. This would be a good thing not only for consumers but also for the contractors who do work by the book. They too have every interest in tackling cowboys. We look forward to the initiatives you will take in this area and to what my group is asking for.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic691x.u20	Madam Secretary of State, you say that you want to analyse the problem thoroughly and that you will take action. I always wonder when we will get the results. I hope that the matter will be dealt with very urgently and that there will be a deadline for analysis and action. You also note that enforcement is often a problem and that the matter needs to be looked at with your colleagues. That makes me fear that the matter will be postponed, because when will this consultation take place? There is work to be done to make things more concrete. Apparently, there have been only 77 infringements in the last five years, but that seems too little compared to reality. We therefore need to inform consumers better about where they can go.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic691x.u21	Madam Secretary of State, you say that only 77 reports came in, but I think that's just the tip of the iceberg. Each consumer has been swindled for tens of thousands of euros. You stress the need to adapt the Breyne Act and you also want to take into account those who select a contractor themselves in the analysis. You also count on the goodwill of the architects for a piece, but the use of an architect is not always necessary in a renovation. You are currently working on this analysis, but I have not heard a concrete timetable when you come to committee with a draft law to resolve the problem. It is very likely that one of the major problems is that we no longer have to prove the profession today. So everyone can play contractor today without having the necessary knowledge and background. By the way, how is it possible that someone can go bankrupt again and again and still carry out a different activity in construction every time: today one is occupied, tomorrow electrician and the day after tomorrow something else. You say that consumers can easily check whether there are social debts, among other things. Contractors are smart enough to pay their VAT, taxes and social debts on time, because in the event of bankruptcy such things are not changed. They'll have to pay for it at the end of the ride. A consumer will not immediately see whether he or she can expect a problem. The fact that suppliers of the contractor in question are not paid or that consumers have been defrauded may be evidence. A deeper analysis of this broader issue is therefore needed. I hope that it will not be an analysis this year, but that you will also come up with a concrete draft law, because that is much needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic691x.u22	Madam Secretary of State, I am glad that you are taking a very pragmatic approach and that you are analysing it. I would also like to know when we can expect the results. You are considering compulsory insolvency insurance, but we must ensure that bona fide contractors do not face all kinds of obligations as a result of the actions of the 5 % malicious contractors. We must tackle the crooked contractors and not impose additional obligations on the many contractors who do their work very well and reliably. It is also important that consumers are surrounded professionally. You say that only 77 cases are reported and I therefore think that many people do not dare to identify the problems, perhaps because they have not done everything properly or because they have made a wrong order. They may even have taken the risk of choosing a contractor that is not reliable. So we have to be careful that we do it right. Perhaps we should re-introduce vocational training requirements. It is certainly important that we focus on the crooked contractors and that we do not impose any additional obligations on the contractors who do their job well. An important tip for each consumer is to ask the contractor for references. If you ask for two telephone numbers of references, you will already find out a lot. For example, there is already some chance of a reliable feedback on the contractor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic691x.u23	Mrs Van Bossuyt, at the moment there are 992 companies that have insurance against insolvency under Belgian travel legislation. As regards the number of travel companies that could not renew their insurance contract, it is not possible to give a concrete figure. 76 policies were terminated with effect from 31 December 2021, but also part before and after. That's a continuous process. However, this does not mean that all these companies are not, can or could be re-insured. Indeed, some of these companies have ceased, settled, declared bankrupt, have since been insured elsewhere or have received a provisional policy pending an additional capital increase and/or bank guarantee. The premiums of certain travel companies may have been increased. Others were asked to raise their guarantees or own capital, but the administration does not have any information that would indicate an average increase of 50% in premiums. Of course, the revision of these conditions is linked to the corona pandemic and the increased risks that apply to the whole travel sector. Insurance companies are free to conclude contracts. The government can't interfere. At my insistence, insurers have promised not to take the poor financial situation of their customers' corona years 2020 and 2021 as the sole criterion. Travel companies that do not have a valid insolvency insurance scheme shall not sell package trips or linked travel arrangements, as provided for in the Law of 21 November 2017. The Economic Inspectorate will monitor this, as it is a European obligation that is crucial for the protection of travellers. The Royal Decree of 29 May 2018 imposes certain minimum conditions on insurance against insolvency, including providing that the policyholder's own resources must reach 15% of the balance sheet total after deduction of the intangible or difficult assets, unless the policyholder provides an additional bank guarantee, without the own resources being less than EUR 25,000. Depending on the risk situation of a travel company, the insurer may ask for additional guarantees, such as a bank guarantee, to still grant insurance. This depends on a case-by-case basis and must be negotiated between the travel operator and the insurer. As regards the reform of the insolvency insurance system, the work is in full swing, together with and under the direction of my colleague Dermagne. I can tell you in advance that the intention is to keep the current insolvency insurers on board and also to attract new insurers by slightly reducing the risk to be insured and keeping them insurable, with a role of the government. This should lead to more competition in the insurance market and to travel companies that can take out insurance at more competitive prices. Both the banking and travel sectors have already responded positively. As soon as everything is ready and the necessary advisory procedures have been completed, I can communicate about this. There is no legal obligation to take out insolvency insurance through group insurance, either at the moment or for the future. Each travel company may individually take out insolvency insurance from an insurer offering it. However, I am attentive to any actors and intermediaries who distort fair market functioning or who are in a situation of conflict of interest. In order to create a more competitive and attractive travel insurance market, I will focus this year on monitoring as much transparency and objectivity as possible in this sector. An insurance against calamities is neither legally imposed nor regulated. This is a private initiative to cover the own costs of travel companies when certain situations of force majeure arise, such as natural disasters, terrorism and strikes. Each travel undertaking shall be free to take out such insurance whenever it so wishes. This is not currently part of the planned legislative amendment. The European Commission's comprehensive analysis of the current regulatory framework for package travel, including all pain points revealed by the coronapandemic has not yet been completed. This will, in particular, provide a basis for a possible amendment of the package travel directive, and hence also of our legislation. I follow this closely and will raise this again at the informal Consumer Protection Summit in Strasbourg on Friday and increase the pressure on the European Commission. As far as the insolvency system of the Netherlands is concerned, there appears to have been no reform. Last year, however, the so-called GSC contribution was re-introduced. Anyone booking a trip will contribute 5 euros to the Dutch guarantee fund. In Germany, however, the insolvency system was reformed in the sense that a sectoral guarantee fund was set up which is partly financed with the help of the public authorities. We are taking this very seriously in view of the ongoing review of our own legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic691x.u24	Madam Secretary of State, you say that you do not have specific figures on who may or may not have found insurance again. Moreover, travel organisations are obliged to have this insurance in order to be able to continue their activities. That surprises me, to be honest, because I have already received figures from the sector. And frankly, they don't vote very comfortably. Travel organisations that have received insolvency insurance often pay a lot more than before. It can be said that it is a very risky sector. That will be the case, but the main problem is that at the moment there is only one insurer offering this insurance, which means that it has virtually a monopoly position and, so to speak, can ask what it wants, as tour operators need insurance to be able to continue their activities. I have already heard tragic stories from the sector, from often small self-employed people. Everyone thinks about large travel organisations when it comes to travel, but it is very often about small self-employed people. I belong to people who have to go up to the notary to see how they can still borrow or refinance in order to get that insurance. This sector has already been severely affected by corona. I honestly wonder where these people keep getting the energy. There is a need for additional support for this sector, for example by ensuring that such insolvency insurance is effectively obtained. That wouldn't be misplaced. You also talked about the reforms that are coming, in cooperation with Minister Dermagne's cabinet. Madam Secretary of State, with all due respect, but the experience we have in this committee when there is a need for cooperation between two Cabinets, is not determined to write about it home. That is not the model of how to proceed quickly. I hope this can prove otherwise. I sincerely hope so. After all, we see that it is possible in our neighbouring countries. I referred to Germany in my question, and you referred to it in your reply. In the meantime, a system has already been set up there. It's a shame it must take so long for all of us. You say that you will closely monitor transparency and objectivity in the sector. That is indeed important, but let it be a problem, for example, in obtaining insolvency insurance. We heard of organisations that do not receive insolvency insurance, while they are perfectly healthy, and are therefore blacklisted. It will only be experienced that his life's work, on which one has worked with heart and soul, will be blacklisted. They often don't know why they can't get insolvency insurance, while others, who may be financially less healthy, can get insurance. Within the sector there really is a feeling that it is now a bit à la carte and that there is no system at all, which certainly does not benefit the confidence of those people. Finally, with regard to the European reforms that are on the way, you say that on Friday you will point out again at European level that a solution must indeed be found. That's good. However, please do not let us wait for that to ensure that the healthy organisations can have insolvency insurance. I am certainly not saying that travel organisations that are not financially sound should be able to obtain such insurance. We need to ensure that the healthy organisations can have insolvency insurance at reasonable prices so that they can continue their activities, because those people do so with heart and soul and in the interests of others, in order to provide them with a pleasant journey.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic691x.u25	Madam Secretary of State, it is now nine months since the government launched the consumer cheque as financial support for a number of groups within society. That is a nice and good initiative, but in practice we see a number of bottlenecks. Paying with the cheques doesn't go smoothly everywhere. This is due not only to their limited acceptance by traders, but also to technical childhood diseases, such as traders who are wrongly listed as participants in the system on platforms and lists. Is there a solution to this? Because consumer cheque and meal cheque are on one card, the consumer cannot choose which one he uses when paying. Is there going to be a technical adjustment for that? VIA also stated through the media that the rapid implementation of the premium creates problems for a number of traders. Have you talked to this authority about this, and if so, what could you learn from this? Do they indicate any other specific problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic691x.u26	Mrs Verhelst, I am already in dialogue with VIA, the umbrella association of publishers of prepaid titles. They recognise that the implementation of consumer cheques can be improved here and there and are open to tackling these problems. According to VIA, EUR 461 million has been spent on consumer cheques, which can be used by 42,304 traders. If consumers and traders find that a store is wrongly listed on the list of participating traders, it is important that they report this to the customer service of the respective publisher. Those lists must be consistent with reality, so that consumers cannot be misled. VIA indicates that the purpose of the roll-out of consumer cheques was to ensure the widest possible merchant network for consumers to use cheques. This was only feasible for traders if it did not lead to additional IT investments. Moreover, it was important for consumers to avoid the cancellation of cheques. That is why the publishers have chosen to integrate consumer cheques into the existing system of cards for meals and ecocheques. Because not all traders have an IT system that allows them to select the debit check, publishers have chosen to use a payment algorithm. The traders who invested extra in an IT system can manually select the type of check that will make the payment. For the others, an algorithm makes that choice. That algorithm slightly differs per publisher, but the basic principle is that the cheques that expire the fastest are debited as a matter of priority. VIA acknowledges that the result of this payment algorithm does not always meet the wishes of the consumer. However, if we weigh it against the more than 1.5 million users of consumer cheques, then this appears to be quite exceptional. The publishers investigate how these numbers can be further minimized by equiping as many traders as possible with an IT system that allows you to select the cheques to be debited. Consumers who are still faced with wrong debiting may contact the publisher's customer service to adjust the situation to their wishes. In general, consumers are advised to consult the publisher's guidelines so that they can determine how they want to spend their consumer cheque.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic691x.u27	Thank you for the very full answer. I am pleased that as Secretary of State, you have taken the cow by the horns and dealt with the problems. The measures taken by the public authorities are there, but if they are not implemented, that is a very unfortunate fact. It is not right that consumers are almost obliged to spend consumer cheques on food, whereas those cheques can also be used in other places, or that due dates are used wrongly. I fully welcome the initiatives and also the fact that everything is being properly followed up. Thank you for your answer. Hopefully the consumer will agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic691x.u28	Mr President, Mr Gilissen, the exoneration clause in the terms of itsme must be assessed against the provisions on unfair competition in contracts with consumers, since in many cases it is a use for private purposes. In doing so, the concrete circumstances and the specific context will be decisive in the assessment. The clause in question also explicitly states that it applies only to the extent permitted and notwithstanding any other provisions in the agreement. Consequently, it is for the court to determine in a specific dispute whether or not the clause constitutes an inappropriate limitation of liability. More generally, I would also like to mention that under the Code of Economic Law certain contractual competitions are prohibited in all circumstances. One of those prohibited competitions are exoneration clauses which relieve the undertaking of its liability for its intent, for its gross negligence or for those of its agents or agents, or subject to force majeure for the non-performance of an undertaking constituting one of the main performances of the contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic691x.u29	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. The digitalisation of our society is moving at a fast pace. More and more people use online services, such as itsme. People's confidence in these services is therefore essential. A limitation to EUR 200 of the liability of a platform such as itsme or an electronic identification platform does not therefore seem to me to be appropriate. Where digital platforms and online services go wrong and thereby harm the user, they must assume their responsibility, even if the damage exceeds 200 euros.
