ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u1	Colleagues, hello and welcome to the question-and-answer to the Minister. I am already telling you that the minister will be here with us until 5:30 p.m., which will allow us to move forward, I hope, in our work because we have a very long list of questions. We will start without further delay with a topical debate on the Open Pharma issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u2	Mr President, Minister, you have surely read the newspapers Le Soir, De Tijd, Médor, which, for four days, have just made inquisitive revelations. I give a few examples: 600,000 euros were offered to a dermatologist by a company producing botox; 100,000 euros were given to a group of cardiologists for a magazine in which a pacemakers producer places his advertisement. But also in our Committee on Reimbursement of Medicinal Products, we learn that members are involved in discussions on the reimbursement of certain medicinal products, while at the same time they are paid tens of thousands of euros to give advice to these firms. Minister, like me, I think you have been very much questioned by all these revelations. It is 875 million euros spent by Big Pharma to sponsor our health care sector, whether in consultancy fees, in donations to patient associations, but also, for the largest amount, in research and development by universities. Not only do the flows from Big Pharma to the health care sector have to question us about the aspect of our dependence on pharmaceutical companies, but another element was also addressed in the survey. These are the lack of transparency and the problems raised: it seems that the tables are not complete. It has often been very difficult to trace the different flows. It also seemed that the AFMPS never really exercised controls over this transparency registry. What was your reaction to the reading of this file? What are you going to do about it? How can we make our public health less dependent on commercial interests? Do you also think that legislation needs to be reviewed at this level? Will you, for example, fund more research at the public level to deal with this influence of pharmaceutical companies? Are you going to empower patient associations? In the end, will you ensure that the AFMPS exercises controls on this registry?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u3	Mr President, Minister, my question is also about the published research in De Tijd and Knack on Open Pharma and the survey which states that EUR 875 million flowed to the health sector in about four years. That sum was divided into 31,754 receivers. It is reported that these are doctors, nurses, pharmacists, universities, hospitals, health sector organisations and patient associations. The research focused on several aspects, including research and development, the legal framework and the interaction between the different actors. Any citizen can, in principle, consult that transparency register via www.betransparent.be. The initiative was managed by the non-profit organisation Mdeon on behalf of the FAGG. Can you explain, Minister, how and in what way this transparency register is monitored? In your view, is that control sufficient, is there sufficient control? To what extent are the various patient associations controlled and the use of funds? It's 134,000 transactions. Boxes of these also include transactions in Articles 111/81, i.e. reimbursement files for innovative medicinal products that are not transparent but are concluded under clause? Is it possible that the resources flow from them? Also medtech companies are covered by the Transparency Register, but will you extend the initiative to products such as diagnostics, PPEs and medical devices?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u4	Mr Minister, my question is about the same research, but I would like to talk more specifically about the website itself, namely www.betransparent.be. Of course, anyone can consult this website. So anyone can consult the Transparency Register. The website is managed by the non-profit organisation Mdeon on behalf of the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products. The transparency platform does not appear to be so transparent. On the one hand, the platform is not user-friendly, on the other hand, there are problems with so-called transparency. No one checks the contents. It's often unclear under what name someone would do anything. Is it a personal title or in the name of the association or company? No one checks whether companies do report, which they are required to do, and which includes fines. If this is not checked, there are likely to be very few fines. In short, there's a lot of limp. Why isn't it checked if companies are reporting? Why aren't the declarations being checked? There appear to be gaps in the relevant law. Do you intend to amend that law? Why is there such a problem of transparency with regard to money flows from the pharmaceutical industry? Do you think that would be more transparent? Why is that, or why not? What steps will you take to achieve this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u5	Minister, I will not go back to the context on which my colleagues have just spoken. However, I have to go back to some of the weaknesses in the BeTransparent system that have been detected through the Open Pharma file: - lack of accessibility; - the possibility of recording data only for the previous three years; - a derogation from the specified obligation of the beneficiaries of the amounts in respect of research and development costs, whereas they would represent about 60 % of the financing; - encoding errors; - incomplete declarations; - above all, the lack of any control of this famous platform. Minister, what conclusions do you draw from this Open Pharma investigation? How do you intend to respond to the deficiencies identified and revealed by the investigation? Have you planned a consultation with the sector on the subject? How does the AFMPS determine its priorities? How is the risk analysis done today? How do you explain that the AFMPS has been able, for five years, to rule out its responsibility to control the BeTransparent platform? Were you aware of that? Did you act in response to this situation and in what way? Are you prepared to amend the legislation providing for this platform to fill the gaps observed today and to clarify the roles and responsibilities of each. If so, have you already set a timetable for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u6	Mr Minister, I have also read the articles and your reaction to them, as have my fellow Members. You said that you need to be re-directed, if necessary. You may not be able to answer my question today, but at the moment it is understandable that this money is given very specific and targeted. Is it conceivable that we should ask the authorities to issue a certain percentage for other purposes........................................................................................................................................................................................... I am thinking of university research, as well as patient associations, which would benefit from this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u7	Mr President, as many questions have been asked, I would like to register for the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u8	Minister, I will also allow myself to speak. My colleagues have already summarized the situation with five very worrying points: the lack of accessibility to the site; the non-existent, incomplete or erroneous statements; doctors camouflaged behind companies or even hospitals; the impossibility of following financial interactions in real time; confusion between the different categories of beneficiaries of industry payments. The lack of control by the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (AFMPS) and the absence of sanctions since 2017 were also highlighted. As a result, there are major concerns about our health care system. I believe it is essential that transparency be present in this area. Such funding and benefits can create a reciprocal relationship between the parties, which is obviously not desirable. It's not healthy for our health care system, nor for patients in particular. They must also be sure that they have medical advice that is absolutely objective and that does not take into account any external factors, such as the intervention of pharmaceutical companies. Minister, do you confirm the flaws reported by the Open Pharma investigation into the betransparent site? What improvements can you make? Don't you think the AFMPS should have more control over the situation and a more rigorous presence on this platform? I know you're currently working on a pharmaceutical pact for the years to come. Can you explain to us what the main lines of action will be and whether a transparency component will be developed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u9	Colleagues, I have, of course, also read these publications thoroughly and I share your concern. You will have noticed that my reaction in Time was quite short and general. That is because I was asked to respond at the last minute, just before the publication. Also today I will be quite short and general. I really want to include this issue fully in the consultation with the pharmaceutical industry within the framework of the pharmaceutical pact. The first point, which Mrs Vanpeborgh raised, is perhaps the most fundamental. What is the dynamics of scientific research in relation to pharmaceuticals? The second point is whether the legislation drawn up during the previous period of government, the Sunshine Act, is adequate or whether there are problems. The third question is what is the control of that. Mrs Vanpeborgh, I think you are right that we as a society should ask ourselves whether we are taking a sufficiently direct approach to the direction of scientific research, which are the priority themes and how the funds are being recruited. I believe that this is a European debate. How does scientific research come about? Can we say that it starts from public health priorities rather than from the question of where there is the highest rate of return in the short term? We really need to engage in this fight at European level. Secondly, and here I am completely out of my powers, I would like to say that I am absolutely in favour of sufficient basic funding of fundamental scientific research at universities, precisely because I believe that we should have beacons of independent scientific research on the basis of societal priorities. We must also ensure that the academic world is not too dependent on contracts with industry. This applies not only to pharmaceuticals, however. However, this goes far beyond my powers, as this concerns the Länder, scientific research and universities. As far as I am concerned, this is an important fundamental debate when we think about the dynamics of scientific research and how it is oriented. Mrs Vanpeborgh, I agree with what you say. If public authorities want to make enough money available for independent scientific research through public funds, then they must be able to collect public funds and levy the necessary taxes and contributions. Secondly, we need to review the legislation that came into force in the previous legislature. I will not judge them today, because I really need to look at them and I want to discuss them with, among other things, the pharmaceutical industry. The way in which this legislation has been interpreted obviously gives rise to a number of limitations on control. You asked, for example, whether the companies are being controlled. It's a voluntary system, so a company indicates on a voluntary basis. Thus, if a company does not report, it does not immediately have an observational lead to say that the company is in error. The company would go wrong if it had to report anything, but it may be that one does not have any observation of it. Is that a good system? That system has been very explicitly launched on the basis of volunteering, which, of course, limits the type of controls some people think of here. It can be seen that a company does not indicate anything, but it cannot be decided that the company is in breach. One can only decide that the company does not report anything. It is also mentioned that there are wrong codings. That must indeed be investigated. It is one of the issues raised in the investigation that I will discuss with the people of the FAGG and the parties involved. If there are wrong codings, it should be relatively easy to correct in principle. I'll be sure to record that with them. There is also the wider question of whether one is trying to find out whether companies that do not give up should give up something? I'll talk to the people of the FAGG about that. I believe that this is also due to the priorities set by the FAGG. The question is whether this should be higher on the FAGG's priority list. Can we put this higher on that list at the FAGG? That's what I'm talking to them about. At present, the FAGG controls are carried out mainly following complaints in the context of Article 10 of the pharmaceutical law, which includes Mdeon. In practice, these are very specific situations, specific premiums or benefits, hospitality at a specific conference and specific publicity. I think I should look at the FAGG's enforcement practice here, based on the possibilities and on a correct analysis of the extent to which this should be considered a priority. I will discuss with the people of the FAGG on that basis whether a correction of enforcement practice is necessary. Apart from this specific legislation, I believe that there is indeed a question of deontology and transparency with regard to scientific research in the field of the development of pharmaceuticals or the use of certain pharmaceuticals. I think that question does arise. This is in my agenda for the negotiations on the pharmaceutical pact. I therefore intend to engage effectively in dialogue with the pharmaceutical industry on this issue. The question is to what extent we can do better in terms of deontology and transparency. I already gave a preliminary reaction to De Tijd. There I said that if, in the consultations I would like to discuss this with the pharmaceutical industry, we see that improvements and refinements are needed in the legislation and in the way enforcement is organised, or both, we will also implement it. This is, of course, very important for the public's confidence in our scientists, our care providers and our hospitals, on the one hand, and in the proprietary medicinal products that are being developed and offered on the other. Mr President, this is a first general reaction. As you yourself said, I think this should come up as an important theme in the pharmaceutical pact. I would like to add, not as a cheap excuse, but because it is a reality, that with the pharmaceutical pact I have fallen considerably behind in terms of timing. That is one of the many yards that have been postponed for the sake of COOVID-19. However, I met pharma.be last week. I have spoken with them about launching real consultations on a pharmaceutical pact, and I hope to be able to spend more time there in the next period, as we are fortunately less concerned with COOVID-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u10	Thank you, Minister. The meeting is scheduled for next fall, to discuss further with you the pharmaceutical pact.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u11	Minister, you are talking about the need to think about the independence of research, and you have found a partner in me. I think that is indeed a very important point, in which we support the PTB. What is related to the Sunshine Act is your responsibility, as the file shows. For now, the search data is like a black box. This is the first way to improve this legislative framework. You're saying you're going to talk to the AFMPS. According to the file, no checks were ever carried out. If you are not yet convinced that this is necessary after reading certain revelations, I advise you to read them again. This must be one of the priorities of the AFMPS to monitor whether the legislation is well respected and to improve it at the level of what is encoded or not. In substance, I hear you talking about a pact with the pharmaceutical industry. I think the first pact you have to make is with citizens and health care workers, who want to do the best they can, without the influence of pharmaceutical companies. I do not understand the reason for this pact with the pharmaceutical industry. It is a matter of being lucid: the pharmaceutical industry does not act out of charity. The amounts that are distributed in consultation pose major problems in terms of our independence. You did not mention the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products. You have to take this into your own hands, and not just by talking to the firms. We know what they want, now it is up to us to know what we want and how we want to build this independence. With the kiwi model, the PTB proposes not only to break prices for medicines, but also to set up a commission that is truly independent. The Court of Auditors has stated that this would be interesting because it would reduce conflicts of interest with pharmaceutical companies. There is a real avenue to explore here, and I have no doubt that we will come back to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u12	Mr Minister, that was indeed a lean answer, which worries me somewhat, by the way. Of course, the government can move ahead with priority health objectives, so that research can be carried out or facilitated on the basis of certain tax advantages or agreements with the pharmaceutical sector. That is what the Flemish government is doing to a large extent. When I look at the figures, I see that in Flanders nearly EUR 2 billion is spent on research and development and that the federal government is only against this EUR 583 million. You state that the federal government wants to give the universities sufficient resources to conduct independent research. However, you will have to put your money in your pocket. It is more than a cliché and an independent investigation that should be advocated for cooperation. You state yourself that you are delayed with the pharmaceutical pact. In this case, however, there is a need to talk and to put forward priorities for both public authorities and industry. We are in third place in Europe in the field of clinical studies. This means that our patients and care providers also have much faster access to innovation. That is a position we absolutely must cherish. One real problem is that you did not answer me about whether part of those EUR 874 million were not covered by Articles 111 and 81. You know, as I do, that certain agreements also facilitate the start-up of a new medicine and that certain doctors in a particular hospital help to start up patients. It may well be so, but you do not know whether it is at least not controlled, that some of the resources come from there effectively. That should therefore also be clarified. Finally, Minister, I would like to refer once again to the questions on the FAGG's organization chart. Here you give a nice example of the fact that this organisation is not optimally organized to ensure its operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u13	Minister, I must join my colleagues in giving a rather vague answer. You're gonna sit down with the people involved and the pharmaceutical pact is slowing down a little bit. It is an old very that there is a great deal of secrecy about the contracts with the pharmaceutical sector. There is a transparency platform, but apparently that lacks its purpose. The law must therefore be amended. At present, there is transparency on a voluntary basis, but this should be mandatory, similar to, for example, the mandate declaration. If this report is not filed, there will be reprimands and fines. Why couldn't we do the same here? We are not opposed to investment by the pharmaceutical industry, because they can stimulate innovation, but that must be correct and transparent. In particular, there must be transparency with regard to patients, who will then be able to fully inform themselves and determine whether the medicine is best for them and not for the pharmaceutical industry or for the doctor. After all, the patient must always be at the heart of our healthcare system. We must also bear in mind that it is about large sums of money and that the industry certainly does not do that out of charity. I'm sure there'll be something to that. The return on investment needs to be investigated. That transparency platform is therefore well-meant but actually lacks its purpose. We know that there are large financial flows, but we don't know what the impact of the pharmaceutical industry on our health care system is. That should be the intention of that platform. The task of the government is, on the one hand, to ensure that patients receive the resources that are best for them, what the doctor or specialist should decide and not the pharmaceutical industry. On the other hand, it is the responsibility of the government to invest in research and innovation and to strike a healthy balance between what the pharmaceutical industry can sponsor and what the government considers important enough to put forward, without a great deal of secrecy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answer, but also for your openness. In fact, I note mainly from your answer that you recognize the usefulness of an assessment of the possible shortcomings of the law that introduced this famous betransparent platform, as well as of its functioning, in order to draw conclusions from it. You even talk about "corrections" – these are your words. It is already problematic for these companies to notify on a voluntary basis the data they are legally obliged to report. Do you think they should be encouraged to pass them on differently? Should incentives be more financial, for example? You also tell us that the control is currently exercised by the AFMPS, only as a result of complaints. Do you have any information on the number of checks that could have been carried out since 2017, precisely on the same basis? Should it not be considered inadequate and should, on the contrary, be carried out systematically and regularly? In addition, you mention a willingness to discuss it with the AFMPS. It was not clear from your answer that these discussions had already taken place or were simply planned. On the other hand, you have not touched on points which seem essential to me. I am thinking, in particular, of the possible extension of the time limit within which the data which are published remain publicly available in the Transparency Register, in order to achieve this objective of transparency pursued by the law. I also hear your willingness to participate in a European debate on the question of the independence of research and scientific investigations. Could it not take place within the framework of this famous "Health Europe" which I have already had the opportunity to discuss with you? Indeed, research is a central issue. At the same time, this discussion must be organized nationally, since there is a bellgo-belge problem with the AFMPS. Finally, you stressed the importance of the independence of the research that needs to be preserved. Can this issue not find its place in the Interdepartmental Conference on Health? I mean, at that time, you are leaving your responsibilities, since higher education is the responsibility of the federated entities. However, from the moment you express a political will, it may be necessary to take advantage of this opportunity to share it with your counterparts in federated entities. In any case, I think that, failing that, it would be a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u15	Minister, it seems to me important to address three aspects here. First, with regard to the Transparency Register, there is a twofold problem. On the one hand, there are a number of errors or incomplete or non-incomplete declarations; on the other hand, there are insufficient checks. The rule should therefore be clarified and controls strengthened. Secondly, there is today – in my opinion, fortunately for a number of projects – a partnership with the pharmaceutical industry. To conclude that when there is support from the pharmaceutical sector, it automatically means that there is a loss of independence of the health actors and academic studies carried out is, in my view, not correct. It is, of course, our duty and responsibility to ensure that we do so. Compared to this, the fact that statements remain fairly general does not allow for a number of questions to be asked. It seems to me that we should not throw the baby away with the bath water but, on the contrary, clarify a number of points. Finally, this also highlights the lack of public funding. I am thinking, for example, of patient associations, which do a remarkable job with patients and their families. I am thinking of Sciensano, who obviously also received funding. I am also thinking of the lack of public funding from research, universities, both in terms of basic research and clinical research. This must therefore also question the policy on how it should redeploy sufficient support in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u16	Minister, a survey of Christian mutuality has shown a rather worrying finding, as the rate of re-entry of newborns into hospitals has increased from 4.8% between 2010 and 2014 to 5.9% between 2015 and 2019. Mutuality evokes many justifications for this increase. The length of stay has been reduced in maternity wards. But it also refers to the socio-economic vulnerability of families or to other factors such as age and the existence of co-morbidities among mothers. In order to reduce the number of readmissions, mutuality recommends that further postnatal follow-up be carried out before deciding whether to return to the mother's and child's home. Minister, has the reduction in maternity leave been assessed by your services? If so, what are the conclusions and possible recommendations? What do you think of the thorough postnatal follow-up evoked by Christian mutuality? Is this type of follow-up not already in place? Is it already in place in some maternity wards? If so, what are the best practices in this area? What are the conclusions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u17	Mrs Merckx, I suggest you ask your two questions in one salve.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u18	Mr President, I have indeed attached my two questions. They cover both the study of Christian mutuality and the project to close small maternity hospitals. In September and December of last year, the CM study department examined the evolution of the increasingly shorter maternity homes, and whether there are risks associated with these shorter intakes. The study showed that Mrs De Block's decision seven years ago to shorten the stay in maternity wards has increased the number of babies' re-raptures by almost 6%. The CM clearly states in its conclusions that there has indeed been an increase in the re-uptake of mothers and babies in our country from before to after the introduction of Minister De Block's policy to speed up the reduction of the stay in the maternity ward. The KCE already insisted that a shortened stay in the maternity ward should be accompanied by a thorough post-natal follow-up. It is out of the question to pursue the trend of shorter stays in the maternity ward beyond reasonable, only for savings reasons. The study of CM also showed that another major cause for re-recording is the socio-economic health gap. Parents' mothers and babies with increased benefits are more likely to end up back in the hospital. "Inequality begins in the cradle," wrote De Standaard. Luc van Gorp referred to the figures as alarming. It is the socio-economically weaker families who are the main victims of re-entry, especially if the stay is shortened and there is not enough follow-up after that. So I come to my second question, Minister, concerning the smaller sizes to be closed: is this going to get worse? When Mrs. De Block announced in January 2020 that she wanted to close 17 smaller sizes, a gynecologist from one of the threatened materials wrote an opinion piece in De Standaard, in which he stated: "A quarter of the people we are dealing with are disadvantaged. It would be wrong to allow the smaller sizes to be incorporated into mastodons. The vulnerable group would be anonymous there again." I have already told you about this, Minister, and you said that you wanted to make the savings on the materials effectively. You did say that you would release EUR 10 million for perinatal care. The question is whether you really want to pursue those savings plans for the smaller sizes. Mrs De Sutter, your government partner, said last Friday, following a visit to the maternity ward of the AZ Oudenaarde, that she disagreed with the plan to close the smaller sizes. She also warned that not everyone has a car to drive to a greater materiality, 30 minutes away. Also your own party in Ronse and Oudenaarde, Vooruit, is against the plans to close the two sizes. They've been protesting that for months. So I have the following questions. What do you think of the results of the CM-studies? Will you make the savings on the materials? Clearly, the government is not on the same page. What sizes will or will not be closed? Which ones can stay open? Do you think that EUR 10 million is sufficient for the perinatal care pathway, given the needs that exist? How do you reconcile these investments with the closure of the materials? Socio-economically weaker families will be the first victims when you close the small sizes. You not only want to close the smaller sizes, but also in general more bets on shortened hospital rooms. Will you continue to bet on that in terms of mothers who give birth?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u19	Minister, I was following this issue under the previous legislature and Minister De Block had already decided to reduce the length of maternity stays. Last February, the Christian Mutuality had the opportunity to publish a study demonstrating the harmful effects of this decision on the ground: more mothers must be readmitted to the hospital within 30 days of leaving it. This proportion increased from 1.1% between 2010 and 2014 to 1.3% between 2015 and 2019. At the same time, more babies need to be re-admitted to the hospital. Other factors influence this trend, such as the socio-economic level of parents. Babies with increased intervention, i.e. parents are more disadvantaged, have 40 per cent more risks than others of being re-admitted to hospital within 30 days of birth. This prompted the Vice-President of Christian Mutuality to state that it was fundamental to assess on a case-by-case basis the family's ability to implement adequate postnatal follow-up in the decision to return mothers and babies home. CHU Saint-Pierre is very committed to this issue as its teams take far more precautions to be able to surround this more pre-carried target audience in order to ensure the best possible follow-up at the pre- and post-natal levels. This is even more worrying in the light of your hospital reform plan, which aims to reduce the number of maternity leavers. One of the fears of the land in the face of such a reduction is the desire of some families to seek childbirth in a more family and empathetic setting and thus to give birth at home, which is not without risk since complications are never inevitable. Minister, how has the issue of the growth of readmissions for certain target audiences been taken into account in your famous reform plan, including your willingness to close small maternity wards? Will the reduction of these maternity hospitals and the return of more deliveries at home not lead to post-partum complications, which are already growing today? Has the impact on the quality of infant and maternal care been assessed? How have the criteria for deciding on the closure of maternity been determined? Has there been any consultation with the field on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u20	Minister, when Minister De Block came to vote on her plan to reduce maternity stays, I made it clear that the situation of precarization of young mothers could lead to difficult situations and hospital readmissions. To be honest, I would have preferred to be wrong, but unfortunately, obviously, I had rightly pulled the alarm bell since the analysis of the Christian Mutuality, which my colleagues have just recalled, shows that my hypothesis has materialized. I had strongly advocated at the time for a reorganization and, above all, a strengthening of postnatal follow-up in order to have a real intensive accompaniment, even more so for the precarised young mothers, during the return home. Today we arrive with this study of Christian Mutuality. So I obviously have a series of questions. Why has INAMI not proactively identified this? Has there been any serious follow-up in this regard? Measures had been promised at the time, particularly in response to my strong demands, at all levels of power, with more intensive support for mothers and babies when they left the maternity wards? Has this been put in place? If so, why then are we in this situation? I would also like to stress the prenatal aspect since too few pregnant women benefit from the famous seven prenatal consultations recommended for a low-risk pregnancy and ten if it is a first child. Have these various themes been discussed at the Interdepartmental Conference in recent years? Finally, you have decided to follow the same line as Minister De Block on the closure of maternity wards. Should these different elements not lead you to think again about a possible intensive follow-up of proximity, including by organizing it with the federated entities for the prenatal, to ensure a quality follow-up, but also for the postnatal, even more in situations of precariousness which are then more difficult situations for the mother and the baby?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u21	Mr President, reference has been made to the study of Christian Mutualities, and indeed, if we take into account the data of all hospitals, we need to confirm the findings of that study on an increase in the re-uptake of newborns, albeit with a slightly less pronounced trend than those they point out. I can get you the detailed information. When we look at the average duration of stay at the maternity, we find that the number of overnight stays between 2010 and 2018 decreased by 1 day, from 4.3 days to 3.3 days for vaginal delivery and decreased by 1.32 days for a C-section, from 5.9 days to 4.6 days. The KCE has indeed made a recommendation: if the duration of the stay is reduced, a better post-natal follow-up should be ensured at the mother and newborn home. The figures in the study of Christian Mutualities show that this is also happening. In Flanders, in particular, more than 97% of newly birthed mothers receive one or more home visits from a midwife. That's a very high percentage. I'll be back in a minute on the perinatal care path. We are in favour of this because we are not 100% satisfied with the support of women before and after their birth. Even if it is small percentages of women who are not in contact with the care providers, we are concerned about it. If we look at the figures for Flanders, we can see that in most cases the newly given mother receives one or more home visits from a midwife. It is true that between 2010 and 2020 there was an increase in the number of newborn intakes. I do think that we should interpret these figures on the basis of different factors. This merely in a causal relationship with the reduction in the duration of stay on the materiality may be somewhat unsophisticated; I give you the various factors you need to look at. My first point is that an increase in screening in newborns, through the expansion of postnatal follow-up at home, leads to an increase in signalised problems. As a result, newborn babies, where problems might not have been detected in the past, are admitted to hospital. Secondly, another reason for the increase in intakes of newborns is the fact that since 2010, the average age of the mother has increased, with the associated problem of the increase in the number of prematures. Premature children are more likely to re-rape in the first phase of life. I think that is also a factor. Thirdly, there is also an increase in the number of vulnerable families. This is a general problem of poverty of chance, which we clearly see in families with young children. We know that in vulnerable families, the number of re-raptures is statistically higher. This means that it can be assumed that this has an effect. Moreover, it can be seen that the group of vulnerable families has an increased risk of hospitalisation. Finally, there are a number of diseases that do not manifest in the first days after birth, e.g. icterus or jaundice, which occurs only between the second and fifth day after birth and normally disappears after two weeks. This can not always be detected during the stay at the maternity. That is, of course, also a permanent factor. I do not wish to contradict the fact that these factors are linked, but I do think that it should be nuanced when it says that there is a link with the reduction in the length of the rest. As I said, the testing of newborns has improved thanks to home visits by midwives. It's bearing fruit. After analysis, we also find a decrease in the average length of stay of newborns in the case of readmission. This means that the problems are identified earlier and that the severity of the pathology in case of admission is less. There has also been a reduction in readmissions for certain pathologies among women who have participated in the pilot project to reduce their length of stay at home due precisely to better postnatal follow-up. What is the government doing to address all of these issues? We have earmarked EUR 10 million for pregnant women in the 2022 budget, with particular attention to vulnerable groups. The project in mind will allow for early detection of and better monitoring of vulnerable pregnant women during pregnancy and postnatal periods. In this context, the recommendations of the KCE concerning the reforms of the mother's and newborn's path will be taken into account. These recommendations provide for the further development of uniform care in the form of a course of clinical care for mothers and newborns. This includes the following: the establishment of uniform postnatal care, a uniform home transfer policy with a readmission procedure, additional support for parents, the development of a multidisciplinary perinatal e-care plan. For me, that is an important project. There is still work to be done, so it is not for tomorrow, but I think it is one of the key projects, also in the transversal thinking about how we want to use the healthcare budget in the future, and how that budget should support reform and improvement. I shall come back to the discussion on small sizes. It is no coincidence that I have just made a detailed reference to the Knowledge Centre. It is difficult to say in one study of the Centre of Knowledge that they take them all to heart, but in another study of the Centre of Knowledge they say that it is best forgotten completely. The other study is the study on the extent of the materials. I believe that all the studies of the Centre of Knowledge should be taken seriously, otherwise there is a selective approach. It may be useful to indicate the background to this study of the Centre of Knowledge on materials. It is noted that Belgium has a large number of smaller sizes, with low capacity utilisation rates. In all the materials, sufficient care staff must be present so that the required permanence can be insured 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. That's actually the question the KCE was looking for an answer to. What is the right scale to achieve an efficient ratio between childbirth and staff costs? In the KCE study, efficiency, availability within a reasonable driving time for the patient, and timely access to a bed, are pursued and balanced as objectives. Timely access to a bed in a materiality is, of course, also an important element of quality and comfort from the patient's perspective. Contrary to the way in which the study is often viewed, this is not just about efficiency as one often understands in discussions about health care. The study indicates that larger sizes have more buffer capacity so that the chance that a bed is not immediately available upon arrival of a patient who has to give birth is less. The study is not really about whether the care quality for the mother, or the future mother, and the newborn baby would be less good in a smaller materiality. It's not really about that. That concern is not questioned either. That's important. That is important because it nuances the whole discussion and also makes it less pressing. In the treatment of pancreatic cancer, for example, this is different, because there the quality is imperative and therefore concentration of care is needed. This also applies to the treatment of head and neck tumours or ovarian tumours: there the quality in medical practice is also imperative. The debate on materials is therefore a separate debate. The Knowledge Centre concludes that working efficiently requires a minimum activity of 557 childbirths and that efficiency increases to 900 childbirths. Then it's on a plateau. This is also confirmed in foreign studies, from France, Sweden and England. The current recognition criteria are based on a minimum activity of 400 births. According to the Knowledge Centre, it is best raised to 550. With a view to geographical exceptions as a function of maintaining accessibility, the KCE assumes a driving time of 30 minutes. When a reform is started, all the recommendations of the Centre of Knowledge must be taken into account in all possible aspects of the hospital landscape, organisation and financing. That makes sense to me. Perhaps the reform of the materials is not the most pressing issue when we think about better organization of our hospitals. That is why I included this recommendation from the Knowledge Centre in the global reform plan for hospitals. When I proposed this note, I said that there are a number of essential objectives and priorities, which we absolutely must achieve. But that must still be the subject of a wide consultation. In the short term, I would like to give this matter of materiality a chance. I would like to do that on the basis of a number of additional nuances which I myself would like to introduce directly into this dossier with regard to what the Knowledge Centre had submitted. In particular, I will ask the Federal Hospital Services Council, which is composed of hospitals, doctors and sickness funds, to give me an opinion on a concrete proposal in the short term, which, on the one hand, raises the minimum standard of childbirth, but, on the other hand, even more than what the Knowledge Centre had proposed, takes account of the need for proximity. In concrete terms, it does not opt for the criterion that driving time should not exceed 30 minutes, as proposed by the KCE, but retains the existing, more flexible geographical derogation rules. This means, among other things, that a geographical exception is made for a materiality situated in a municipality of more than 20,000 inhabitants which is more than 15 km from the nearest materiality. Given that this is a sensitive issue, and that it is considered that it may be somewhat different from trade-offs in other cases, I look forward to an opinion that I will support. It sometimes happens that I deviate from advice for imperative reasons or because I do not get clear advice and therefore make my own decision. In the short term, however, I would like to ask for an opinion from the Federal Council for Hospital Services, assuming that this opinion will be a guiding point. This debate is somewhat different from the discussions on, for example, the necessary concentration of stroke care or rare cancers. I would therefore ask the Federal Hospital Services Council to give me an opinion on this matter in the near future. I would like to encourage this opinion on the basis of a very concrete proposal, so that it can be clarified quickly, because I think I will follow that advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u22	Mr Minister, first of all, your remarks are reassuring, especially when you refer to the figures in Flanders concerning postnatal follow-up. It would also be interesting to know who had been collected in Wallonia, hoping that the rate of follow-up would be so high. Nevertheless, readmission should be avoided. You recalled that a multitude of reasons can lead to it. It is a trauma for families – especially for mothers, no doubt – a risk to the health of the newborn and a cost and burden for the operation of our hospital networks. The newborn must be kept under constant care before preparing for its release, so that it is not premature. Furthermore, it is necessary to check whether families have all the weapons and all the assets they have acquired at the time of their departure in order to be able to consider them in the best interests of the newborn and to avoid unjustified returns to hospitals and maternity hospitals which would have been unnecessary had they had had all the necessary tools to accompany the newborn. Finally, I would like to stress with great satisfaction your approach to the issue of vulnerable women and the amounts that you will mobilize to support them as best you can.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u23	Minister, I have listened very carefully to your reply. A first observation is that the savings made by Mrs De Block have had a significant impact, especially on the socially weaker. Now you want to set up the trajectory around perinatal care. However, this will have to be done in advance rather than trying to resolve the problems afterwards. Secondly, for the closure of the materials, I am now told that you may wish to revise the criteria. This is important and necessary, because the first study on shortening the length of the rest and now the possible closure of the small sizes indicate this need. I would like to emphasise once again what that physician from Menen has said, namely that the small materials are basic care close to the people and that this is not at all the same as pancreatic cancer, for which very specific treatment should be concentrated in certain places. The materials must be close to the people. When we implement what is cool in the figures of the Centre of Knowledge, we will in the first place hit the weakest. I therefore recommend that you wait effectively for the advice. I hope that will show that the materials do not have to be closed. I don't know why you reviewed the file in relation to the information from the Knowledge Centre. Perhaps it is because of the protest that the local authorities everywhere, including the local authorities, have come up against the possible closure of the materials concerned and their consequences. When a materiality closes, for example, soon afterwards the Department of Pediatrics in the hospital often follows. This closure therefore has a large number of consequences. It is really important to keep the material close to the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u24	Mr Minister, if I asked you about the harmful effects of this decision to reduce the length of stay in maternity care, both for women and for infants, it is because the effects we feared were proven and objected to. I really want to make you understand the increased usefulness of small maternity wards, which are precisely today making sure to compensate for these effects with a benevolent, personalized service, and which has never been more useful, especially at a time when women are making children more and more later and therefore are experiencing ever more at risk pregnancies, with more premature babies as well. You recognized him yourself. I was able to see this when I visited Heusy's maternity, near Verviers, or Saint Joseph's maternity in Mons. Today you are trying to reassure us by explaining that geographical exceptions will be possible, and that an additional opinion from the Federal Council of Hospital Institutions is expected. However, the basis of your decision remains the same, namely this famous study by the Federal Centre of Expertise in Health Care (KCE), which found that some maternity wards had a low occupancy rate. As a result, there is a greater focus on the quantity of care, not quality. I think this is a fundamental mistake because a maternity is a set of personalized services, not a factory. I was absolutely not convinced by your answers. I urge you to refrain from closing these small maternity wards for the reasons I have mentioned, but also because you have not explained yourself about the other criteria that need to be taken into account in order to preserve certain maternity wards. And I call on you to come back to these maternity periods, which must be extended. Here too, you tell us that the reduction in the length of stay in maternity has apparently been accompanied by better postnatal follow-up, because in Flanders more than 97% of mothers receive one or more visits from midwives. Can we really consider that a visit during her maternity stay is enough? Indeed, readmissions are increasing. Finally, can we know the proportion of these mothers in Brussels and Wallonia?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u25	Minister, what matters to me is that these moms and babies – especially if they are disadvantaged because they have less ability to get help – may be in the best possible health conditions as well as for the first few days. These are extremely crucial for the mother and the baby. You highlight the follow-up in Flanders. You do not say in what time frame, and above all, you do not say a word about Brussels and Wallonia. In fact, I think the figures are not the same at all. When the length of stay is short and a woman gives birth on Thursdays, it means she comes out before the end of the weekend. There is not necessarily a social dimension taken into account because we are in a weekend regime. This also means that it sometimes takes several days to have a postnatal follow-up, if there is one. Clearly, we are in a continuum of care that is absolutely uninsured and therefore not sufficient. You refer to the 2014 KCE study, which did bring a number of very interesting points. However, it dates back to 2014 and we are in 2022. You put forward the 10 million for vulnerable pregnant women. Do I have to remind you that the reduction in the length of maternity leave has resulted in savings of €18 million per year for hospitals? This means that there is a clear perception that there have been savings, first and foremost, without a comprehensive health-care dynamic that is commensurate with the needs and quality that can be expected. Thus, I stress that we do not have sufficient post-natal follow-up at home, let alone for these pre-carried young mothers. Let's not forget the prenatal either. There are still too many women who do not have prenatal follow-up to the recommendations. Finally, as far as maternity is concerned, the dimension of proximity is an element that I have put forward in my question and for which I have been pleading for a long time. I now hear an opening on your part concerning this criterion of proximity. However, this must be taken into account in a logic of mission, quality, continuity of care for mother and baby. It is in their interest, of course, but it is also in the interest of public health. So I dare hope we stop being passive. Since the passing of the law and then the study of the KCE in 2014, time has passed without a sufficiently strong decision on the matter. Given that part of this jurisdiction depends on the federated entities, I would like to reiterate that this issue should also be included in an interdepartmental Health Conference and that there should be a strong logic of collaboration between each other for a health service that meets the needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u26	Mr Minister, biocidal products such as disinfectants are used to deter, defuse or destroy unwanted organisms. Thanks to these biocidal products, the spread of pathogens, such as some bacteria, fungi and viruses, can be contained. During the corona crisis, it was recommended that the hands wash frequently at first and then disinfect again. Also when entering shops, museums and churches, the hands are disinfected first. For many, that has become a second nature. Many even have disinfectant in their pockets to use it too conveniently. The frequent use of disinfectants also has a downside, namely that bacteria, viruses and fungi, which should actually be combated, are resistant. This was demonstrated by a study carried out by the FPS Public Health. Minister, will you take steps to reduce the use of disinfectants in daily life, and if so, how? Will you adjust the communication on the use of hand gels against COVID-19 contamination, so that it is less lavishly handled? Will this resistance cause problems in the healthcare sector and will it be necessary to seek other means, or can the tide still be reversed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u27	Mrs Sneppe, in my view, reducing the use of disinfectants is primarily a matter of raising awareness of the proper use of disinfectants. Around this also runs the communication of the Department of Biocides of the FPS Public Health, published since the start of the corona crisis. This communication stresses the importance of complying with the instructions for use for this reason, and we continue to emphasise this. Multiple use is not the only risk factor in the development of resistance. Wrong use of those products is likely to be a greater risk factor. This is generally due to the non-compliance with the conditions of use on the label. For example, it concerns the contact time between the surface and the product, the applied dose and the state of cleanliness of the surface to be treated. You asked me to modify the communication. The study commissioned by the Biocides Department of Public Health has indeed shown that the frequent and incorrect use of disinfectants in the health sector can lead to the development of microbial resistance, in particular resistance in bacteria. Viruses aren't really affected by that. To date, no study has reported any signs of resistance in viruses due to the use of disinfectants. Extraordinary suspect substances are the derivatives of quaternary ammonium salts and chlorhexidine. The purpose of the communication of the FOD will be, in addition to the correct use of those products, to point out those concerns. You ask whether this frequent use can lead to problems in care. We provide for a general communication on the problem for the care sector. We will work with care to identify good practices, which should allow us to reflect on possible improvements. One of the parameters that can encourage the development of resistance is the poor dilution of products and the non-compliance with the instructions for use, namely the dose to be applied. A packaging that reduces dilution errors could reduce the risk of developing resistance. In general, therefore, we want to act to reduce the risk of developing resistance, both at an early stage, by thinking about packaging and clear labelling of products, and at a later stage by raising user awareness, whether they are part of the general public or health sector. The possibility of resistance should also be taken into account at European level, in particular when active biocidal products are approved at that level in the light of the authorisation of biocidal products. A European guide on resistance is therefore being drawn up at the moment. It will take into account the results of our study.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u28	Minister, it is a good thing that there is sufficient communication about this, especially after two years of corona crisis, which has made us all hyperhygienic, and we are dealing with disinfectants at home and outside. Not only am I concerned that bacteria are becoming resistant, but that we are becoming much more sensitive to bacteria due to the hyper-hygiene that we have shown over the past two years. I am also concerned about the impact of the use of these products on the healthcare sector. I am pleased that you will make a general communication on the proper use of the funds in this sector. We must ensure that he is not confronted with situations like we have already seen with the resistant hospital bacteria.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u29	Mr De Caluwé, not present, asked us to postpone his questions today. All of his questions are therefore postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u30	Secretary of State, Endometriosis is a chronic disease caused by women. In this disease, the uterine mucosa is located outside the uterus. It grows there, resulting in severe pain. One woman in ten suffers from it, but the disease often goes unnoticed. Women often grow up thinking it's normal to have pain during the periods of the month. Caregivers are also not sufficiently familiar with the disease, leaving adequate care out. As a result, it takes on average seven years for a diagnosis to be made. Other countries have recently taken steps to remedy this. For example, in the Netherlands there have been medical centres of expertise for several years, including in The Hague and Nijmegen. So people from Belgium sometimes go to The Hague to get cared for there. In France, in February of this year, a national strategy was developed to combat Endometriosis. They paid a lot of money for this strategy, for better scientific research and for greater awareness, both in health care and in education and among the general population. They also focus on better diagnosis through innovative testing and better care. In Belgium, I have seen that several colleagues have tabled proposals for resolutions during the same period, which call for a RIZIV convention, in addition to the recognition and development of centres of expertise, more research by, among other things, the Knowledge Centre and more awareness raising among healthcare professionals, the broad population and in education. Have you seen the French action plan and what do you think of it? Will you work on a plan against endemics yourself? Will you, by analogy with the Dutch medical centres, also set up specialised centres for the treatment of endemic diseases in Belgium? Are you thinking of sensitizing the general public? What will you do to also sensitise the general practitioners around endometriosis, so that patients can be referred to a gynecologist in time?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u31	Mrs Merckx, I had some doubts about how I would deal with this. On 15 February last, there has already been a wide-ranging exchange of views in this committee on Endometriosis, with questions from many speakers, whom I answered in detail at the time. I have already answered the question you are asking me. In order not to disappoint you today, however, I will answer them, with my apologies for repeating the questions that I answered at the time. Endometriosis is, as you say, a condition that affects more or less 10% of the female population. This is a condition that is certainly well known in the medical world. But because of the complexity and heterogeneity of the disease, the knowledge of both general practitioners and gynaecologists is sometimes insufficient to manage the situation at best. As is the case for all complex diseases, it is important to refer the patient in a timely manner to colleagues who are specialists in this condition. The diagnosis of the disease remains difficult and often late, as the disease has very heterogeneous aspects and can have a very significant impact on the quality of life, not only through painful symptoms, but also through the possible influence on fertility and the psychological consequences resulting from it. I absolutely confirm the importance of this condition, and the real suffering it can cause to patients. It is therefore important to raise awareness and encourage women to consult their general practitioner or gynaecologist when they have symptoms of endometriosis, so that diagnosis is made as quickly as possible and the most appropriate treatment is put in place in time. General practitioners and gynaecologists play an important role in the early detection of this disease. In this regard, I can refer to the guidelines of the European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology (ESHRE) which were adapted to the Belgian context and published in 2019 on ebpracticenet, the evidence-based practice platform for Belgian healthcare providers. In order to raise awareness of the disease at the population level, I must call on the federated entities, which are responsible for awareness-raising and health education. In my policy note, I indicated that the government will make new commitments to integrated care and build on the federal chronic disease plan to achieve an ambitious inter-federal plan. The objective is to develop an inter-federal plan during this legislature, in collaboration with the federated entities, which will build on, among other things, the experiences of the current federal plan for chronic diseases and lead to a better integration of care. The core of this plan will retain the following initial objectives: to change the organisation of care, to improve multidisciplinary work or to include the patient as a care partner in the objective of the principles of the five-year olds you may know (improving the health of the population, the quality of care felt by the citizen, the efficient use of means, the improvement of the well-being of the providers, equity and the commitment to social justice and inclusion). I know that it is always a little difficult in communicating with the target groups who suffer from a specific pathology, but what is important is that this future plan, which for me is really extremely important, and whose preparation will still take time, will not address any specific pathology or pathologies. Our policy calls for a cross-cutting approach to better overall care of patients and citizens. As a result, people with endometriosis will be able to benefit from the changes in practices that are and will be gradually acquired by caregivers in the context of the vision on which this plan will be based. The consultation with the federated entities on this inter-federal plan will begin in the first half of 2022, as I said to your colleagues, so now in the framework of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health. You asked about the French strategy. I believe that there are many similarities between the French strategy on Endometriosis and the strategy we envisage in the future interfederal plan for integrated care. With the French and with us, the aim is to provide patients with sufficient information about their chronic illness and about the health actors in this environment, to pay particular attention to good training of health professionals and to multidisciplinarity, to ensure access to care for all and to put the patient at the heart of the approach. As far as the specialised endometrioseclinics are concerned, there are no plans in Belgium to officially recognise specific clinics per pathology. That is a fundamental point. When people say this, it sounds a little frustrating. The strategy for the development of care, particularly for chronic diseases, is not actually directed towards specialised clinics for various diseases, but rather towards a multidisciplinary approach, taking into account the patient as a whole. However, the RIZIV may in certain cases conclude agreements with centres with specific expertise in the treatment of complex disorders. We don't rule that out, we do that sometimes. So I don't want to rule it out for Endometriosis either. On the contrary, I think we should investigate that. However, I do not think it is a priori a starting point to say that for a particular pathology one should have a specialised clinic, no matter how bad this pathology is when one has to deal with it as a woman. I must say, however, that several hospitals with a large service of gynecology already have specific teams specializing in the care of women with endemic disease. In addition to gynecologists, there are usually specialists from other disciplines such as radiology, surgery, urology, surgery, but also sexuologists and psychologists. This multidisciplinarity, with the holistic approach, is really very important. Currently, it is not my intention to put in place a specific plan for endometriosis pathology. Indeed, – I repeat myself – my policy is not aimed at one or more specific pathologies. On the other hand, I plead for a cross-cutting approach allowing for better overall management of patients with chronic disease, with particular attention given to referring, in a timely manner, the most complex cases, with a concentration of specific expertise. The problem is that the development of this inter-federal plan will still take a lot of time. It is therefore at the end of this legislature that this plan can be presented. But this is a matter on which we are already working intensively.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u32	Minister, it seems that this was discussed on 15 February, but I was not there at the time. I find it a little disappointing that you do not want to take any specific action for Endometriosis. However, the problem is being discussed more and more. Women grow up thinking it's normal to have pain at their monthly periods. It's getting really banished. On average, the diagnosis is only made after seven years. So it's important. I am not saying that the multidisciplinary centres should be imitated as in France, but certain actions can and must be taken. It is a pity that you are simply throwing it into a general plan, where the specificity of Endometriosis and the fact that it is a disease that women may not have come out of it. You also say that prevention and information are not your tasks. However, an important task for you is to inform the general practitioners. That could be something concrete in terms of post-mortemisation. You have an important role there as Minister of Health. The women who suffer from this get to the doctor because they sometimes cannot go to school or work because of those painful periods of time. Taking matters into consideration by the general practitioners in order to be able to diagnose more quickly requires concrete actions which you, as Minister of Health, could quickly foresee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u33	Questions Nos 55025807C and 55025810C by Mrs Rohonyi are, if you may, postponed to later in the debate because Mrs Rohonyi is currently in another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u34	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, about 100 physiotherapists have presented unintentionally erroneous costs and are subject to heavy INAMI fines, which consider that two persons with disabilities living under one roof should be treated as a care infrastructure. This is obviously not the case because these disabled people live independently together. The physiotherapists then have ten minutes because it is considered a care infrastructure. This means that they have 10 minutes less to treat patients and they receive 14.75 euros per session instead of 25 euros. This is obviously a nonsense first of all for people with disabilities who are penalized because of the reduction in physiotherapy sessions. In addition, a posteriori, physiotherapists were sanctioned by INAMI. Minister, do you intend to correct the system for people with disabilities as well as the penalties passed on to physiotherapists in a completely illogical manner? I repeat that it is a matter of common sense to take into account the situation of people with disabilities living under one roof and to treat them like any other disabled person living at home.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u35	Do you mind if I answer in Dutch? I prepared my answer in Dutch. I would like to start by saying that, contrary to what is mentioned in the press, this is not about fines. It's not about a hundred physiotherapists. It is a question of voluntary reimbursement of the amount unduly charged to 25 physiotherapists, on the basis of a report of findings. I say this because some of my fellow Members who are not here today have made a reference to this point. The compulsory health insurance also includes reimbursement for physiotherapy and for nursing in common residences or residences of persons with disabilities. Repaid care remains therefore possible. For this purpose, the nomenclature includes specific benefits in kind, taking into account, for example, the characteristic that the caregiver with a single transfer can provide a group of patients at the same address, which saves, of course, time to move and travel costs. The nomenclature is continuously evaluated in different bodies within the RIZIV, in which representatives of the health care providers and health insurance funds are present. It takes into account the existing legal, organisational, budgetary and technical possibilities, including the possibilities for broadening the framework. If there is a shortage of caregivers who want to care for such patients, it is appropriate to consider how to increase the supply. An adjustment of the nomenclature for the benefit of these forms of housing would logically lead to greater involvement of health care providers and budgets in that setting. I must, of course, engage in dialogue with the Länder on this issue, given their powers to support and support people with disabilities. In other words, I believe there are arguments for the current system. However, I also believe that those who say that this is problematic for attractiveness and supply may not be wrong. I think we should follow this up, but I do not have an immediate plan to correct this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u36	Minister, you are correcting the fines by saying that there are no fines. I don't know exactly what's going on, but I take note of your comments. But I still have trouble following you in your logic. Of course, there are institutions of people with disabilities that are care facilities. You then say that they fall within the competence of the federated entities which have the competence of disability. All right. But my question is about people with disabilities living under one roof. It is logic and common sense: it can still be considered that two disabled people living together under the same roof are not, by definition, an infrastructure or an institution of care. They must therefore be able to benefit from care, including physiotherapy, like others. I don't understand very well. On the other hand, as a public authority, I think we should support the autonomy of people with disabilities who live together and who are not in an institution of care, so that they can benefit from care like others in terms of duration, care and reimbursement. Caregivers should also be able to treat them as any other disabled person who lives alone or in a family. I'm still going to insist. This is a question of equity and inclusion of persons with disabilities regardless of their reality. We often talk about the price of love and the price of labor; now we find ourselves with the price of kine. They are not entitled to the same care if they decide to live together. I hope that the lines will move in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u37	Mrs Fonck, your question is a little more focalized than the questions put by colleagues who are not here today. You say that it is strange to regard that particular situation as an institution and I would like to look at that again with the RIZIV. That is an interpretation. What you're saying is, as it were, a bemol in the discussion. You say that two people who have a disability together are not an institution. I'm not promising you anything, but I'd like to take another look at that interpretation. So I will do that, and you will have to come back to that on occasion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u38	Minister, what I'm interested in is not to come back to the point. Above all, things are moving and these people with disabilities can be fully taken into account. I'm called in Social Affairs. Can I put this on hold and come back right after?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u39	No problem. I'm looking at the entrances and exits. I'll try to find myself there.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u40	Mr. Secretary, sales of antidepressants and anti-anxiety medication have increased during the pandemic. Especially among young people, demand grew in 2021, while overall sales that year remained relatively stable according to Professor Lode Godderis of the Mental Assessment Group, a part of the GEMS. The percentages are spectacular. A quarter more medicines for mental problems were sold to young people and 16 to 25-year-olds. The figures should be taken into account, since absolute figures are small groups, especially in children. Anyway, the increase cannot be denied. Sciensano's health survey, which was carried out in December, also showed that young people had difficulties with isolation, even more than adults. Most of them are gonna scribble straight again, now that the situation is getting back to normal. Improving the numbers. Who was prescribed medication, a few sunny days isn't enough. The deeper one is in the well, the more pushes are needed to get out, says Professor Godderis. Early treatment in the first 25 years of life may prevent the problem from becoming chronic. The closing argument of the Mental Assessment Group is clear. We need to address mental health problems with the same focus as corona. We need to scale up psychiatric care, as we did with the intensive care departments. We need to track down patients, like they were corona patients. It is not just about shortening the waiting lists for psychiatric care, says Godderis, it is also important to involve young people, because that is a crucial part of prevention. The first-line zones were previously commissioned to identify specific target groups with a view to psychological support. In the meantime, in a previous session you replied negative - view of the progress. Have you also started a dialogue with the Länder on the worrying use of antidepressants and medications among young people? What action can they take preventively?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u41	Recent figures show that RIZIV's expenditure on antidepressants for children and young people is rising. That was also alarmed about the corona crisis and the lockdowns. The increase is mainly in children and adolescents aged 11 years and over. The causes of the increase in the use of antidepressants in young people are still unclear. The results of a survey on this matter by the FPS Public Health are expected this spring. How's the investigation coming? When can we expect the results? Could you give us some more information on that? BelPEP has already taken several initiatives to promote rational use of antidepressants, such as the publication of a manual through an online tool on depression and the proper use of antidepressants. The guide is currently aimed at sleeping and tranquilizers, but would be extended. The project was to be completed by April 2022, so now approximately. How's the project coming along? The RIZIV launches several transversal projects under the 2022 budget line. Which projects exactly are we talking about? Which projects have already been implemented? Which projects are still being developed? How will the 5 million euros be spent on resources? What project proposals came in before 2023?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u42	Mr President, this is a very important issue which is very close to my heart. The various questions lead to an interesting combination of policy issues. However, I must ask for a little patience before that policy is fully completed. Mrs Vanpeborgh, you have situated it in a context of increasing mental problems, growing indications that children, young people and young adults have mental problems and the relationship with the use of psychopharmaceuticals. The first question is whether we can organise a good first-line care for children and young people, where we can play fast on the ball and quickly provide a response when they are not feeling well. This is entirely the subject of first-line psychological assistance. As you say, I asked the mental health networks yesterday to set very clear priorities on how they want to use local budgets available for their network. The question has been put to both adult networks and networks for children and young people. My impression is that the networks have worked very carefully on this and have therefore thought very carefully about what the vulnerable groups are on their territory, how they can identify them and then what the sites in which they can accommodate them are with presence and with an offer that is far more than just the fact that an individual clinical psychologist or orthopedagogic eye is waiting for a patient to sign up. These are places in youth advisory centres, OCMWs, major general practitioners and the like. I have noted that the networks are working very carefully on this. However, I do not yet have a complete overview and the practical roll-out is too slow. I have therefore asked the networks and, in particular, the networks for children and young people to speed up the process of practicalising what they are doing with the budget they have at their disposal for first-line psychological support for children and young people. I have also proposed that we should receive more frequent reports on the progress they are making in the roll-out of the first-line psychological function, the identification of vulnerable groups, the identification of priorities, the identification of sites, etc. I'll give you that as a general context. You will undoubtedly come back to that on 18 May, at the hearing on mental health care. I'm sure it'll come back. It is, however, absolutely true that the development of mental health care should, in the first place, also be a response to the rising and alarming rise in the use of psychopharmaceuticals, including among young people. I'd like to zoom in on that a little more specific. At the end of 2020, we concluded a cooperation agreement between the FPS Public Health and Sciensano on data collection in the framework of the measurement of psychopharmaceuticals in children and young people, through the general practitioners' level practices. It was also said in the questions, on the basis of Farmanet data, we know that the use of psychopharmaceutical in children and young people is increasing every year. The data do indeed suggest that a significant part of this medication is started by the general practitioner. In fact, we do not know enough because of the lack of information on the indication, duration of treatment, referral and cooperation with the second and third lines. That is why we started this research project. Through additional data via Sciensano and databases such as Intego we hope to get a better picture of the use of psychopharmaceuticals in children and young people prescribed by the GP. The GP survey was organised between March 2021 and March 2022. So this one's just closed. A first interim report based on 57 cases will be presented to the experts of BelPEP, the Belgian Psychotropics Experts Platform, for discussion and first interpretation before the summer. I must say, however, that 57 cases are not a high number. This means that we need to continue the data collection in order to have greater reliability of the data. With regard to the extension of the online toolbook Sleeping and Relaxants, with a chapter on the correct use of antidepressants, I can tell you that this project is indeed ongoing. The toolbook will be launched together with the awareness campaign on psychopharmaceuticals. I'll put that campaign before the end of 2022. That is a campaign that I am really looking forward to in a sense, although it would of course be better if we did not have to run it. What is our aspiration when we roll out first-line psychological assistance, what do we want to say to the general practitioners, what do we think about pharmaceuticals and pharmaceutical policy? This is at the crossroads between many different concerns and policy objectives and is therefore an important campaign for me. Mrs Sneppe, you referred to a €5 million project on investing in psychiatric care with special attention to young people with psychiatric problems. This is part of a series of transversal projects. In reply to a previous question from Mrs Merckx, I referred to EUR 10 million for perinatal care. That EUR 10 million is part of the same series. In this way, we will also allocate EUR 5 million to cross-cutting care for young people who need psychiatric care. The aim is to develop a number of concrete initiatives for better guidance, which, of course, have links with the use of antidepressants. Let me give you some concrete proposals. An initial proposal means that we improve access to somatic care for people admitted to a psychiatric hospital or a psychiatric ward of a general hospital by integrating the remuneration of the general practitioner into the teams of the psychiatric hospital or the psychiatric ward of a general hospital, or by removing some of the administrative obstacles that exist today. A second proposal means that we encourage the development of a treatment and aftercare plan for patients with psychiatric illness. The treatment and aftercare plan should include both psychiatric and somatic care, in accordance with international guidelines and should be electronically available to all healthcare providers concerned. A third proposal is to improve the accessibility of adequate and qualitative care for young people with severe eating disorders, in hospitals in particular, through outpatient, multidisciplinary teams for eating disorders. That's part of it, too. It has not yet come to an end, but it is elements that will be included in what we want to do with the EUR 5 million. I hope that will create a context in which we can tackle the wrong or exaggerated use of psychopharmaceutical by young people. By carrying out a awareness campaign on this issue, we are actually tackling the problem from two sides.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u43	Minister, I want to make it clear that I was wrong. My question is on the agenda later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u44	I listened carefully to your reply and found it reassuring, Minister. I hear you take this issue to heart. We will certainly continue to follow up on this, along with you. Especially on 18 May, the day of mental health care, we will probably discuss it again. Like you, I believe that first-line psychological aid is crucial to reducing the use of psychopharmaceuticals. I also hope that the Ministers in the Länder will be fully aware of this and will put their shoulders on it, because, of course, this is about preventive work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u45	Your answer was enlightening, Minister, but I am not as positive as Mrs Vanpeborgh. I know that this EUR 5 million is only a fraction of what is being invested in mental health, but even the full amount is just a piece of cake, knowing that there is a need to make a big catch-up effort to invest properly in mental health care and to help those who need it well. The fact that children and young people are placed on a waiting list, or have to take antidepressants for too long, should not be allowed. In many cases, they take the medication because they don't get the help they need. Antidepressants are often prescribed by general practitioners. Together with the relevant ministers in the Länder, you will need to make more efforts to raise awareness and encourage these general practitioners to refer children and young people more quickly. However, you will have to invest in this and make those waiting lists disappear. In this respect, I would like to refer to a master's test by Dr Rani De Beir, who states that general practitioners have been trained for this but often too easy and too long prescribe antidepressants and refer young people and children too late to psychologists or psychiatrists. There is still a lot of work to be done and I hope you will mean it when you say that the situation is close to your heart and that you will step up your efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u46	As we had committed ourselves to it, I suggest you go back to Mrs Rohonyi's questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u47	Dear colleague, in our government agreement, it is stated, with regard to the current parliamentary treatment of the proposed abortion law in the House of Representatives, that the matter needs to be deepened in the House's Justice Committee. Once a disciplinary and independent scientific commission appointed by government parties has conducted a study and an evaluation of the practice of legislation, we will continue to work constructively to find consensus among government parties and, in the meantime, not to vote. I know that Parliament's colleagues have started working on this and have set up a committee to provide answers to the questions that Parliament is asking itself. As regards the concrete composition of the working group, its timetable and deadlines, I refer you to my colleagues in the Committee on Justice. For the time being, the Public Health Policy Unit is not involved in this work, but my colleagues in Parliament are keeping us informed. The National Evaluation Commission does not have to rule on the law in force. However, it must produce reports that detail and evaluate the application and evolution of the law. The Commission shall present the situation according to the information from the registration documents. This is therefore a very different objective than that given to the committee set up in Parliament. The National Evaluation Commission has no information on clandestine abortions since it receives only the registration documents concerning the interruptions of pregnancy legally carried out in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u48	Minister, you seem astonished by my question, which goes without saying. You are the Minister of Health and, therefore, when we see that countries around us, such as France and the Netherlands, are softening their conditions for the legal use of abortion, but at the same time, in Belgium, the case is blocked for purely political reasons, it must alert you. The fact that the Netherlands has removed the deadline for reflection, that France has extended the deadline for abortion will lead to even more Belgian women going to abortion in these countries in complete safety. Unfortunately, they cannot be covered by social security. This is all the more unacceptable because, as the WHO recalled just a month ago, restrictions on abortion put women at risk of stigmatization, as well as risky interventions and serious medical complications. WHO therefore called on all States, including Belgium, to remove all unnecessary medical restrictions by clearly citing criminalization, mandatory waiting periods or the prohibition of abortion beyond a certain stage of pregnancy. These are three conditions that your government refuses to relax, as provided for in the government agreement. It is well known that reaching consensus on this issue with the CD&V, which is historically opposed to any relaxation on this issue, is a pious wish, unfortunately. I therefore dared to hope that, in your capacity as Minister of Health, you would have been prepared to be more open-minded so as not to leave behind this important appeal made by the WHO. For the rest, when you tell me that you can't give me more information about the composition of this assessment committee, about its work schedule and that, therefore, I have to question the Minister of Justice, know that I have already done so. I called on the Prime Minister, the Secretary of State, Mrs Schlitz, the Minister of Justice. And I dared to hope that, for that reason, the Minister of Health would give me more information, given the public health issue of abortion. This is still to be seen today, unfortunately, with this possible decision that could be handed down by the American Supreme Court in the month. I am particularly disappointed with your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u49	Mrs Rohonyi, the evaluation of the Breast Reconstruction Convention is under way with the Intermutualist Agency. The results will then be presented to the National College of Medical Directors and the National Medical Mutualist Commission. This was to be done in the first half of 2022, as I was told. The Federal Centre of Expertise for Health Care (KCE) study on the quality of breast clinics is ongoing. The results of this study are expected by the end of 2022. The conclusions or recommendations of the study are not yet available. When the study is published, the recommendations will be reviewed and possible policy initiatives will follow on this basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u50	Minister, thank you for this concise but encouraging answer. Things are moving in this case in the interests of women, with this assessment of the convention on breast reconstruction or with the study of the KCE that is expected. It is a source of hope for all these women who encounter difficulties in their reconstruction after surgery for breast cancer. This disease does not have to become a source of poverty, let alone insecurity. With regard to this assessment of the breast reconstruction convention, it seems to me very important to include tattooing in the convention. This is a novelty that allows patients to close this painful chapter of cancer, with its treatments and mastectomy when it takes place. Indeed, this tattoo, however small, allows these women to re-appropriate their bodies and thus regain a certain femininity as well as a better mental health.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u51	"The observation, sometimes called "collocation", is a protective measure for people suffering from mental illness in crisis situations. Such persons may therefore be forcibly hospitalized by a magistrate if they constitute a danger to themselves or to others. In the ordinary procedure, observation is ordered by a justice of the peace, but in case of emergency, by the king's prosecutor. It appears that this emergency procedure has become the main route of observation. The king's prosecutor may be seized by a family member, a relative and a police department called in case of a severe crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u52	Among these emergency observation statements, can you indicate the ones that come from a police intervention?" If you want, you can just give me the numbers. This will be perfect since it is an encrypted question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u53	Mr President, in addition to the observation data provided by the SPF Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment in response to the parliamentary question, I can inform you that in 2019 and 2020, respectively, 7,083 and 7,584 observations took place in Belgian hospitals. These data are not yet available for the year 2021. In fact, justice uses collocation to force admission to hospital, since the measure is often not confirmed after ten days. I therefore hope that the new compliance legislation that my colleague Justice Minister Vincent Van Quickenborne is preparing will allow for a longer observation phase before deciding on a collocation measure. For my part, I will soon launch a third call for projects to create services that will accommodate the person in crisis in more humane conditions. For the data concerning the distribution of the number of observations according to whether they have been ordered in the ordinary procedure or in the emergency procedure, my colleague the Minister of Justice is competent and must answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u54	Minister, thank you. I will ask your colleague about his intentions with regard to the amendments to the Compliance Act. I will also ask him for the latest statistical data, of which I would like to have known.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u55	Mr Minister, the question arises from a case in which a nurse suffered a thrombosis in the leg before the corona crisis, before which an operation, which was delayed by the corona crisis, ended up in a pain clinic because of the resulting nerve damage, where she was treated with pain medication and patches to combat pain, and cannot count on the reimbursement of the very expensive patches, because the treatment was not started within two years of the event. The regulatory deadline has indeed been exceeded, but that was beyond her control, namely by delaying care during the corona crisis. I can imagine that this is not only very annoying for that nurse, but for many people in similar situations, all the more so when one does not know where one can go for a solution. Is it true that the deadline for certain repayment conditions has continued, despite the COOVID crisis? Can you give an overview of the nomenclature numbers and the conditions for reimbursement that have been affected by the corona crisis? Can a person still claim a refund in such a situation and what steps should be taken to do so? Is there an overview of such situations where the repayment period has been compromised by COOVID? Can you indicate the numbers per nomenclature number and the amount of reimbursement missed by patients? Certain repayment conditions were suspended during the corona crisis. Is it your plan to do that for all temporal conditions? How long can repayment conditions be suspended? Is that during the period of a federal crisis or what parameters are being observed? I would like to add that this was actually a written question from November last year. In the absence of an answer, it has been converted into an oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u56	I will also send you my answer directly by e-mail, if you wish. Since it is such a complex matter, a written reply would have been better. I'll read it anyway, and you can read it at the same time. To answer your first question, I refer to Royal Decree No. 21 and Royal Decree No 21 and Royal Decree No 21 and Royal Decree No 21 and Royal Decree No 21 and Royal Decree No 21 and Royal Decree No 21 and Royal Decree No 21 and Royal Decree No 21 and Royal Decree No 21 and Royal Decree No 21 and Royal Decree No 21 and Royal Decree No 21 and Royal Decree No 21 providing for temporary adjustments to the conditions of reimbursement and administrative rules for compulsory medical care insurance as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic provides for the suspension or extension of temporal conditions of reimbursement. Those measures shall apply until a date to be determined by the King and until 31 December 2025 at the latest. The benefits in kind and the regulatory provisions whose temporal conditions of reimbursement are extended or suspended shall also be mentioned in that Decision. In my answer you will also find the links where you can read them. Royal Decree No. However, 21 did not generally suspend or extend all temporal conditions of reimbursement. In the case of pharmaceutical benefits in kind, products or specialities, the extension by three months of the validity of authorisations delivered to a patient by the medical adviser of an insurance institution shall be provided. Since Decision No. 21 does not specifically provide for an extension or suspension of the temporal conditions of reimbursement of pharmaceutical benefits in kind, products or specialities, may be relied upon in Article 1 of Royal Decree No 21. 20 laying down temporary measures to combat the COOVID-19 pandemic and to ensure continuity of care in compulsory medical care insurance. I read Article 1: "Keep a conflicting reference in this Decision or any other legal or regulatory provision adopted after 13 March 2020, the time limits provided for by or under the law on compulsory medical care insurance and benefits, coordinated on 14 July 1994, with the exception of the time limits provided for in Section XVI and Section XXII of Chapter V of Title III, Titles IV, V, V, Vbis, Chapter III of Title VI and Chapters II, III and IV of Title VII of the Act, suspended from 13 March 2020 until a date to be fixed by the King in a generic manner or for some of those periods." End of quote. Article 1 of Decision No. 20 was lifted by the King on 8 January 2021, except for the time limits provided for in Article 174 of the Law on compulsory medical care and benefits, coordinated on 14 July 1994 and the time limits for the procedures involving the Commission on medicinal products or the Commission on Implants and Invasive Medical Devices. In other words, the time limits which have not been the subject of a specific suspension or extension under Royal Decree No. 21, suspended from 13 March 2020 until 8 January 2021. Today, the usual deadlines are in place again. You ask whether someone in such a situation can still claim reimbursement. As I have just indicated, we have in principle worked out measures for the various reimbursements of medical benefits, either by means of a specific scheme with Royal Decree No. 21 or through the general clockstop of Royal Decree No. 20. In the specific case you are referring to, it may be noted that it is evident that I am being cautious about a medical error. This means that the treatment of the person concerned should be covered by the professional liability insurance of the healthcare provider who would be in error, in accordance with the relevant legal rules. The RIZIV does not have an overview per nomenclature number of defaulted refunds. However, several bodies monitor the extent of the delay in care and in which sectors. You will find a representation of this in the report "Covid estimate of non-executed care in hospitals during the first, second and third wave." In my written reply you will also find the link. In-house monitoring will continue continuously, even after the third wave. A similar monitoring will also be carried out for outpatient care. You asked, finally, what my plan is with the temporal conditions that were suspended. I repeat what I said at the beginning. Those measures shall continue to apply until a date to be determined by the King, not later than 31 December 2025.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u57	Minister, you say that there is no overview of the refunds that have gone wrong. However, I believe that such an overview is important and I might ask an additional question in order to find out the figures. I can't quite tell from your answer whether the woman in question will be helped. You are right that a written reply would have been better here. An earlier answer would have been better. Let us hope that the situation has now settled itself in this particular case. You also indicate that there may be an intervention of professional liability insurance. I will read the answer that your associate has given me in the meantime at ease.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u58	Mrs Fonck, to date, no enforcement orders have been issued regarding the mention of the dangerousness of nitrous oxide on each container of metal cartridges. It is important to note that at present its only use authorized by the Act of 24 January 1977 concerns its use as a food additive. Since the rules on the placing of labels and additives on the market are fully harmonised at European level, a Member State is not authorised to impose complementary national measures. If a royal decree were to be adopted in Belgium, it would have to go through the official TRIS notification procedure. The European Commission, under the leadership of several Member States, initiated discussions on this issue in the Additives Working Group, in which it took the initiative to explore harmonised measures. For your good information, since June 2021, France has adopted additional provisions concerning nitrous oxide in its Public Health Code. To this end, two TRIS procedures for the packaging of products containing nitrous oxide were introduced in February 2022. The Commission will reply within three months. My administration will closely monitor the outcome of these discussions at European level. This is clearly a complex issue that has become increasingly common in recent years. I am well aware of the dangers of hilarious gas such as coordination disorders, confusion, hallucinations. It is therefore quite clear that effective measures must be taken with regard to the abuse of nitrous oxide as a narcotic. The issue is currently under discussion at the level of my administration, the FPS Public Health and the AFMPS, as well as in the Control and Safety Unit working group chaired by my Justice colleague. The analysis will be carried out between these parties. On the basis of an initial analysis of the Health FPS, the Act of 24 January 1977 does not seem to be the best legal framework for regulating the misuse of this product.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u59	Minister, I hear that you did not respect and enforce the Act of February 11, 2021. However, more than 12 months have passed since then. Of course, the danger indicated on the cartridges is not an absolute answer. But in order to give ourselves the maximum chance of countering the consumption of this type of product as amazement, we must try to actuate all the levers we have at our disposal, including the lever of direct information about the product about its dangerousness. Some people use it voluntarily as an astounding thing. Others say that the consumption of this gas is not so serious, that it is only a hilarious product. Therefore, sniffering a little is not dangerous. Information on the product is not negligible in terms of public health. I hope that the decisions at European level will allow Belgium to finally move forward. The law was passed. It must be respected, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u60	Ms Fonck, following a review of the group in 2019 that aimed at too expensive antiretroviral drugs, the Descovy refund was abolished. Scientifically and academically, it has never been mentioned that this could lead to a significant therapeutic problem in some patients. Since the Special Solidarity Fund (SSF) is a specific and additional safety net of the regular coverage of compulsory health care insurance, it provides patients with rare and very serious conditions with financial assistance for certain medical benefits which are not reimbursed and particularly expensive. Under no circumstances may the Fund be used as a parallel circuit to systematically reimburse medical benefits excluded from structural reimbursement or to circumvent revisions to well-founded reimbursements. The specific regulations concerning the Special Solidarity Fund (Article 25 of the Law on Compulsory Health Care and Sickness and Disability Insurance) provide strict criteria according to which each application for intervention with the FSS for an individual patient is evaluated by the College of Medical Directors. Article 25a states, inter alia, that the Fund may intervene only for rare indications and if there is no acceptable medical and social alternative to diagnosis or therapy within the framework of compulsory health care insurance. This makes financial intervention by the FSS in this case, in principle, impossible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u61	Minister, I take note of your responses on the regulation of the FSS. I cannot help but have been questioned in particular on this issue, because we are faced with 2009 decisions (on the INAMI website, it is clearly stated that the decision comes from the minister) concerning a drug that is not expensive. I am rather puzzled by the decision not to allow the reimbursement of this anti-HIV treatment. Moreover, the countries close to the geographical area are continuing to pay back this treatment. This decision does not appear to be a scientifically or economically justified decision. This is paradoxical for the patients concerned especially since other medicines sometimes have important side effects, but also in relation to public health logic and economic logic on the control of drug costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, I will move on to four questions on the quota of doctors, after which, in order to comply with the order of business, we will move on to an inquiry by Mrs Pas, to which various questions are attached, because we are obliged to respect the two weeks from the time when the inquiry is filed and that next week, Friday, there will be no question-sessions. I just wanted to tell you and keep our timing set at 5:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u63	Mr President, in the Conference of Presidents, the agenda for next week's committees passed, with a committee on Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u64	That's the information we've received. In that case, we'll follow the order. Let's check to be sure. That's the information we received from the services. But so well, there's a meeting on Friday...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u65	Mr President, in any case, the draft was presented as it stood with the agenda of the various committees. I'm talking about next Friday, not this one. This is in any case what has been included in the draft which was forwarded to the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u66	Since I am not in the Conference of Presidents, I did not have that information. We're checking it out. In the meantime, if you agree, we shall continue with Mrs Van Peel's next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u67	Minister, this question has been pending for a long time, so many of the questions I asked in it have already been answered by your incredibly surprising communication about the historic agreement you have concluded. Allow me to see that historic agreement as a very communicative move of yours. The bottom line is that you're ahead of the white flag. That is what you have been told a few times in this dossier, and the white flag has always been run into the wall, but you are doing it again. De facto, therefore, your agreement comes with a promise that has been made at least a dozen times in the last 25 years and has already been translated into texts that are certain that the Council of State will not survive. And so we find ourselves in the effective situation that there is still no filter, and that there will probably not be any filter, on the timing that is now being proposed, namely just before the elections. Something which the French-speaking Community has been fighting for 25 years now will now be settled just before the elections. The white flag hangs out, but you have invented a consideration for that. That consideration isn't minimal. I'll summarize them briefly for you. You know that yourself, of course, but you like to put it a little differently. That consideration is a general pardon for the French translations of the past. Just the sponge about it, we forget that, regrettably for all those families who haven't seen their children go to college and regret the taxpayer who has to pay for the overconsumption of that number of doctors every day. It's all too bad, but we're gonna let that go. What are we gonna let go of? The key that determines the quotas through the population numbers, the 60/40, for 25 years has been the only thing in this file that the Flemish parties held. We let that go and we integrate that the French speakers need more doctors, because they work less hours. Of course, that has to do with the fact that there are too many of them, but well, we will institutionalize that, so we'll raise that even more. The inequality you spoke out against at the time as Flemish Minister of Education, I will look for the quotes against the plenary, and where you said very loudly that it should not increase any further, let you just continue to grow and institutionalize them. Fantastic job. That is why you are coming up next week with your various provisions, to which you now shamefully have to add an amendment to remove from the draft your response mechanism, to which you have also said a great deal of dirty work. That is also painful for CD&V, because I remember the presentation of the coalition chord CD&V chairman Joachim Coens boasted on social media with two things they had won. One was abortion and the other was the response mechanism in the medical quota file. But you're gonna drop that, because a promise has been made in a file that's been full of promises for 25 years. That's a historic deal. You're right about that. It's really historic. I've never seen the pants hang so low on my knees on a chord, so it is indeed historic. But actually, I only have one question. You're gonna meet me regularly in all the steps you're gonna take. I read the articles in the Flemish and French press. There I saw differences either in the interpretation of your communication or in your communication itself. You say there's an agreement with all partners. Can you confirm, just yes or no, whether there is indeed an agreement with the Flemish Government?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u68	Minister, we have heard your agreement. It has been briefly summarised by the previous speaker. It is clear that all the French translations of the past are simply forgiven. The distribution of quotas on the basis of population is also completely abandoned. It will not surprise you that both the doctor's syndicate and the Flemish general practitioners, the Flemish general practitioners in training, the Flemish specialists, the Flemish specialists in training and the students in medicine have all expressed their disgust and their criticism of the conditions. Mr Minister, there will be a full tabula rasa, without guarantee that the agreement will be followed this time. You are so naive to trust that there will be an agreement this time that will suddenly be followed, although many agreements have already been concluded in the past which have never been followed for 25 years. I've sent you clear questions. Do you think that it is fair and fair to the thousands of Flemish students who have not been able to undertake medical studies in the past, who have always applied the rules, while the French Community, which has been wiping its feet for decades, allowed medical studies to begin, against all agreements, in far more people than allowed, that all this is regulated by this agreement? What guarantees do you have that this time the French Community will stick to an agreement, something they have never done in the past few decades? Why isn't there going to be a federal response mechanism? It's in the coalition agreement. When I put questions to Minister Verlinden in particular about the application of language law, the answer is always that it is not in the coalition agreement. This is in it now, but it's not being carried out. The Flemish Government does not yet participate in this agreement. What impact does this have on this agreement in general? Are you prepared to reconsider?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u69	Minister, I heard your communication last week. The Flemish colleagues have been coming up with the same story for 25 years. A man learns from experience. I don't see the problem. Do you then apply for fewer and fewer doctors in Belgium after two years of corona crisis? I don't understand. The modal Fleming does not easily find a GP and cannot easily contact a specialist. Everyone complains that there are too few doctors. The doctors-specialists in training stopped last year and have now been given better working conditions. Are we aware that these young doctors may be working less by allowing even fewer doctors than they already are? That's an absurd discussion. This plate is turned grey and needs to be turned off. You must look at your discourse in relation to the new reality today, with a shortage of doctors, both in the north and in the south of the country. Some doctors, of course, want a strict selection and elitist education. Apparently, that's your vision. In any case, minister, I do not find myself in your agreement for the simple reason that I think that today there is a shortage in hospitals, there is a shortage of general practitioners, there is a shortage of doctors everywhere. We also need another vision of the doctor's profession, a much more preventive vision. That's what we learned from the covid crisis. Today it is decided, thanks to the struggle and fortunately, that all students in the curriculum will be able to have an INAMI number. It was the least I could do! But at the same time, we'll select harder. We're gonna have fewer doctors. Today, the baby boom generation, whether it's doctors or not, is getting older and older. These people need care. So, we need doctors. I don't understand how to do it in this country. I can only say that a more severe entrance examination is still a more unequal education and that it will be more difficult for young people from smaller backgrounds to have access to these medical studies when, in medicine, we need people who also come from more popular backgrounds.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u70	I remind each colleague of the rules of speaking time. I left you here the latitude and you exceeded your time. I understand that this debate is exciting, but I hope that we will be able to come back to the regulatory time for questions and that you will be very vigilant, ladies, in your replies so that the agenda can be kept.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u71	"Mr Minister, after many months of negotiations, the Federal and the Wallonia-Brussels Federation have finally reached an agreement on Inami quotas.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u72	• Will you continue to work to improve the working conditions of medical specialists in training? In the positive, in what way?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u73	Colleagues, I am not going to repeat in detail what I have already said in this committee about the importance of proper planning of the provision of care providers, in particular the provision of doctors and dentists. I think this is extremely important. Why do we need that good planning? Because of the quality of health care. One must have sufficient doctors and dentists to meet the need. One must not have too many, but one must have enough. They must also be properly distributed among the different specialities. A sufficient number of general practitioners, a sufficient number of children's psychiatrists, enough geriatrics, enough endocrinologists and plenty of other specialists are required. That requires planning. This has to do with the quality of health care and the response to needs. Such planning should also ensure that the profession itself retains or improves its quality, by allowing doctors and dentists to find a good balance between their personal life and their professional commitment. The views on this are also different today than they were 30 years ago. People don't want to work 80 hours a week. The model of the often male general practitioner who works 80 hours a week, while the woman supports and does the household, is fortunately hopelessly overtaken. We're living in a whole different world now. It is also about the quality of the profession. In short, they do not have too many doctors and dentists, and they are well distributed among the different specialities that are needed. This requires planning. Planning requires control. I have also said in the past that for me the best, most efficient and, above all, most just control of the supply is done at the influx into the study. If one does efficient inflow control, by means of a filter at the competition with the numerus fixus, then one can guarantee, if that is well adapted to the later need, that all young people who start the study will be able to take up the profession later. I believe that this is essential from the point of view of legal certainty and justice. I think this is important for all students in the country, whether they are Flemish or French-speaking students. We have had a saga for 25 years in which there was constant controversy and discord about the figures, the objectivity of the figures and the methodology, as well as about the control and the way in which this was to be done, and felt cheated on all sides. I am sure you can quote me on that, Mrs van Peel. I welcome it when you do. I was also Minister of Education once. If one has control in a community by means of a strong limitation in the influx and another community does not use that limitation, then one feels, of course, a bit deceived in that one Flemish Community. That's obvious. On the other hand, in the French-speaking Community there has been a great deal of doubt about the underlying methodology and the figures. We now have an agreement, I think, between the federal government and the government of the Federation Wallonie-Bruxelles. This is a complete agreement on the approach which will lead to a numerus fixus, including in the French-speaking Community, on the basis of a competition from the summer of 2023. During the transitional period there will be a very tight response, organized in a decree of the French-speaking Community itself, with regard to what is happening, possibly with the influx into the studies this year and thus the respect for the quota of 2028, within six years. I shall come back to that in detail if you wish. I think this is particularly important. We have also consulted extensively with the Flemish Government. They said that they were not convinced that the French-speaking Community would abide by it and that they would look at it. They were rather skeptical. There were also other points of discussion. However, it is not for me to express the position of the Flemish Government. I said, and that was absolutely correct, that the Flemish Government was waiting. That is also the case, and the Flemish Government must, of course, explain to itself how it sees it, that is not up to me. It does indeed start from scepticism as to whether this agreement will be achieved. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much hope that this agreement will be achieved. There are two reasons for this. Firstly, we have a whole series of mutual agreements that you will find in detail in the agreement. They are a bit, as they say in English, tit for tat, you do this, we do that. So we have a whole cascade of mutual agreements, saying at the federal level that we are going to take certain steps but that they must also take steps. However, if they do not take these steps or do not lead to the desired result, we will withdraw our steps. Then we go back to a federal response mechanism that I have always said is suboptimal. There is a complete agreement on this in the federal government. A waterproof system of mutual agreements has been put on paper. More importantly, however, in the French Community the belief has grown that Flemish practice is the right one, namely a numerus fixus at the start of the studies. Not everyone was convinced of that. It is not an easy debate and I respect French-speaking majority or opposition colleagues who think otherwise. However, the government of the Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles is now convinced of this. The deans of the French language courses now seem to be convinced that it is much better to allow a reasonably well-tuned number of students to enter and frame them well in this important, but also relatively expensive and long-term education than to have far too many students. I believe that we are convinced of this today in the French-speaking university world, that is to say at the level of those who organise the training. The French-speaking Minister for Higher Education, Valérie Glatigny, is also absolutely convinced of this. So not only did we have an evolution because we were able to put tight agreements on paper, it is much more important that now in French-speaking Belgium there is also the conviction that this is a good choice. There has been a lot of discussion about this and I respect the different opinions that still exist. For example, we heard Mrs Merckx in French, I assume on behalf of the PVDA-PTB. Other colleagues also formulated questions. So all respect for those different opinions. Is that theory? No, Mrs Glatigny has told me that she has written an order to work out a decree that organises a numerus fixus and a competition. This is legally developed and the texts are written. Mrs Glatigny has told me that the government of the Federation Wallonie-Bruxelles is aggregating this. We'll be able to follow that up, because that government has a meeting this week. So we will be able to check whether they are putting this on the agenda and whether the process is ongoing or not. I have good hopes. You will of course continue to say, until the decree arrives, that we will be deceived. I'm sure you'll keep repeating that little wiggle, that's for sure. Some people like to feel cheated, but I don't. I have the absolute conviction that Mrs Valérie Glatigny and the French Community Government will do so. You will see that in the coming days and weeks, step by step. Of course, drawing up such a decree takes a lot of time. Speaking of accountability, it was agreed with Mrs Glatigny and the government of the Federation that in the decree which is now being drafted they themselves should settle the fact that they do not have a competition with the numerus fixus in the summer of this year. That's for next year. They are still working with their classic exam, which is also a serious exam. The agreement states in black and white that if a significant overrun of the quota is foreseen for 2028, now in the influx of 2022, they will tell about the number of students admitted to the system with the numerus fixus, from next year and over a period of three years. They'll write that in the decree themselves. I think that is very correct and very transparent. Secondly, there is a clear agreement on a response mechanism. If both the French speakers and the Flemings work with a numerus fixus and there would still be an excess of the quota, for example because the estimation of the number of students who have dropped out during the course of the study, after having passed the difficult entrance exam, was somewhat wrong, then there is a formal agreement to have a response mechanism put into effect immediately on the basis of Article 95 of the WUG Act. That happens immediately. In the year x+1 an overrun compared to the year x is immediately corrected in the quotas. I think it is very important that an agreement can be reached on this in this country. Mrs van Peel, of course your party is not particularly looking for agreements in Community-laden discussions. However, we are, and that is a different starting point. So I think it's a strong match. I'll get to the content. You say that we now had a fine agreement that in the division between Flemings and French speakers a fixed key, which is delivered by the Court of Auditors, would be respected. It would be a shame now that the key would not be respected. Indeed, we use an objective method that looks at needs based on demographics and activity profiles. That's scientific. I think that method is better. Mrs Van Peel, you have to listen to me instead of laughing. That methodology was unanimously approved in the meeting of the Federal Planning Committee in the presence of nine Flemings and six French speakers. She was unanimously approved. Are those nine Flemish traitors? Yeah?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u74	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u75	I'll let them know. You say those nine Flemings are Flemish traitors. Nine Flemish traitors, according to you, I will report it to them so in the Federal Planning Committee approved the methodology together with six French speakers. You can't do that. They must be traitors, because they're on the federal committee. How dare they? I'll call them in. You know some of them, by the way. They are notoriously important experts and leading people in the Flemish educational landscape. For you, however, these are traitors to some thing. That methodology, which you criticise, has been unanimously approved in the Planning Committee. Do you know what's interesting? Even if you are not impressed, you should look at the results. That's identical to the Court of Auditors' key, except maybe a small fraction of a percent. After all, the key of the Court of Auditors distributes the quota over 60/40, so finished 60 on the Dutch-speaking side and 40 on the French-speaking side. What is on the table as a result of the objectified methodology is about the same. That figure does not differ significantly from the figures of the Court of Auditors. So I wonder what you're so worried about. That figure does not differ significantly. In your second point of criticism, you say that the sponge is being pulled over the past and that there is amnesty and a general pardon. Mrs. Van Peel, that's not right. I'll give you the reason. The Federal Planning Committee considers in a methodology, unanimously approved by nine Flemings and six French speakers, the transfers that have been accepted in the past and are likely to be accepted in numbers between now and 2027. They are therefore taken on board in the calculation. They don't talk about sponges, they don't disappear. They are taken on board in the calculation and are absorbed in the proposal on the table, 711 on the French side in 2028 and 1.058 on the Dutch side in 2028. We raised that a little bit, I'll get back to you on that. They're absorbed in it, they're not wiped away at all. Mrs Van Peel, you should see how the figures of the Federal Planning Commission evolve from their proposal for 2027 and their proposal for 2028, which you criticise. I say this in the presence of the French-speaking colleagues. The increase in the number of doctors admitted in the federal Planning Committee proposal is much greater on the Flemish side than on the French-speaking side. It is not about the absolutely fictional draft law that has never been drawn up in the Swedish Government without any effect. I'm not into theories that mean nothing. When one looks at how the Federal Planning Committee is reasoning, one sees a catch-up movement with regard to the quota it makes available on the Flemish side, because it takes account of the fact that there has been a larger offer on the French-speaking side. I can even give you the exact figures. Political consultations have decided to propose a small correction in support of general practitioners' medicine for the quota 2028. We are adding something to that, equally divided between Flemings and French speakers. This brings the quota to the French-speaking side for 2028 on 744 and on the Flemish side to 1.104. That is a very expansionary quota that responds to the concerns of Mrs Rohonyi, Mrs Merckx and many general practitioners and patients in practice, the concerns of whether there will be enough general practitioners. This increase is on average about 20%, if taken as a whole, compared to last year's quota. On the French-speaking side it is 16% and on the Dutch-speaking side it is 26% compared to the quota of the previous year. That was suggested by the Planning Committee. It illustrates that it takes account of the reality of the transfers. You mentioned one last point without working it out, but that is indeed a concern. You're saying the Flemish doctors need to work harder now. Allow me to continue, because that is an interesting discussion. The Planning Committee does indeed take into account that Flemish doctors on average see more patients and work more hours than French-speaking doctors, as one also takes into account that male doctors work more hours in practice than female doctors and that the feminization puts a downward pressure on the activity profile. Mrs van Peel, this is something that is being taken into account, but that actually means that the Flemish doctors deserve more. They deserve more. So they are also paid back more from social security. For federal social security, that's kif-kif.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u76	Minister, could we conclude? I understand it's exciting, but time's up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u77	They are laughing at the banks of the N-VA, but it would be better to go along with a reasoning. For federal social security, that's perfectly fine. That is, after all, a balance. After all, an average doctor in Flanders works and deserves more. An average doctor in French-speaking Belgium earns less. More doctors who earn less balance in federal social security. The next question is if you would force young Flemings to stay in that model if they earn more and work more. The answer is no. The figures are, of course, adjusted year after year. It is an explicit mission of the Planning Committee to see the future development of the activity and the wishes of young doctors about how much they want to work in the future. That's what that planning takes into account. This is perfectly justified. Mrs Van Peel, you will now mark another jeremiade and you must do so. You have no choice. There must never be a Community agreement in this country. I have every respect for that. This proposal is highly justifiable and needs to be implemented. I have every confidence in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u78	Colleagues, Minister, I understand of course that this is an essential debate. I heard it in the questions that were being asked. I have no doubt that it will also be in the lines, but I am counting on you to be enthusiastic but as brief as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u79	I am not excited at all, Mr President. Minister, I find it scandalous how you ended your explanation. Unlike you, I won't hide my reply under a pile of information. You are trying, of course, but you know better than the explanation you give. You are saying here that it is good for social security, because our doctors cost more, because they deserve more. Perhaps you do not remember, but the quota was introduced at the time because too many doctors had too little work to do. They worked less hours, as is the case in French-speaking Belgium, causing too many patients to return, leading to overconsumption. I would very much like to talk to you about the cost of health care and the impact of the language limit on it, not as regards the number of doctors, but as regards the number of patients returning to the doctor for nothing, who undergoes too many examinations and so on. Please explain the figures from French-speaking Belgium in addition to those from Flanders. We shall see how well that fits into your story, because that is just the problem and that institutionalizes you. I can pierce your whole explanation with a lot of blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, In Flanders there are 14.9 doctors per 10,000 inhabitants. In European terms, that's about the average. On the French-speaking side there are 21.3 doctors per 10,000 inhabitants, which you have institutionalized and will allow to grow further. All your blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, If you really believe that that decree will come at the last minute, after all, they have promised it more often and even put it on paper, then you introduced the response mechanism next week, as the coalition agreement states. If they do so, they will never suffer from it. However, you do not dare to do that, because you have to go ahead with the white flag before they can play their act again towards elections. Then you're off the hook. It's as simple as that, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u80	Minister, every time I ask you a question about this, you repeat that planning is needed with a good distribution, with guarantees of quality. I fully agree with that. If you say that effective influx control is essential, then I cannot agree with you more than one hundred percent. But let the problem be that this efficient influx control has not been on the French-speaking side for 25 years and that you are wiping the sponge over it. I can't call it any different, even if you deny it. A barrier, which was very difficult to incorporate into federal law, in particular the distribution of quotas on the basis of population, is even abolished in your very one-sided agreement with the French speakers. Mr. Secretary, there is a matter I do not understand. If you have full confidence in the good intentions and are convinced that the French speakers are also convinced that this is the right choice, and that suddenly after 25 years they realise that they need efficient influx control, why are they resisting the federal response mechanism? If the intention is indeed there, and they will perform it as you believe it, then it will never enter into force. Then what's to stop them from doing it? Then what's to stop you from carrying out your own coalition agreement? I didn't hear that in your long explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u81	Mr President, Minister, in everything that has been said today, there is a kind of framing that the Walloon politicians did not want to implement the agreements made in the past. But I think we forget to talk about something. In Wallonia, there was also an attempt to set up entrance competitions. That has been done. Finally, whenever access to education has been restricted or attempted to threaten access to the profession, it has been the students who have struggled against it. They also filed appeals a few years ago. It is precisely because of them that today more doctors are coming out in Wallonia. I think it's because of the struggle the students led. There's the whole discussion about the potential cost of a doctor. We haven't really talked about what I think is essential. You talked about it a little bit, indirectly. If we have to tackle something, it's not the number of doctors, but it's the way medicine is organized today and the pricing of delivery. This is the cause of overconsumption. This is what needs to be addressed; not necessarily the number of students and doctors. The great forgotten in these political-political discussions is the patient. Both in the North and in the South of the country, the patient is now facing a medical shortage. The population is getting older. There is a lot of technical progress. The profession of doctor evolves. I am therefore firmly convinced that, yes, we must plan, but no, there are not too many doctors. And yes, students, future doctors must also come from the popular classes. However, by setting up an even more severe entrance examination, these studies are made more elitist.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u82	Minister, thank you for your answer. Finally, it is not really your answer that is scandalous, as my colleague from the N-VA said, which unfortunately is no longer present. These are actually their own words. When I hear the N-VA and the Vlaams Belang offend that we can finally put an end to a legal insecurity that was hovering over these medical students, it's shocking. What would these parties have wanted for these students? Depriving them of their INAMI number after years and years of study? I also think that these are words that are not lacking in complacency especially when we know that Minister Ben Weyts of the N-VA also derogated from the INAMI quota – it was in 2019 – because, I quote, "the quotas are too low to meet Flanders' care needs." I even want to say that I am glad that these quotas have been exceeded because I dare not imagine the human balance even worse than would have been known if we had had even fewer doctors to go through this health crisis. I would also like to point out that Francophone students have been supported in their demands by their Dutch-speaking counterparts. So, when I ask you about this, minister, it is certainly not to make the community a reality, but to draw your attention to the fact that planning needs is indeed essential, but that we still do not have the guarantee that the calculation method you have chosen to determine these new quotas will allow enough doctors and dentists to have. On the other hand, this entry contest is a pill that is very difficult to swallow for these students because it is not justified because of the shortage of doctors in the north and south of the country, especially if, as you say, the accountability mechanism could still apply if the quotas were to be exceeded in some way without knowing what the excess would be. Today you justify this competition by the quality of the profession without anyone having ever shown us, so far, that by reducing the number of medical students, the quality of the training would automatically be improved. On the contrary, contrary to what you say, we see that the students, but also the doctors who supervise these students during their internship at our universities, pointed out that we must invest urgently in their supervision rather than putting in place a measure as elitist as the entrance competition.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u83	Colleagues, as I mentioned earlier, we are together until 5:30 p.m., and the minister will be leaving us afterwards. Mrs Sneppe agreed to postpone her inquiry No 55000276I and all the questions attached to it at the next Question Session of the Committee on Health. I thank him for that. Questions No 55000276C by Mrs Dominiek Sneppe, No 55026786C by Mrs Kathleen Depoorter, No 55026816C by Mrs Nathalie Muylle and No 55026843C by Mrs Séverine de Laveleye are postponed. This allows us to continue the agenda in the order of the work planned and to ask a final set of attached questions on fibrosis medicines. After that, ladies and gentlemen, I think we will have concluded our discussions for this day.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u84	Minister, this is not the first time that the issue of Kaftrio's reimbursement has been discussed in our committee. Our patients are still waiting for reimbursement, while most European countries have already decided to repay Kaftrio. Recently, Poland and Bulgaria also did so. In principle, the dossier should be dealt with next month, taking into account the submission of 28 July 2021 and the lead time of 300 days. However, we are picking up signals that the lead time would be longer or that there would even be a suspension. I'd like to hear from you what's true about these signals. What is the most up-to-date state of affairs in Kaftrio's reimbursement file? What about the price negotiations? When can our patients expect an answer on the reimbursement of this medicine? Will you respect the 300-day deadline? Was the handling of the file suspended or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u85	Mr. Since De Caluwé was not there, his question no. 55026648C became moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u86	First of all, I would like to point out that the medicine Orkambi is currently covered by health insurance under certain conditions. There is currently no additional reimbursement procedure in the CTG for that product for the extension of the refund. For the reimbursement of Kaftrio and Symkevi, both in combination with Kalydeco, several procedures are indeed ongoing. They follow the timelines according to the regulations. Both the administration at the RIZIV and my staff in the cabinet and myself are following these files with great attention, just like any other dossier. Therefore, we are all committed to getting patients, their families, friends and caregivers out of the uncertainty about the reimbursement of these medicines as quickly as possible. It is important to make it clear that there is no suspension by the RIZIV. Legally, that's not possible either. However, the rules provide that the applicant may suspend the procedure at certain times. Since the timelines are laid down by law, they are also respected by all parties. As I told you earlier, the company Vertex withdrew an initial submission dossier for the medicinal product Kaftrio for 12 year olds and older early and a second application was only submitted at the end of July 2021. For Symkevi, a file was submitted in August 2021 with a request for reimbursement for 6- to 11-year-olds. Due to the company's request for suspensions, the processing period of the files has exceeded the 300 days you quote, i.e. 180 days for the CTG and 120 days for negotiations. The day on which I have to make a decision shall fall into both procedures by July 2022. I will not give you any more information in order to prevent me from endangering the conduct of the reimbursement procedures and negotiations. Quite recently, mid-February 2022, Vertex submitted a dossier for the combination Kaftrio-Kalydeco for the patient population of 6- to 11-year-olds. The day of decision in those proceedings is currently in August 2022. In that case too, the company can suspend the procedure at certain times, allowing that date to move forward, and a more precise timing cannot be given now. Now I come to the questions about the massive collection of immunosuppressants. The FAGG is not aware of shortages or delivery problems of immunosuppressants. Only one unavailability was reported, namely for the product Imuran 50mg from 28 February 2022 until 22 April 2022. However, other medicinal products are available on the market with the same active substance as Azathioprine. You also had a question about the problems in the supply chain of aerosol dispensers. The problem of chips concerns all sectors and unfortunately also the medical devices sector. Work is under way at European level on the European Chips Act to make Europe a world leader in semiconductors and combat the scarcity of chips. The medical devices sector is also represented in the discussions. Another problem is the implementation of the European Regulations 2017/745 on medical devices and 2017/746 on in vitro diagnostic medical devices. All manufacturers marketing medical devices in the EU will have to comply with these requirements. Some manufacturers have already taken the economic decision to stop the production of certain devices because they do not want to take the necessary steps to bring their devices into line with the new rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u87	It seems that many times the muco patients will have to attract happy socks in order to finally get back the medicine that is already being reimbursed in the rest of Europe and with which very good results can be presented. A great deal of suffering is prevented from hospitalizations and kine treatments by proper use and proper reimbursement of the medicines. Once again, patients in Belgium wait longer than in other countries. I have tabled a motion for a resolution to address the problem of rare diseases and orphan medicinal products. As a result, you expressed the opinion that all the problems in Belgium would have been dealt with. Not at all, Minister. That's not true. Our patients wait an average of 400 days longer than a patient in Germany for a refund. You say that the verdict is in July 2022 or August 2022 at the latest, but the examination of the dossier can still be suspended. The mucoc patients will have to wait again and they have been waiting a long time. I am convinced that a better, faster and more accessible way of working is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u88	Mr Minister, thank you for your answer, although I have not received much new information about what you have already answered in March 2022 on this subject, namely that it will be necessary to wait until August of this year to find out more, unless further time is needed for the negotiations. I hope I don't get to that. Indeed, for patients who suffer from a serious and progressive disease, there is an urgent need. They do not understand why they should still wait to see their medicines refunded while the same medicine is reimbursed in other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic771x.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to interrupt today's sitting, but I am obviously not very happy with the situation and I hope that in the future, all of us - probably myself too - will be more respectful of the timings in the questions, the replies, and in your answers, Minister. I know that you are giving detailed answers, but they take some time and it implies that we are not moving forward in the debate as we would like. There is a long waiting list of questions. I hope that you will be able to give us further question-and-answer sessions quickly, which could last a long time to make real progress. Otherwise, we will find ourselves with a list of questions that will not even be questions for which we will need answers because unfortunately the subject will be out of date.
