ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 55, by Mr Prévot 55027853C by Mrs Rohonyi were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u2	Minister, one of the lessons that we learned from the train crash in Wetteren is that there was no Cyanokit available to combat hydrogen cyanide poisoning. Now we have reports from the field that the availability of antidotes in Belgium would not be up to date at all. The Antitoxin Center would have a network of 22 hospital pharmacists that regularly communicates the status of the stock. The question is whether that is enough. Minister, was there an incentive from the Public Health Office to obtain the list of available antidotes on Belgian soil and to update them regularly? What is the frequency of reporting of the pharmacies in the network to the Antitoxin Centre? I would also like to get an overview of all available antidotes in the hospitals. That can of course be delivered to me in writing. What are the quantities available? Until when are current stocks usable? Was it also foreseen to use them during crises or in emergencies when the reserves were set up? In the event of an emergency, can partners other than the pharmacies mentioned be called upon? If so, how many antidotes are we talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u3	Mrs Depoorter, in answer to your question whether we provide an incentive from the Public Health Office, the answer is negative. The FOD has not given a specific incentive for this. However, the Antitoxin Centre has its own stock of antidotes aimed at making antidotes available to Belgian hospitals. More specifically, the Antitoxin Centre has the more expensive and less frequent antidotes, which hospitals should not be in stock in this way, also taking into account their limited shelf life. The antidotes available at the Antitoxin Centre are aimed at accidental intoxication and less at crises or calamities. I will come back to that in a moment. In answer to your second question, the Antitoxin Centre annually requests the availability of the antidotes at the hospital pharmacy. You also requested an overview of all available antidotes in these hospitals, the quantities, and the expiry date of the current stocks. I can give you the list of the antidotes in stock at the Antitoxin Center right here. You may consider it read out, but it's a relatively long list of brand names and I'd rather hand them over to you. However, the Antitoxin Centre does not pass on the list of available antidotes in hospitals to third parties. The FPS Public Health has two types of antidotes available in the strategic stock, first obidoxime with the brand name Toxogonin 1 ml and second Radiogardase 500 mg. The FPS does not provide information on the exact quantities, as this is a matter of national security. I can also tell you that between 29 June 2021 and 20 July 2021, a survey was organised by the Public Health Office, evaluating the stock of hydroxocobalamin, sodium thiosulphate and atropine sulphate in university, general and category hospitals. I can also give you this data, in particular on the total stock for those three types. Again, I suggest I hand them over to you, because it's not very interesting to read them here. However, you do have detailed data, albeit not the exact quantities. After all, this is yet another matter of national security. You asked another pertinent question, namely what numbers of antidotes are necessary and justified in what type of crisis. Let me explain our policy on this matter. On 25 May 2022, the Strategic Stock platform will be established to advise on strategic decisions to ensure a large physical or virtual stock that can be used in case of shortages in an acute health crisis and for exceptional or dangerous pathogens. That platform is an important initiative. You may recall that it was one of your recommendations in the special committee responsible for investigating the COOVID-19 pandemic. The aim is to regularly evaluate the methodology in order to achieve cost-effective and efficient storage. The platform will be based, among other things, on international benchmarking and a scientific evaluation of the various medical products - in general, we are talking in English about medical counselling services needed for the Belgian strategic stock. The stock on antidotes will therefore certainly be part of the platform's mission. I am pleased to say that this will be formally launched on 25 May 2022. It's about time. This can therefore be included in the work immediately. The platform will consist of permanent members of the Federal Public Health Service, the Ministry of Defence, the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products and the National Crisis Centre. In addition to these permanent members, the Platform will use a network of partners and stakeholders, including the health administrations of the federated entities, logistics partners, public health research institutes, European partners, hospitals and experts in the field. Finally, the question of whether other partners should still be called upon in the event of an emergency will also be addressed in the consultation with the members of the Strategic Stock platform. It may be important to mention that the recently established European HERA has also identified the presence of the strategic stock for health crises in the Member States as an important priority. This will also be an interesting guide for Belgium. In the longer term, certain stocks may be managed jointly at European level. So much for my answer to your questions. I will make sure that my text is also sent to you by e-mail. This also gives you the lists of the exact brand names and the general names to which I referred.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for the list. I'll check it out. The establishment of that platform is indeed very important. I therefore hope that it will be rolled out quickly and that it will certainly be structural. You will no doubt remember the strategic stock of mouth masks that was destroyed. At the time of the outbreak of the crisis, it was found that this stock had not been replenished. I hope that we can work in a continuum on the platform, with continuous evaluation but also with up-to-date knowledge of what is present on the ground. That is the concern that has come to our attention. If there is another major crisis today, I am thinking of a disaster such as that in Wetteren or a pandemic, then we are not ready for it. It is being worked on, but I can say that this is urgent. When I was talking about the other partners, of course, I was talking about first-line care. For example, the iodine pills can be obtained via the house pharmacist. We know that proximity is very important in times of crisis. Of course, not every pharmacist or general practitioner can be saddled with a large stock of antidotes, but a decentralisation of the stock, close to the patient, seems to me to be a piste to investigate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u5	Minister, it is the right time for my question, because your group and the other majority groups voted away my motion for a resolution on orphan medicinal products this morning. Based on the WAIT indicator of 2021 that was recently published, we note that no or little progress has been made on the availability of orphan medicinal products. Belgium is around the European average, but the countries around us are doing considerably better. However, the accessibility of these medicines is very important, as this reduces the general invoice and thus the effective accessibility for patients who need this therapy................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The analysis of the delay in access includes the slow administrative processing and approval. In the meantime, several European Member States have taken steps to address this, but the common thread remains that cooperation between stakeholders and an adjustment of administration are needed. How do you respond to the lack of progress in accessing orphan medicinal products? Will you take an initiative with the stakeholders involved and engage in consultation to address the problem? What specific objective do you want to pursue in terms of improving the accessibility of orphan medicinal products and within what time horizon do you see this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u6	Mrs Depoorter, since the entry into force of the European Regulation 141/2000, the so-called orphan medicinal product legislation, the granting of marketing authorisations for orphan medicinal products has become an exclusive European matter. The Belgian Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products (FAGG) therefore has no direct influence on that process nor on the associated timelines. However, the FAGG plays an active role in supporting procedures, including through active representation in the various relevant bodies and committees of the European Medicines Agency, such as the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products, the Scientific Advice Working Group and the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use. When the FAGG takes up a role as rapporteur or co-rapporteur for one of the procedures in those bodies or committees, it is always intended to complete the evaluations within the foreseen timelines........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, the timelines for these evaluations are already fixed in advance. The FAGG itself can't change that either. The only other way in which the FAGG can exert a direct influence on the weight indicator's availability influences is through the evaluation of the effectiveness and safety of so-called programmes on the provision of medicinal products for use in distressing cases, the compassionate use programs (CUP). In doing so, as you know, patients will have access to treatment before there is a European authorisation to place the medicine on the market. Here too, the FAGG strives to achieve this in the shortest possible time and according to the highest possible scientific standards. However, the responsibility for the application and timing of the CUPs lies with the pharmaceutical companies themselves and cannot be enforced by the FAGG. You may recall that I have had to reply to good questions from colleagues on several occasions that the company has not applied. Well, then, of course, we're a little stuck there. Once an orphan medicinal product has obtained a European authorisation, the responsibility for accessibility of the product moves to the national health technology assessment entities. In Belgium, this falls within the competence of the RIZIV, in particular the Committee on Medicinal Products. As you know, the timelines of the CTG are strictly defined. Here too, pharmaceutical companies have an important responsibility for timely access. It is also the companies that have to submit a dossier with a request for evaluation and reimbursement. We do have opportunities in Belgium to offer medication and treatments to patients quickly or more quickly. For certain innovative medicines, a concession can be granted for a medicinal product, even before it has been authorised, through the so-called CATT, the Commission for advice in the event of temporary relief. This is possible when used in the treatment of a serious or fatal condition for which there is no therapeutic alternative. That procedure, which entered into force at the end of 2014, and as a procedure for early temporal reimbursement can continue, has been named Unmet Medical Need. It is an additional possibility offered by the government to companies to bring innovative medicines to the Belgian market more quickly. This procedure allows a medicine to be available for many months and even more than a year earlier to treat patients, but despite the possibilities that this procedure creates, it is actually little used and therefore patients are not really able to enjoy rapid access to potentially valuable therapies. The incentive to initiate this procedure does not seem large enough for the companies. Also through the usual refund procedure for the CTG there is, and I quote the Cancer Barometer: "a delayed availability of medicinal products that is significant in Belgium, not because of the RIZIV, but rather because of the strategies of the pharmaceutical companies." I suspect that you and I deeply regret this, but we cannot leave it at that. Reforms are needed in the procedures to address this problem. A few months ago, a core group, composed of representatives of the policy cell, the FPS Public Health, Sciensano and the RIZIV, was set up to shape the policy strategy on cancer and rare diseases. Accessibility is one of the spearheads around which this group works, and that is why we put cancer and rare diseases in a group. This group is now finalising a number of concrete proposals which should lead to concrete improvements in procedures and faster access to valuable new medications. We are discussing this with patients' associations, but this must of course come back to the discussions which I am now launching very specifically with the pharmaceutical industry in the framework of the pharmaceutical pact announced in the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u7	Minister, it is of course a bit easy to transfer the hot potato to the pharmaceutical sector. You know very well that the deadlines applied in our country are very long, compared to other countries. If we include the WAIT indicator with regard to availability, we can see that about 75 medicines became available in our country in the first year. In Germany, Austria and Denmark, twice as many innovative therapies are available to patients. You cited the ETR. There too, however, there are a lot of restrictions, causing pharmaceutical companies to hesitate. You spoke yourself about the combination therapies. I have already pointed it out to you. One of the major problems with the combination therapies is the reimbursement system, with Article 81. When applying for a combination therapy and it concerns, for example, two firms, the firms must agree on how to finance the refund. The entire system must be re-evaluated. This can ensure that our patients have access to that innovation. Now it is really not enough. You've set up a group. I'll follow it up. I hope that there will indeed be progress by next year or the year after, because the WAIT indicator comes out of progress every year. However, I do not have very much faith in it at the moment. To be continued, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u8	Mr Minister, the operationalisation of ventilation is a project on which I have always insisted enormously since it is one of the major weapons in the face of the evolution of the epidemic, especially in order to anticipate the possible next steps. The government has approved a draft ventilation bill which consists of the obligation to install a CO2 detector as well as a label ensuring good air quality in cinemas, restaurants or sports halls. Even if detectors are a good thing, it is obviously largely insufficient. What is the operational plan? What about the budget? What clear and effective concrete actions will be put in place beyond a model of rules and sanctions? What is the agreement between the federal government and the federated entities? I was able to read in the parliamentary work of the federated entities what ministers did not commit themselves to do! As a result, there is still a great deal of operational uncertainty with regard to them. Why are some public or public buildings not affected when they are at risk of epidemic transmission – especially schools? Do we not miss an important lever in the fight against covid-19, including for perhaps more difficult months to come?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u9	Mrs Fonck, I think we fully agree on the substance. The government has approved a draft bill on indoor air quality. This bill sets out a sequence of obligations that will achieve satisfactory levels of air quality, including, as you mentioned, using CO2 detectors, but also based on a risk analysis, an action plan, and finally, in a second phase, the posting of an air quality information label. The law will establish cross-sectional obligations at all places welcoming the public so that the same corpus applies everywhere in Belgium. It also provides that the places concerned will be defined in a royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers, which would enter into force one year after the adoption of the law. After a sustained consultation with the federated entities and the sectors concerned, the proposal that will be made will initially concern - this is our idea - the Horeca, including the world of the night, the rooms hosting cultural, sporting and other events. In concrete terms, there will be a certain spread and phasing per sector. In 2022, a budget is foreseen for personnel support, the development of databases on the registration of purification systems and on certification; and for studies that will enable, for example, the implementation of the public places certification scheme provided for in the draft law. With regard to the 2023 budget and future years, I will table a note as part of the new initiatives to be discussed in the budget conclave of 2023. To date, we are awaiting the opinion of the Council of State, which will be important in particular with regard to competence and second reading by the Council of Ministers. Finally, it is planned to prepare and conclude a cooperation agreement to extend the scope of the places concerned, as you suggest, for example, to public buildings or to the public.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u10	Minister, I can hear your message. If we agree, it's about the big goals. I remain fundamentally convinced that effective ventilation is a major weapon and that is still widely demonstrated. The ventilation has not been deployed now for two years and it is urgent to deploy it. That should have been done yesterday. That is how we can avoid new clusters. Your project - and when I say your project, I actually aim at all levels of power - is insufficient on two aspects. The first concerns sectors. Too many fundamental sectors are in fact left out of this framework today, and I am thinking in particular of schools. This is an important place for epidemic transmission and an issue of child health protection. The other component consists of scope and objectives. This should not be limited to placing CO2 sensors and a label. Ventilation systems must be deployed to ensure that indoor air quality is similar to that of outdoor air. This is important for covid 19 but it is also fundamental, more generally, in terms of public health. I will continue to put pressure on you, as well as on the federated entities. We lost a lot of time before deploying this fundamental weapon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u11	Minister, the European Medicines Agency and the European Centre for Disease Control examined the second booster shot in a publication. Their advice is that it is only advisable for 80-plussers. What value do you attach to that advice? What position has been taken in the meantime? For what age is the second booster shot given in our country? At the moment the 80-plussers are invited, but how do you see the sequel? Will you distinguish between care providers and non-care providers in the invitation for a second booster shot? In addition, I have tabled another question on the specific omikron vaccines. Vaccines would be placed on the market or adapted to the omicron variant of the COVID-19 virus. They would be administered in other European countries. Last week, in the technical session, we were all able to take note of Sciensano's report. According to the Task Force and Sciensano, it is not yet certain that our vaccine will also be effective against future variants or against the variant XE, which is now in circulation. What is the standard scenario that is now envisaged for the period September-October? Which scenarios are taken into account? Have specific vaccines been ordered against the omikron variant? Have they arrived yet? Are we negotiating new types of vaccines? When do you expect a decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u12	Perhaps those questions have been tabled before, but decisions have already been taken. Following the advice of the High Health Council and the Task Force, the Interministerial Conference on Health decided on 6 May on the second booster. I'll read you the text. I have it here in French. A second booster dose may be given to persons 80 years of age and older living at home and residents in rest and nursing homes without age limits, on an individual basis. This second dose may be administered at least four months after the first booster dose. The federated entities may determine the modalities of this approach. It is not really a systematic campaign, as we have done in previous rounds, but an invitation is sent on an individual basis to 80+ people outside the residential care centres and persons of all ages in the residential care centres applying the general principle, which is in the hands of the Länder. In Flanders, a campaign is being launched in the residential care centres as was done last time. Vaccination is, of course, always voluntary. For the 80+, a letter will leave in Flanders informing people that the vaccine is available and that they can be vaccinated with a second booster. In case of doubt as to whether this is appropriate for anyone, the person may discuss it with his or her doctor. It was decided that an offer would be made on an individual basis for For the future, we have received a number of scenarios from the task force, from the administration of a second booster to the most vulnerable to a generalised administration of a second booster to the entire population. According to the Task Force, the scenario to be chosen is assessed by the political leaders, together with the Task Force, on the basis of epidemiological development. We haven't made any decisions for that at the moment. We can't do that now either. It would be strange, at a time when the virus circulation is rather stable until delayed, to make a decision on what to do in the coming months. At the moment there is little pressure or much less pressure in the hospitals. In other words, we have not chosen which of these scenarios we want. I will not go into detail about all these scenarios. After all, they have already been published on our website. The type of vaccines and the potentially expected variants were requested. We have developed and differentiated the vaccine portfolio for 2022-2023 through the European Union's Joint Procurement Programme, where there are contracts with five companies, namely Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, Novavax, Valneva and Sanofi-GSK, for more than 35 million vaccines, of which the vast majority is 97%, according to mRNA technology. With a view to variants, do we need new vaccines? Well, the contracts with the two producers of mRNA vaccines contain a clause providing that the European Member States can obtain variant-adjusted vaccines. This has been considered since the rise of the omikron variant, due to the many mutations of the omikron variant compared to the delta variant and the uncertainty about the protection by the first generation mRNA vaccines for people confronted with the omikron variant. The first generation of mRNA vaccines was based on the initial Wuhan variant. A booster dose of the first generation mRNA vaccines appears to be effective in the short term against severe COVID-19, against mortality from the omicron variant. However, the effectiveness against infection and mild symptoms of the omicron variant is more limited than in previous variants and this protection also appears to decrease more rapidly. Allow me to stress the following. This is really important and it explains why we have not yet taken a final decision on what we will do in the coming months. No data are yet available on the duration of protection against serious forms of COOVID-19 by the omikron variant. There is also uncertainty about the effectiveness of the first generation mRNA vaccines against future variants. Pfizer started a Phase 3 clinical study in 18- to 55-year-olds in the United States on 25 January 2022 to assess the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of a monovalent Omikron-adapted vaccine. Moderna has also started developing a monovalent omicron-adapted vaccine. That product of Moderna is currently in phase 2. In addition, Moderna also develops a monovalent vaccine adapted to the beta and delta variant. Moderna also develops multivalent covid19 vaccines, which should then be effective in relation to the beta variant, the wild type and the delta variant. Moderna also has a combination vaccine COVID-19 and influenza in preclinical stages. You will also find data on this. The clinical studies of Pfizer, BioNTech and Moderna for those mono- and multivalent vaccines are ongoing. No information on the efficacy of these variant-adjusted vaccines is currently available. Of course, the choice of vaccine for possible future booster campaigns will depend on this. An EEA opinion on the omicron-adapted monovalent vaccines is expected in the near future. It will then take some time before those vaccines are available, because the production processes need to be adapted. An EEA opinion on the multivalent vaccines, which I mentioned, is not expected for the summer. Finally, we have taken a decision on what the opinion is now. This means an invitation for a second booster for the For the future, we still have a range of scenarios, which we consider useful, but from which we have not yet chosen. Of course we cannot wait too long, colleagues. It is important that after this week's meeting of the Consultative Committee, the Inter-Ministerial Conference should look at this again. That seems appropriate to me, but I cannot say when we will take the decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u13	Minister, I will raise two points. The first one is next. It is of course logical that a decision should be made as to whether a fourth dose should be taken on an individual basis. I have no concern with this; however, I find that there is a concern for people under the age of 80 outside rest homes and rest and care homes. Often, people under the age of 80 are much more fragile than people in nursing homes. They're at home, though. Even if there is an indication recognised by the attending physician, they will therefore not be able to benefit from a fourth dose of vaccine. It is contradictory to say at the same time that this will be done on an individual basis and that if the person is under the age of 80, even if he is very fragile, even if there is an indication, because he is outside the nursing home, he will not be able to benefit from the vaccine. Many of these people received their third dose well over six months ago. We have heard the ECDC's position, which foresees a wave in the next two months on European territory by the latest variant BA5. I find this to be a matter of concern. Secondly, if you answered a lot, minister, I did not get an answer to my question about vaccine effectiveness. This is clearly better when there is a switch from the initial messenger RNA vaccine to the other booster messenger RNA vaccine. So either Pfizer in initial and Moderna in booster, or Moderna in initial and Pfizer in booster. Has this been taken into account in the analysis of the Higher Council of Health and the Vaccination Task Force? This point needs to be considered. Indeed, if the vaccine effectiveness of this process allows for greater and, above all, longer coverage, it is a major and positive point for public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u14	You say that you have not yet decided, but that you will have to do so soon. I agree with you on the latter, but it will also be necessary to make a sound decision on the vaccine to be administered. You should point out that the joint procurement clause provides for the possibility of adapting the vaccines. What worries me, however, is that there is still a very large stock of vaccines. They'll be administered first. Will the optimisation of long-term effects be taken into account? I am talking about the switch of the different types of vaccines that are given to the patients. How will you organize things? I note that there are a lot of scenarios and that primary care is ready to vaccinate. But you do not yet have a fee, not for the pharmacist who is preparing, not for the pharmacist who is administering it, not for the general practitioner who would administer the vaccine to his patients in larger vaccination entities. Volunteers should also be mobilised when you start a general vaccination. You don't have much time. I invite you to communicate with these people in good time so that they can organise themselves for the autumn. After all, the expectation is that we would be faced with a new wave. We must be able to protect our people from this, if necessary. We must also keep an eye on the 70s, the seventy-five, the 80s who do not have access to the second booster or who have not taken it. They also dare to travel. I'm asking you to make sure they don't get into trouble with the covid pass.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u15	Minister, we have talked about the shortage of general practitioners and the pressure on primary care. The GPs have given up by covid and are still giving up. When the newspaper is opened, a lot of general practitioners want to stop. On April 7th we read in Trends that one GP in three is considering stopping the profession. That is a structural problem. We have talked about it before, these people are on their gums and do not feel that they are sufficiently supported by the government. They don't really like it anymore, even now, in a slightly calmer covid period. With autumn in mind, the pressure on their shoulders remains high, while they have not yet been able to recover. What will you do about it? How much importance do you attach to this coverage? Isn't it substantial if 30% of the general practitioners say they want to quit? How are you gonna do that? How will you possibly finance this approach? I have already suggested several times that you should put a home nurse into practice, someone who can help. I have also asked you whether you are providing administrative outsourcing for the general practitioners in the autumn. How will you organise the autumn and the coming winter period and support the general practitioners? How many general practitioners have already stopped? Can you give the breakdown by region and by province, with the percentages?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u16	Minister, the national agreement on medical funds 2022-2023 aims to strengthen general practitioners' practice in order to make the health system more resilient to global health crises. This objective must be achieved through the use of care support staff. Furthermore, the agreement provides for a financial concession linked to the organisation of practice. For the purposes of implementation, the agreement refers to Article 36 of the Law of 14 July 1994 which allows financial compensation for the practical organisation. The measure must comply with Article 35u of Royal Decree No. 78 on the pursuit of health professions. Article 95 of the Law of 10 May 2015 on the exercise of the health professions amended Article 35d and subsequently replaced Article 32 of the Law of 22 April 2019 on the quality of practice in health care the provision in question. The evolution requires further updating of the Law of 14 July 1994, but should not impede the implementation of the Medicomut Agreement. This is quite technical, but that is our legislation that has been in place for a long time and is being updated. What is the state of implementation of the national agreement on the strengthening of general practitioners' practice? What type of care support staff will be allowed to be employed? What will their duties be? Is there any way out of this? What guarantees, given the far-reaching transfer of powers regarding the organisation of the first line, that the implementation of the medical-health fund agreement remains within the powers of the federal government? Will you update Article 36 of the Law of 14 July 1994? Which means do you consider best suited, with respect for the quality law?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u17	Mrs Depoorter, you outlined the problem in general and Mrs De Block asked a number of specific questions about it. In general, I do believe that general medical practice is under very heavy pressure. This was, of course, increasingly the case during the covid pandemic. The GPs worked very hard back then. They have really worked a lot of hours in difficult circumstances. A series of measures have been taken to help, first by Mrs De Block and then by this government. I think about the teleconsultations. I'm sure they helped. This also included a financing system. Mrs De Block has done that. We have also taken other measures, for example with regard to testing, not only organizationally. We have created the possibility of jointly organising testing and purchasing centres. Quite recently we have also provided self-evaluation tools for people with symptoms, so that everyone was avoided walking to the home doctor. You do not hear me saying that this is enough, I just want to say that all kinds of initiatives have been taken in the course of the pandemic. At this somewhat calmer moment in the pandemic, we are indeed finding that the general practitioners are exhausted. That is also a major structural problem. That structural problem, Mrs Depoorter, does indeed require more support, but frankly also a remembrance of how we wish to organise medical practice in the future. Which profiles can general practitioners provide additional support in their practice? That was Mrs De Block's more specific question. How do we intend to develop our relationship with the patient? Which funding system is appropriate? I believe that we must begin to address these fundamental questions, because they are important for the future of general medicine. I am currently considering how we can get these things well organized and with the participation of the general practitioners on the agenda. I believe that it is also important to consider the administrative burden. In the past few days, there have been a lot of complaints from general practitioners about the paperassery that is associated with sick notes for short absences. Mrs Depoorter, I hope that I can count on your support wherever you come and speak to partially abolish those sick notes for very short absences, with a reduction in the number of times that can be done. I believe that general practitioners with other things should be doing this. I think that is a very important priority. I shall now answer Mrs De Block's more specific questions. The agreement on medical funds 2022-2023 indeed foresees that proposals will be made to strengthen the team around the general practitioner, including through financial support for the use of care support staff in general practitioners' practice. That is actually a confirmation of the things you have said. These proposals should form part of an approach that takes into account a changed organisational model of general practitioner medicine, the change in the care tasks package and the need to adequately finance it. The Medicomut has committed itself to drawing up a concrete proposal with a view to a concrete application in 2023 and respecting the powers conferred on the Communities. In order to get back to the issue of powers, I believe that this proposal must and will respect the powers. This means that we will confine ourselves to the powers of the federal government. In the past, there were differences of opinion about what the best form of care support is and what the goal should be. I hope that we can overcome previous differences of opinion in the world of doctors and experts, so that we can quickly reach a concrete and supported proposal. You asked if I would update Article 36 of the Law of 14 July 1994. For the sake of clarity, that Article provides that the King shall, by decision of the Council of Ministers, determine the conditions according to which the compulsory medical care insurance and benefits provide a financial compensation for the costs incurred in organising a practice, in accordance with the standards laid down by law. Article 95 of the Coordinated Law of 10 May 2015 on the practice of healthcare professions replacing Article 35duodecies has been repealed and replaced by Article 32 of the Law of 22 April 2019 on quality practice in healthcare. We should therefore read all of this as references to Article 32 of the Law of 22 April 2019 on quality practice in healthcare. The Article 36o, with which I began my speech, should be updated in the sense that the reference to Article 35u of Royal Decree No. 78 should be replaced by the reference to Article 32 of the Law of 22 April 2019 on quality practice in healthcare, which entered into force on 1 January 2022. That was a technical explanation and a little intellectual acrobatics to say that the update takes the form of a modification of the reference and the correct reference is to Article 32 of the law that you know very well, because you have actually laid the foundations for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u18	Minister, your answer certainly included a lot of questions at the beginning. So there is still a great deal of uncertainty and uncertainty. As far as the administrative burden of the general practitioners is concerned, I would like to remind you of the new setting in which a general practitioner works. He or she gets messages via SMS, Messenger, WhatsApp, email, phone and notes in the mailbox, no matter how, asking for a prescription to be placed on the patient's eID. It is incredibly difficult to work with the administrative clumsy that has arisen. I think one should have a listening ear for the blue crocodile's initiative. Minister, please listen to the signal from the general practitioners. As far as the agreement is concerned, you indicate that in 2023 there would be a realisation of the aid in practice. That is better than nothing, of course, but let us hope that it will not be too late for a lot of general practitioners who say today that they would like to stop. Moreover, you have not given the required figures on how many general practitioners have already stopped. I will return this question in writing. You also talked about the powers and the difficulty. Mr Minister, just implement the government agreement, transfer health to the regions and then they can decide for themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for the state of play. So now it's up to the medicomut. I understand you will make the legislative amendment to make the referral more correct. Of course, that's very good. We must also be realistic and realise that there is no panacea for the organisation, financing and administrative burden. Carry on the good work .
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u20	Minister, the medical profession is very often forced to deal with cases of gender-related violence, whether sexual, physical, psychological or female genital mutilation. All too often, however, these medical personnel are unable to take care of them effectively. That is why, last June, three textbooks were produced by the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men and the College of Physicians, under your auspices and that of the Secretary of State, Mrs Schlitz. These manuals are intended to raise awareness and strengthen health-care personnel in the care of victims through an elaborate and precise practical framework. In addition, the Sexual Violence Centres (SPCs) provide care to victims by specially trained medical personnel on sexual violence issues. On 20 April, my colleague Sophie Merckx asked you about this and you replied that a budget of €65,000 for the training of health workers in the field of domestic and sexual violence and female genital mutilation had been released. This budget should also be used to develop tools to help health professionals identify, treat and track victims. However, you could not clarify whether this was a new budget or not. However, this clarification is important. You also said you were exploring the possibility of identifying additional means to develop an online training route for domestic violence, with specific modules for target groups such as the elderly and children, based on what already exists for sexual violence. Almost a month later, can you tell us what this reflection is about? Have you had any feedback on the implementation of the three manuals developed last June? If so, is the finding positive? Do these manuals add value to medical personnel? Are they sufficient? In what other way do you intend to work for the training of medical personnel in general - and not only staff working within the CPHAs - on gender-based violence? Has any specific training been provided to all health care staff working within the CPHAs (nurses, gynaecologists, psychiatrists)? Could you clarify the guidelines for this training? Is it supplemented by continuing training? In general, what is the budget allocated to training health-care personnel on gender-related violence, ideally by disaggregating the amounts between the health-care staff working within the CPHAs and the others?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u21	Mrs Rohonyi, I do not have answers to all the questions you are asking, but I can provide you with the following answers. Since 2009, training courses on the detection of treatment and follow-up of victims of domestic and sexual violence and female genital mutilation have been regularly organized for hospital care providers. During the covid-19 pandemic, online training on sexual violence for hospital care providers was developed. As part of the above-mentioned training, I would also like to see online training developed for domestic violence, as well as specific modules for the target groups, namely the elderly and children. Basic training on female genital mutilation will continue in 2022 and will be financed from the State budget. In addition, initiatives will be taken to assist general practitioners in detecting, advising and guiding victims of domestic and sexual violence and female genital mutilation. As from 2022, the State budget provides for an annual amount of EUR 56,000 for the training of health-care personnel in hospitals on domestic and sexual violence and female genital mutilation, as well as for the development of support tools for health-care personnel in the detection, treatment and monitoring of victims of domestic and sexual violence and female genital mutilation. These are, as you have said, actions taken with my colleague Mrs Schlitz, who is probably better equipped than I am to answer certain questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answer, even if it is only very partial. I regret that, because I believe that as Minister of Health, you have an enormous role to play in the training of doctors and the proper care of victims they would have to know in the course of their profession. I think it is essential to ensure that this is properly taken care of and, through it, the training of all the staff responsible for this care. There is a lot of talk about police officers, lawyers and magistrates, but doctors too have a role to play. For the rest, I will have to ask the questions which have not been answered by your colleague, Mrs Schlitz.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u23	Debates of the European Parliament 55027013C by Mrs Merckx and No. Mr Warmoes (Commission); Mr Warmoes; Mr Warmoes; Mr Warmoes; Mr Warmoes; Mr Warmoes; Mr Warmoes; Mr Warmoes; Mr Warmoes; Mr Warmoes; Mr Warmoes; Mr Warmoes; Mr Warmoes; Mr Warmoes; Mr Warmoes; Mr Warmoes; Mr Warmoes; Mr Warmoes; Mr Warmoes; Mr Warmoes; Mr Warmoes; Mr
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u24	Mr Minister, when a patient is nursed in a hospital, communication between a general practitioner and a specialist is possible via the Collaborative Healthcare Platform (CoZo). For example, medical data can be exchanged quickly and safely. It doesn't apply to dentists. Dentists, who benefit from knowledge of the patient's medical context, cannot make use of this, so there is much more difficult communication with hospitals, for example. I'll give you a small example from my own practice. I'm a dentist parodontist. Occasionally, I have to do a biopsy of an injury to the mouth. If I have that analysed in the hospital, for example, I cannot comply with the report protocol of the investigation. That complicates and slows things down. Patients often wait for the results. Why can't medical data be exchanged between dentist and physician/specialist until today? What is preventing the integration of dentists into such systems? How do you view the integration of dentists into digital collaborative platforms?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u25	The legal frameworks in the law on patients' rights and in the quality law provide for the possibility in the Royal Decree No. 78 health care providers with a therapeutic relationship to the person concerned in order to gain access to information that is useful and necessary in the context of quality, continuity and safety of care. The same goes for the dentists. If the therapeutic relationship is known to the eHealth platform and if the person concerned has given his informed consent, the information made available through the hubmetahub system by the different care providers is also available to the dentist, on the basis of the access matrix, approved by the eHealth Platform Management Committee and by the Information Security Committee. For a dentist, this includes access to information on allergies, medical risks, medication schedule, dental examinations, journal notes and generic lab results. The software systems used by the dentist must of course integrate with the hubmetahub system. The dental software is currently working on accreditation criteria, which would be available at the end of this year. It includes integration with the hubmetahub system as a criterion. It is then up to the dentist to purchase a Homologized SW package or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. If I understand you correctly, better access to such data will be possible from the end of this year. I believe that access is essential. It is therefore a pity that its realization has been delayed for some time. In my opinion, it should be an integral part of health care. That is not a plea for dentists, but above all for the sake of public health. There is increasingly a link between dental problems or oral problems and general conditions such as Alzheimer's, diabetes and cardiovascular diseases. The integrated care, in which all the walls between care providers are broken, is therefore really important. This includes a simple communication platform. I am very curious about the new developments and I will certainly advertise them to my colleagues as soon as that possibility exists. I think we will all be grateful to make use of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u27	Mrs Gijbels, I fully agree; you are absolutely right. The accreditation criteria have been promised by the end of this year. From then on, the dentist can indeed get started with a Homologized software package.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u28	Madam President, Minister, two years after the beginning of the covid-19 pandemic, some youth still suffer the mental health consequences of the health measures we have had to learn to live with. Since the relaxation of the measures, many young people have regained a certain balance in their social life (school and out-of-school rhythm). However, others have become more self-reliant and are still experiencing major difficulties. Although coronavirus is not the sole cause of this tension, the child-psychiatric mental health sector is concerned about the saturation of child-psychiatry services in our country. In view of this, the child psychiatrists call for preventive measures in schools. Minister, one year after the release of the €20 million budget to strengthen the teams accompanying these young people, do you still have a global view of the situation in our hospitals and psychiatry centres? This $20 million lifebuoy that you released and that was welcome could be a structural solution for these hospitals until the problem was resolved?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u29	Mrs H annoyance, I confirm your comments on the problem on the ground and the urgency of taking action. My answer will be limited to my federal jurisdiction. It is important for the organisation of an adequate policy in this area to draw up as complete and complete a picture as possible of the situation of child psychiatry services in Belgium. To this end, we can draw on the available sources of quantitative data and, in particular, the minimum psychiatric summary and monitoring of psychiatric services for children and adolescents. In addition, we supplement this data with more qualitative data, including the results of the periodic surveys organized by Sciensano in the context of the covid-19 health surveys and the contacts that my team and I have with representatives of the sector and mental health actors. I imagine that at the hearings that will take place tomorrow, some of this data will be communicated. It is important to further enrich the collection. Tomorrow, you'll probably discuss it, too. The measures that the government has announced since the end of 2020 remain in place for the time being, including the continued development of front-line psychological care. It takes time and, actually, it's a little frustrating. I have therefore asked the network managers to speed up the pace of the deployment of the first line on the ground. There is the strengthening of mobile crisis teams of mental health networks. Staff are engaged and things are in place. There is the intensification of child psychiatrist services and the creation of liaison teams that have been mentioned in this commission. It is both important to develop psychological care at the front line, so that children and adolescents can find psychological support more easily, and to organize interventions and orientations as early as possible. It is also important to have a complementary investment effort in mobile teams. The staffing of psychiatric hospital services for children and adolescents has been intensified with the addition of a function of articulation and transmission of care. For example, more children with complex psychological problems can be cared for in hospital services. The waiting time until admission is filled and assisted and the transition to family status or follow-up care outside the walls of the psychiatric or general hospital can be made easier. I am not going to repeat everything I have already said about what has been done because it always seems quite complacent when we know the problems. However, I stress once again that I have identified an available budget of EUR 35 million, which I now want to invest in psychiatric care, both in outpatients and in the capacity of hospitals, in a diversified way. Indeed, we must take into account quite different needs, depending on the regions and subregions of our country. We have prepared at length the call to be made. I hope to be able to put into practice quickly the way in which this amount of $35 million will be used. It could strengthen psychiatric care for young people. As I have just said, an appeal will be launched very soon. This will be an opportunity for you to see more precisely the projects on which we are going to work. I will not say any more today because we are in the process of refining the file. It will take a little more time. On the ground, some measures will be continued, others will be gradually developed and implemented towards the end of the year or the beginning of next year. This is an important investment that we will probably still have an opportunity to discuss.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u30	Minister, thank you for your response and for the investments that will be made. We will have the opportunity to discuss the matter again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u31	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Bacquelaine's 55027084C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u32	According to a study by the UZ Gent, Belgium was more affected in terms of the coronados compared to the number of infections. The cause of this was attributed to the overreporting, but this study shows only partial accuracy. Even if this factor of overreporting is taken into account, Belgium continues to be above it. According to the study, the state of health of a country partly explains how hard a country is affected in the number of deaths. In the ranking before the corona crisis, Belgium was already in the second worst category. According to the study, this could be an important reason for the poor figures. Are you aware of this study? Were you aware of the poor ranking of our citizens' health status? What will you do to improve our people's health? Your policy paper refers to the validation of the new Federal Food and Health Plan by the end of 2021. How's that going? What new actions were included? Can you outline the timeline for us to apply what is recommended in the plan? Prevention is mainly a regional competence. What priorities have already been defined in consultation with the Länder?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u33	Minister, my question is only about the status of the Federal Nutrition Health Plan (FNIH). In 2016, Belgium adopted its first NFP. Its aim was to promote healthy eating behaviour in order to combat obesity, sedentaryness and diseases that a poor diet engranges. The impact of obesity-related diseases on health budgets was estimated at EUR 600 million in 2000, according to Sciensano figures. Last October, you recalled that the plan's strategy was largely based on a proactive approach to the private sector that you recommend limiting commercial communications for foods rich in fat, salt and sugar. In fact, you were talking about "awareness-raising of the big distribution" in committee, a little over six months ago. You also mentioned the importance of the food environment and an informative effort. Nutriscore seemed to you to be a key element that you wanted to see become mandatory. You told us on this occasion that the administration was developing the actions of the PFNS 2021-2030. Minister, when will this future plan be presented? We are already in 2022 and we know that you and your administrations have been very busy in recent months, but this may be the time to see it happen. Who is it built with? Will it be debated in Parliament? Indeed, I think this has never been the case with this type of plan. Has an assessment been made of the results of the previous plan, given that the nutritional status of the population has continued to deteriorate from year to year? If so, could you explain the process for obtaining this evaluation? Are the objectives and means of the plan being revised upwards in the new copy? You were potentially referring to a taxing mechanism and incentives for healthy eating. Where are we? Have you put forward proposals to tackle a powerful cause of poor nutrition, especially for children, what is advertising for foods that are too fat, too salty, too sweet, for example on the basis of a bad nutrient? Many food aid actors are calling for "sustainable" food checks, which can be used to buy quality food (sustainability, short circuit, just remuneration for producers). The proposal is on the table of the government in France. Is the measure envisaged in Belgium? Finally, do you think that such a plan can be fully effective if it does not fit into a more global perspective by including, with the Regions, a reflection on our food system and its shortcomings, on the role of agro-industry and intermediaries? This question is obviously very broad and I suspect that you will not be able to answer it in detail. However, I would be interested to hear from you about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u34	Madam President, Mrs Sneppe, I know the study by John Crombez and his colleagues and I have read them very thoroughly. I won't repeat what's in that study. With rankings one should always be a bit careful and certainly with causal links between rankings. Apart from the precise interpretation of rankings and all kinds of causal links, however, it is clear that we must not be complacent with regard to the ranking of our country in Europe and internationally in terms of citizens' health. The federal government agreement has therefore also set a fairly ambitious objective. As far as health is concerned, we want to return to the top 10 of the European Union. We must, of course, recognise immediately that the health system as such, in particular health care, as part of that system, is only partly responsible for health status. The World Health Organisation says in a scientific estimate that the share of the health care system in the state of health, when we make an international comparison, is up to 15%. It is therefore also about housing, employment, sport and so on. It is therefore important that there is a consensus on a minimum set of health objectives, with all public authorities and all sectors assuming their responsibilities. My administration is currently drafting a proposal on health objectives that we ideally want all public authorities and sectors to use. In this context, we have asked the World Health Organisation, Europe Department, for a so-called public health review. Finally, the RIZIV has already selected seven projects in the context of health care objectives. After all, we think that we should work more and more from that perspective. Power supply is effectively one of the essential components. The draft text of the Federal Food and Health Plan 2021-2030, prepared by my administration, is now being reviewed by the staff of my policy cell. We are considering several new actions to influence our eating habits in a useful way, taking into account many dimensions, such as the marketing of food, the continuation of efforts to reformulate food products, the introduction of tax incentives, the sustainability of our eating habits and so on. Once the text has been validated by my staff and myself, I will of course not fail to communicate about it. The operational plan describing the timing of the actions foreseen in the Federal Nutrition-Health Plan will be presented to the various stakeholders (federal entities, civil society actors and relevant economic operators). The previous period has not been the subject of an external evaluation but, with Sciensano, we have developed a monitoring of the composition of prepackaged foods sold on the Belgian market as part of the Nutritrack project since 2018. This monitoring will allow us to monitor the evolution of the composition of the products and to check whether any reformatting efforts have been made by the manufacturers in accordance with their commitments under the Balance Convention dating back to 2016, with FEVIA and COMEOS. The Federal Nutrition-Health Plan 2021-2030 plans to discuss with the sectors the figures that emerge from the Nutritrack monitoring and whether further efforts should be considered to improve nutritional composition. The regulatory track is not ruled out, if necessary. One of the priorities is child marketing. We are currently looking at whether the Nutriscore logo can be used as a nutritional profiling tool to prohibit advertising for products that are too fat, too sweet or too salty at the time of the hearing mainly concerned by a children's audience. The 2021-2030 Plan is comprehensive and aims to address as many partners as possible and to consider the issue as systemic as possible. I will certainly return to you as soon as the latter is finalized.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Studies can always prove counterproductive cases. Causal connections are indeed often difficult to demonstrate. However, I did not invent it myself; I refer to the study in which the causal link is more or less referred to. You say that the share of health care is only 15%. Of course, several facets cause health to deteriorate. I assume that you will allow me to ask questions about public health in the Committee on Health. Specifically, in the period of the corona crisis there was very little attention to a healthy lifestyle. In your answer, you are somewhat limited to food, but a healthy lifestyle means more than food. People are illiterate or little literate in the field of health. I think that there is a task there for the government, namely sensitisation, making it clear to people that there is also a healthy alternative for every unhealthy thing. I would like to refer to Professor Lieven Annemans, who has a lot of study material on this subject. People need to be convinced that healthy habits are better than unhealthy ones. It must be made clear to them that there are healthy alternatives and what they can mean for their lives, what qualities people can gain. If people are hungry, you can give them a fish and they have a day to eat. However, you can also teach people how to fish, then they have food for the rest of their lives. The corona crisis was actually an opportunity, because people were open to such messages, but unfortunately you missed that boat.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u36	Minister, thank you very much for your answer. There are enough of us in this Parliament to come back to you to get news of this plan. You have confirmed that diet is a fundamental dimension of our health. However, we know that our citizens are not sufficiently healthy. Thank you, therefore, for following this file. Then you told us that the project was moving forward and that you were going to introduce it to the stakeholders. It's not clear to me yet, but I can imagine you don't know each other's agendas. Having said that, we hope that your plan will be approved before the end of the year, because we are lagging behind. I am not sure I heard if any additional resources had been committed for your services. As long as the goals remain ambitious, we will see. With regard to external evaluation, I heard that Sciensano was working on food quality monitoring. That sounds really interesting to me. We therefore await the conclusions of this audit, although I fear - probably I am too pessimistic - that it indicates a low quality of food. You also inform us that the regulatory tool is certainly still relevant. For my part, I encourage you to consider tax instruments from the outset. Indeed, it is necessary to provide opportunities for people to form the best choices for themselves. In addition, it is important to work actively on advertising. There is nothing to do: we remain influenced by what we see and hear. Courage, therefore! As parliamentarians, we are very interested in a future presentation of this strategy as soon as it is ready. We have already had the chance to discuss other programmes once they have been developed. Thank you, anyway, for your work!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u37	Minister, in Het Nieuwsblad of 13 April we read the poignant testimony of a parent couple with two children suffering from TANGO2, a degenerative disorder. It is again a poignant case of a rare disease, with almost priceless medicines. Those drugs are vital for both boys, but unfortunately they are not reimbursed. We are talking about EUR 8,400 for 180 pills, of which the brothers have to take two daily. Actually, they need four a day, but the parents can't afford that. Why is this vital medicine not being reimbursed? Will you seek advice from the CTG on this, or have you already done so? Where is the development of the Central Register for Rare Diseases? Is there a reference centre for this condition in Belgium? How many patients with this condition are there in Belgium? Are they helped by the Special Solidarity Fund?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u38	Mrs Sneppe, we are not sure that the vitality of this therapy is scientifically established. I guard against giving false hope to patients and their families, who are sometimes desperate for healing therapy. According to available international publications of scientific patient and other associations, there is no proven and useful therapy for patients with TANGO2 syndrome. The existing therapy is supportive and she will be reimbursed. It is a question of 'paying antiepileptics, antiarrhythmics and thyroid hormones'. However, there is no authorised medicine at the European Medicines Agency specifically to address this syndrome. I will ask the FAGG to inform me when a manufacturer applies for the registration process or a compassionate use program. You asked about the registration. The register is a joint project of several federal administrations, including Sciensano. That's what we're discussing right now. It is said that there is currently too low participation in the Central Register for Rare Diseases or CRRD at the genetic centers and in the treating clinics. Participation in the register is currently limited to genetic centres. Currently, only seven of the eight recognized genetic centres in Belgium register. In many cases participation is low within the genetic centres themselves, because of technical problems, lack of time, a part of the geneticists who do not participate and so on. Usually there is only registration of patients with a definitive diagnosis, no registration of patients with a provisional diagnosis and therefore no information about the diagnostic delay. We have therefore prepared an action sheet. We are working, among other things, on the following aspects: solving technical problems in the registry, both health data software and local ICT systems, the development of automatic extraction from the electronic patient file to reduce the registration burden and the expansion of the participating network with treating clinics, on top of the genetic centers, such as registrations from the rare diseases functions, for which a pilot project is already running with UCL Saint-Luc for about 20,000 patients, started in collaboration with UZ Brussels. We are working on communication and cooperation between the stakeholders and with the clients. We give trainings to clinics of the rare disease function around using ORPHAcodes as disease coding to increase the visibility of patients with a rare disease. There is no recognized Belgian centre for the diagnosis or treatment of patients with TANGO2 syndrome. The condition was only well described in 2016, before this disease was named with a different font. Research into natural evolution has begun to get to know this disease better. Since the discovery of the disease, a hundred families worldwide have been diagnosed. The number of Belgian patients is unknown. It is of prime importance that patients in Belgium address the recognized centres for metabolic genetic disorders. We have no further information on the exact number of patients in Belgium. So far, there is only one patient with this condition, for which compensation has been requested from the Special Solidarity Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your enlightening answers, but of course they remain poignant. It is clear that there is some movement, but there is still a great deal to be done with regard to orphan diseases and the medicines intended for them. It will only be your child and as a parent one stands defenseless. It is already bad that people are confronted with such a disease, with few specialised care providers in it, but the medicines that could possibly help are also very expensive, which also has an impact. I hope that the pharmaceutical pact will do something about this and that people will be aware of this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u40	A study carried out by the Intermutualist Agency, which includes all sickness funds, and the ULB Research Centre for Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Clinical Research shows that more and more medicines are prescribed for pregnant women. The study describes trends in prescribed and delivered medicines during pregnancy. One drew up a top twenty of the most commonly delivered drugs and the six most commonly delivered non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Vooorts studied the evolution during three periods, from 2003 to 2005, from 2009 to 2011 and from 2015 to 2017. Based on information from the Permanent Sample database, researchers determined the prevalence of the supply of potentially dangerous medicinal products. This showed that especially progesterone and antibiotics are seriously in the elevator. Minister, did you know about the study and the figures? What is the reason why more medicines are prescribed to pregnant women and so more are used? Is that really necessary? Do you have any figures or will you have them examined? How are you going to deal with this situation and how are you going to deal with it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u41	The study covering a period of two decades describes the evolution in drugs delivered to Belgian pregnant women. The figures are, in part, disturbing, as you say, but also partly optimistic, as the authors of the study point out. In recent decades, for example, women have been more and better vaccinated with vaccines that a pregnant woman needs. The cause of the increasing use of progesterone and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs is unknown, according to researchers. So it is certainly useful to look at that more closely. Whether the prescription is useful or useless does not appear in the study. I didn't mean to. The controls in individual pregnant women in Belgium do not appear appropriate. What is important is a general awareness of the problem. I will therefore address both the FAGG and the Public Health Office. The FAGG had an awareness campaign in 2017 for cautious drug use in pregnant women. I note that the Belgian Association of Midwifes actively uses the campaign material of the FAGG. It is desirable to review the impact of the campaign. Precise information will help to develop better campaigns to make pregnant women aware of the potential risks of drug use during pregnancy. This also applies to women who are breast-feeding. In addition, I will provide the FOD with the report in question and request a response. A wide range of awareness-raising activities can take place in various areas, such as the Belgian professional associations of obstetricians and midwifes. As has been said, we have a good awareness campaign around here in our country, but it may become even more intense. The stigmatisation of pregnant women must at least be avoided. A relationship of trust is needed between the healthcare provider, who raises the issue, and the person in question. My colleagues in the communities and regions also have useful material on the subject, both for the caregivers and for pregnant women.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u42	Pregnant is not a disease. In most cases everything goes well and it is a beautiful period. Sometimes it may not be as rosy and then there is obviously a need for medication or a treatment. I am pleased that you want to carry out a wide-ranging awareness campaign for doctors, midwifes and gynecologists. I don't think you should forget the pregnant woman herself. It is often at the request of the pregnant woman that the doctors prescribe something, for example, to reassure her. A broad awareness-raising campaign is therefore certainly good, but it certainly involves pregnant women.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u43	Minister, the Vlaams & Neutraal Ziekenfonds annually examines the differences in expenditure and income between Flanders and Wallonia on the basis of data from the Landsbond of the Neutraal Ziekenfondsen. The latest data show that the Flemish is still the largest payer of social security in Belgium. The difference in social security contributions between North and South is €1,728. In other words, a Fleming pays an average of 23.6 % more contributions than a French-speaking countryman. The differences are also significant on the consumption side. The difference between the average sickness rate for a Flemish person (EUR 2.378) and a Waal (EUR 2.472) is still EUR 94. In Wallonia, 3,9% more was spent per capita on health care in 2021. As far as the increased subsidy is concerned, the figures show that in Brussels almost one in three needs a preferential arrangement or an increased concession. In Wallonia, 21% of the population are entitled to an increased level of insurance. That is 37 % more than in Flanders, which 15.3% is entitled to. Finally, the difference in the number of benefit days between Flanders and Wallonia was four days ten years ago. This has now risen to five and a half days, an increase of almost 20%. Are you aware of these disastrous figures? What will you do to eliminate that difference and not milk the hardworking Fleming further? Will you urge the Ministers responsible for Institutional Reform to complete the communitarisation of sickness and invalidity insurance?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u44	Mrs Sneppe, the analyses on regional differences in healthcare expenditure published by the Flemish and Neutral Health Insurance Fund concern only data from the members of the Landsbond of the Neutral Health Insurance Funds. They represent less than 5% of insured persons. The RIZIV has repeatedly pointed out that the profile of insured persons cannot be seen as representative of the Belgian population. The differences in demographics, socio-economic structure and geographical distribution are too large. So we must not generalize the figures and should not therefore decide that the Waal spends an average of 3.9 % more than the Fleming. In 2011, the RIZIV analysed the figures of the VNZ in more depth. The analysis showed that the difference in average expenditure per insured person between Flanders and Wallonia in 2011 was only 15% of the difference calculated by the UNZ, which is less than one sixth. For the details of the calculation, I can refer you to the analysis given in connection with Parliament's question No. 509 by Mrs Rita De Bont, asked in 2012, and Question No 518 by Ms Reinilde Van Moer, dated 4 May 2015. The RIZIV could not make this analysis for the year 2021 within the time limit for an answer to an oral question. I can tell you that the difference between Wallonia and Flanders was 1.4 % in 2019. This difference remained stable between 2015 and 2019. If you'd like, I can give you a table. In 2017, the VNZ saw a difference of 4.66% between Flanders and Wallonia. But it seems very clear to me that this population was very little representative. As far as increased compensation is concerned, the UNZ gives the figure of the entire population, and the percentages you quoted are correct. Despite the large number of people entitled to the increased rate, indicating their vulnerability, Brussels is at the very bottom of health spending. It is not because many people get increased benefits, that those people, or those regions, have an increased expenditure. Of course, vulnerable people often have poor health, but that is a different debate from what you are talking about here today. With regard to your second and third questions, here too, the figures to which you referred come from a press article by the UNZ which gives only a partial picture of the general trends. It is possible to divide the figures: the overall number of days of benefit per period and the incapacity for work according to risk and region. I can give you those figures, if you wish, but it shows that in 2020 a beneficiary in the Walloon Region was disabled during the period of primary incapacity, i.e. the first year, on average 70.12 days per period, while in Flanders this number was 63,52 days. This gives a difference of 6.6 days per period. There are undoubtedly a number of objective factors to explain this. For example, the proportion of workers is relatively high in the regions concerned, the regions with an industrial past such as Hainaut and Liège. Socio-economic differences affecting people's health are a less easy-to-object factor that can influence the duration of disability, training, income and activity on the labour market. Although this is actually a different debate, I can say that the large number of recognized disabled persons must be a very important point of attention in our policy. I refer to the Back To Work Coordinators and the Back To Work Paths. If you wish, I can provide two tables for the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u45	Mr Minister, those tables do seem to me to be interesting. I'm surprised you're derogatory about that study. Indeed, 5% is not much, but it is a part of the population. I cannot imagine that the members of the neutral health insurance funds would be so different from those of the Socialist Mutuality or any other mutuality. I think this reflects the average of society. You minimize those money flows. It has been known for years that the flows of money in social security and health care are a one-way street from the north to the south of the country. Whether they're big or very big, I don't care, but they are. This shows once again that not all Belgians are equal, since one Belgian has to pay more than the other. The debate on medical quotas is only just over. A colleague said that we were playing a Community game. That is true, because everything in this country is a Community matter. It doesn't, I think, affect the seriousness of the case very much. Once again, I would like to call on your colleagues in institutional matters to work towards those homogeneous sets of competences. During the period of invalidity, the number of days per period is 275.94 respectively in the Walloon Region and 271.53 days in the Flemish Region. That's a difference of 4.41 days.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u46	Minister, not so long ago it would have been decided to set up a Strategic Scientific Committee which would be part of the RMG, by the way, together with the RAG. The members of the GEMS would have been asked to be part of this. Is it true that this new committee is made up of the same members as the GEMS? Will other Members also be asked to participate? How does the selection of members take place? What's the SSC's job? Until when will it be active? Is the SSC a specific part of the new pandemic plan? When can we expect the new pandemic plan? In the meantime, were the tasks of the Coronac Commissioner fully transferred to the Public Health Office? Who is responsible within the FOD for the succession of pandemics? What other health risks do you think are still present? In what way are we working on a more general preparation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u47	Mrs Gijbels, the Scientific Advisory Group will indeed retain the composition and presidency of the GEMS. This will ensure continuity of the scientific policy advice and also strengthen the tasks of the RMG in its new role. I believe that the GEMS composition has been seen as balanced and we want to keep it that way. This advisory group will indeed provide scientific advice on the pandemic management strategy within the RMG and in further close cooperation with the RAG, as part of the follow-up to the current covid health crisis and in preparation for a next pandemic. The pandemic plan is an operational interfederal plan to combat an epidemic or a pandemic, designed as a roadmap for concrete actions such as vaccinations, distribution of personal protective equipment and care planning, in the event of an epidemic in Belgium. The pandemic plan was drawn up in 2006, entered into force in 2009 and has not been updated since. The FPS Public Health will update the pandemic plan in the future and link it to the generic preparation plan. The duties of the coronac commission were transferred to the competent administrations, including the FPS Public Health and the RIZIV. Within the FPS Public Health, the Crisis Management Service is responsible for following up pandemics. The current corona pandemic is followed by the COOVID-19 Focal Point. The Crisis Management Service is prepared for a wide range of health crises, including heat and ozone-related problems and CBRNe threats. In the field of preparation, the IKW Health Emergencies Preparedness will start soon and a further analysis of how to strengthen epidemic intelligence in the context of future pandemic preparation will be carried out in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u48	Thank you, Minister. You indicate that it will be the same composition as the GEMS. However, it is important that the pandemic can also be looked at with sufficient distance and how it has been dealt with. I believe that a sharp analysis is essential if we are to learn from it and improve it for the future. There may be no blind spots. If we have always been strongly involved in the control of the pandemic and have made every effort, then I do not think that it is the most appropriate people to make a sharp analysis and to look objectively at what has happened. I really believe that several experts were emotionally involved in this and that they felt the whole responsibility strongly. I would like to point out the potential danger and the potential opportunities that we are losing if we do not now draw all the lessons that can be drawn from it. It is also a question of respect for the people. Why not organise a broad scientific conference where all actors are heard and a broad debate can be organised between experts closely involved in managing the crisis and other experts? This should then cover many areas of society, not just health care. That must really be the starting point for me. We shouldn't always want to work with the same people. Not that they are not experts in this matter, but precisely because of their involvement in the pandemic, they do not always seem to me to be the most appropriate people to look with a clear eye at everything that has happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u49	Mr Minister, colleagues have already asked about the correlation between a healthy lifestyle, optimal health, underlying diseases and covid. A recent study has shown that patients with diabetes mellitus have an increased risk of kidney damage following covid medication administration and also following vaccines. As a result, it was argued for appropriate guidance and follow-up of patients with diabetes who have recovered from covid, as appropriate protocols are needed for these patients. What importance do you attach to the decisions taken by this investigation, Mr President? Have studies also been carried out in our country to show that there is an incidence B, as the study says? What conclusions have been drawn in our country? Do you consider applying an adapted protocol based on the results of those studies or are additional follow-up provided for diabetic patients who have recovered from covid?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u50	Mrs Depoter, an element in your question surprised me a little, namely that patients with diabetes mellitus are at an increased risk of kidney damage after the administration of a vaccine. That is not right, I think, for which we have no scientific evidence. However, there are problems with remdesivir. The increased risk of acute kidney damage with remdesivir is known and is also confirmed in a new publication, Acute kidney injury and drugs prescribed for COVID-19 in diabetic patients, a publication of 2022. Due to this increased risk, the BCFI and the Sciensano Directive warn against the use of brake desivir in the event of severe renal impairment. The same publication confirms that the risk of acute kidney damage is also increased in COVID-19 patients with diabetes. From that study, it is unclear whether the risk is higher than in all COVID-19 patients receiving remdesivir. For tocilizumab, authors acknowledge that an increased risk of kidney damage should first be further confirmed in covid patients with diabetes. As mentioned by the authors, the occurrence of kidney damage in covid patients with diabetes is multifactorial, which makes it more difficult to identify a specific medicine as a cause. In reply to your second question, I can state that, as far as we know, no such data have been reported for Belgium. This publication will certainly increase the attention paid to possible kidney damage in diabetic patients treated with remdesivir or tocilizumab. In reply to your third question, I must point out that there are no new elements in the new publication to substantially amend the Sciensano Directive, which already warns of kidney problems with brake desivir. Finally, I would like to point out that patients with kidney damage are given the best medical care regardless of the health problem and regardless of the treatment they receive.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u51	Mr Minister, the confusion is obviously due to the fact that patients who have been vaccinated, have diabetes and have had COVID-19 can also show kidney damage. Whether they have been vaccinated or not, it doesn't matter. You're pointing out that confusion. It is certainly a concern that needs to be taken into account. It therefore reassures me that the patients concerned will be closely monitored. It should also be clearly communicated to all physicians, general practitioners and specialists that patients who are diabetic and have experienced COVID-19, regardless of whether they have been treated with remdesivir or with tocilizumab, should be monitored anyway. I don't have to explain to you that kidney damage is very serious. We must therefore follow that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u52	Minister, Belga reported on 21 April 2022 that the government had to destroy EUR 98.5 million of corona material because the maturity had been reached or the quality was no longer satisfactory. These are mainly mouth masks, serological tests, PCR tests and lab tubes. In addition, the Department of Defense requests that the controversial Avrox masks be destroyed. Is this material part of the strategic stock? Will this material be replaced? How will you prevent this from happening again? Can you explain why this material was not used before the expiry date was exceeded? Was the material the quality of which no longer meets in that condition purchased or was the quality reduced by storage? So what is the reason for the reduction in quality? The destruction costs EUR 1.3 million, but what is the value of the materials to be destroyed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u53	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Prévot's 55027226C lapses, he is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u54	Madam President, I shall begin with Mrs Sneppe's questions and then with Mrs Fonck's questions, to the extent that I would not have dealt with them. My answers are about the strategic stock of personal protective equipment, medical devices, medicines and in vitro diagnostic medical devices. With regard to questions about the mouth masks purchased by the Defense Department, I refer to the Secretary of Defense. The material that is destroyed because of its poor quality is not counted as part of the strategic stock in what we communicate about it. Material that is destroyed after the expiry date has been reached is part of the strategic stock in our statistics until the day of decay. The content of the strategic stock is evaluated, by type, material as well as quantity, in order to be better tailored to the needs. For some materials this means keeping a lower stock than before, which means that not all materials have to be bought again. Where necessary, the material from the strategic stock will be replenished so that sufficient stock is provided in the event of scarcity. We are working on a rotating stock, in collaboration with the hospitals, to minimise the risk of decay in the future. In addition, the market has also evolved. The shelf life of surgical mouth masks can be lifted from 2 to 4 years or even 5 years. This will make the stock both financially and in terms of sustainability more efficient. With regard to in vitro diagnostic medical devices, no replacement is foreseen for serological tests and sampling kits, e.g. tube swabs. With regard to consumables and reagents of PCR tests, new quantities will only be purchased if there is demand and there is insufficient stock. Then I come to Mrs Sneppe's third question and Mrs Fonck's first question. I'm going to answer this in reasonable detail. The material that was not consumed can be divided into the following categories. Let me first say something about the FFP2 masks, the KN95 masks, the surgical mouth masks and insulation coats. It is therefore a question of good quality goods which could not be consumed in time. Since the end of 2020, actions have been taken to enable these goods to be distributed in good time to hospitals, test centres, NGOs, federal administrations and the Red Cross. They could also be used for international donations. However, the stock is so large that the existing demand from the said organisations is not sufficiently large to be able to consume the full number. Then there are also the rejected goods: surgical masks and FFP2 masks which after checking were found to be of poor quality in a laboratory and which were given as test result 'ATP not okay' or 'ATP tape all'. These masks must not be legally distributed. There are also second-class goods: FFP2 masks that after checking were given as test result 'ATP tape no' and can therefore only be distributed if there are no fully approved masks. This situation does not arise now, which means that these masks cannot be used before the expiry date. Finally, there is also a fourth sub-group: goods that are the subject of complaints such as insulation jackets in which complaints were received from different hospitals about their poor quality. So these are no longer distributed. These are the four categories relating to the FFP2, KN95, surgical mouth masks and the insulation coats. Secondly, there are also the drugs. The expired drugs were purchased during the first wave of the covid-19 crisis, in the second quarter of 2020. They had only a limited shelf-life. The possibility of assessing the stability data to consider extending the period of validity of the stock was raised by the AFMPS, which is of the opinion that this is not appropriate and that, on the basis of legislation, this would in principle be possible only in specific cases. You also had questions about the in vitro diagnostic medicine. As soon as the national testing platform was established with the certainty that PCR tests would be guaranteed, the serological tests purchased by the FAGG at the start of the COVID-19 crisis to meet the increasing demand for tests, at that time from a scientific point of view, lost much of their relevance. PCR tests make it possible to diagnose potentially infected individuals much earlier. Serological tests later confirm that the patient has been exposed to the virus. That is why only part of the stock has been used up and the other part unfortunately has now expired. The creation of the federal testing platform in the third quarter of 2020 resulted in the use of the sampling kits, e.g. the swabs tubes purchased at the start of the COOVID-19 crisis, only for a very short period, right up to the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2020. That is why only part of the stock has been consumed and the other part has expired. Most of the sampling kits initially purchased were produced and purchased in Asia. They were replaced by tubes produced in Europe, with a view to improving quality and shorter delivery times, thus improving the speed and effectiveness of PCR tests. A lower consumption of the material from the federal testing platform than expected is the reason why part of the stock has now expired. So far some elements of the answer to the question about the state of the material that has not been consumed. The material of which the quality is insufficient was purchased in this condition. These are goods purchased in the second quarter of 2020, during the first wave of the covid crisis and at the peak of global scarcity. Then we are not talking about a reduction in quality. No poor quality material was purchased from the in vitro diagnostic medical devices. All IVD purchased from the beginning of the crisis was of the best quality available at the time of purchase. However, the overall quality and efficiency of the IVD has increased over time as none of the suppliers predicted the pandemic crisis. No goods were destroyed yet. The public service contract will be published shortly. The estimate for destruction is EUR 1.3 million. I come to Mrs Fonck's questions. With regard to the platform, I have already answered Mrs Depoorter's question on antidotes. I explained that the platform would meet for the first time formally on 25 May and that an agenda was established. I'm not going to repeat what I said. Second, a rotating stock of personal protection equipment is being developed in cooperation with hospitals in order to minimize the risk of future degradation. Various options are available for drugs whose expiry date is approaching. Either the AFMPS evaluates the possibility of extending the validity period, if stability data are available, where appropriate. Either hospitals are informed of strategic stock drugs that are approaching their expiry date (within six months), so that hospitals can draw on this stock, to the extent they need it. Either the SPF gives priority to medicines for international donations, in response to requests for assistance submitted via the Union Civil Protection Mechanism (UCPM). For personal protective equipment, stock management in the coming years is still under study and will be the subject of consultation with hospitals. However, it is imperative to take into account certain legal constraints that prevent the supply of strategic stock from disrupting the market. In addition, new legal provisions may be envisaged to consolidate the creation and management of the strategic stock and to allow, or even force, the use by the circuit, in order to limit maximum lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer. When we read reports of the destruction of the stock, an alarm bell goes off. That is why, of course, these questions have been tabled. It may happen that there's material left that wasn't used, but it's about a lot of material here. During the crisis, attempts were made not to use too many serological tests, while now it appears that there are quite a few left because they were not used. That's very strange to hear. There is a rotating stock of the hospitals, but also a static strategic stock, from which comes mainly the destruction. I will read your answer again and see if I have any further questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u56	Minister, thank you for your answer. We really have to make the distinction. On the one hand, there are equipment, devices, serological tests, etc. which were not of good quality and which have now been destroyed. Of course, this is the question of how the orders were managed. However, this is understandable when orders came from the moment the market was under extreme stress with disruptions of availability all over the place. The context was very difficult at that time, but this justification will not be valid for the future. On the other hand, there are equipment, devices and others that were not used in a timely manner. This is totally unacceptable, especially since it is not as if we are discovering the situation today. The past has shown that a number of lessons have to be learned, especially in intelligent, correct and efficient management with this famous dynamic stock. This has been announced three years ago. We were already talking about it under the previous government. I take note that the first meeting will take place on 25 May 2022. Three years, that's a lot! The question arises as to whether the important mistakes of the past have been sufficiently taken into account. Shouldn't we give a hell of an accelerator for this dynamic stock? On the other hand, I am a little surprised to hear you talk about medicines ordered during the first period of crisis, with a limited shelf life, which had to be destroyed following information from AFMPS. I wonder what medication you're talking about. Could you tell me?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u57	I can't answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u58	Can I ask you to check with your office because I would really like to know what medicines it is?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u59	I don't have the information.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u60	No problem. I suggest that you send me the answer so that you do not have to put a new question on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u61	You're vais me renseigner.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u62	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u63	Mr President, I would like to refer to the question that has been put to me some time ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u64	Mrs Depoorter, the absolute numbers of omikron XE are still very limited in our country. The first cases did indeed date from the week of 28 February. So far, the number is limited to 29. In the last month, no more than three cases per week have been reported. That even seems to indicate a decreasing trend compared to the end of March, because then it was five or six per week. It may be concluded that omikron XE does not seem to have a huge growth advantage over the current dominant omicron BA2 or the variants we are seeing in the meantime. You asked if there were any known cases. Yeah, 29 cases have been reported. They were detected by whole genome sequencing. The first sample was taken on 4 March. I can give you the table per week. You see the numbers rise a little and then decrease again. You may have that table, but I won't read it to you. You also asked about the symptoms. So far there are no specific symptoms to link to omikron XE. We see similar symptoms as with the known SARS-CoV-2 infections. You asked me what my reaction was to what my German colleague said. Well, any mutation can change the properties of this annoying virus and we certainly need to stay alert, but there are currently no concrete indications of a changed clinical impact with omikron XE.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u65	Thank you, Minister. I believe that alertness is indeed the message. Well-monitored, track the data, and hopefully we'll be able to control the next variants.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u66	Minister, caregivers, patients and patients' associations are concerned about the lack of care. The Flemish Council for Welfare, Public Health and Family has now issued an opinion on how to deal quickly and in a structured manner with delayed care. Today, hospitals still have to close beds because of lack of staff. For example, the VRWVG calls for a thorough inter-federal consultation and provides ten short-term recommendations. What importance do you attach to these ten policy recommendations? Do you see any possibility of applying them in the short term? How will you deal with the lack of care? To what extent does your approach correspond to the recommendations made? What are the concrete plans? What is the timeline you want to use? How do you want to adjust and evaluate any plans you may have?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u67	Mrs Depoorter, the opinion of the Flemish Council for Welfare, Public Health and Family is absolutely interesting, but is rather explicitly focused on the Flemish government. The advice is inspiring. I will give you five main lines of action on the challenges facing me in terms of the lack of care. What I say about this is in line with the philosophy of the Flemish Council. Mrs Depoorter, what are the five pillars? I'm reasoning in the short and longer term. These are points which cannot be realized immediately or which do not necessarily have an immediate effect, but which are nevertheless important to be activated now. The first pillar is the monitoring of health data in real time. It is clear that we need an up-to-date, detailed overview of the accumulated lack of care. In addition to the policy reports of Sciensano, the Federal Knowledge Centre for Health Care and the Cancer Register Foundation, the Audit Hospitals Unit regularly makes estimates of hospital care retardation due to the COVID-19 crisis. That's actually been happening since the beginning of the pandemic. Care delay refers to the number of medical benefits which were not carried out compared to the years before COVID-19. Not all lost benefits in kind must necessarily be overtaken. Maybe I should underline that point. There is clearly a decrease in benefits in kind for fractures, which were less common due to reduced mobility during the corona crisis, but which should not be overtaken, all the more so because they are very acute events. It can actually be said that part of the benefits in kind, which may happen too often in Belgium where there has actually been a phenomenon of overconsumption in the past, should not necessarily be caught up. Finally, there is also an over-death rate due to COOVID-19, which unfortunately makes some of the care disappear. On the other hand, there are new care needs, such as the treatment of lung covid, the longer care duration due to the very large scale operation of isolation procedures and possible additional complications due to longer waiting times. Of course, that's part of the game. I can, for example, refer you to the report on the estimation of unexecuted care in hospitals during the first, second and third wave. You will find this on the website of the Audit Hospitals Unit. In order to give doctors and policy makers an insight into the extent to which a catch-up movement is needed, the delay curves up to the level of each analysed delivery are reflected in the report. In addition, I am still talking about the data collection "COVID-19" the capacity of beds for intensive care and other acute beds taken by COVID-19 is analysed after each wave and returned to the Hospital Transport & Surge Capacity Committee. Since the fourth wave, closed beds, i.e. beds which are not actually available due to staff loss, have been included. I see 4 action points for the future, namely the real-time receipt of the specific occupancy dates of the acute hospital beds, the availability of real-time data from the operational beds, i.e. a correction for absent staff, as well as criteria for reporting the beds, the provision of uniform criteria for inclusion and dismissal in specific services, such as intensive care, taking into account the patient's Apache score and greatly accelerated availability of the ICD-10 and other data. That is the first pillar, and that is the dates. The second pillar is rather obvious, but at the same time it is not easy to tackle the overload of nurses. This means that we must make the profession sufficiently attractive and ensure that the staff do not fail. This has to do with, among other things, terms of employment and remuneration, issues that live in the public debate. I still have EUR 100 million available for the federal sectors, which are essentially the hospitals that are still under discussion. These 100 million could, for example, be used for a limited premium, measures relating to irregular performance and possibly a qualitative strengthening of personnel policy. The social partners are completing the proposals on this issue at the moment. I hope to have it in the near future. So we are talking about working conditions and wages. In addition, this may be somewhat underestimated - I think we can also use technology to improve the lives of nurses at work. I am thinking, among other things, of more efficient electronic patient records, although we are already working on this with more BFM, which is important in itself, the generalisation of mobile devices for carrying out the so-called early warning score system, which will enable us to intensify nurse surveillance in the room, without additional time investment, more barcode scanning instead of manual input, generalisation of, for example, mobile blatter scans, so that there is no time for unnecessary probes and so that the risk of infection in the patient is reduced, and the accelerated introduction of SNOMED CT to automatically encode ICD. This is, in fact, all about technological development and digitisation, but also about supporting, facilitating and improving the work of staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u68	We must also pay attention to the most heavily burdened services in order to give them more perspective. We need to find out how we can intervene through job discharge and function differentiation on the most burdened services. As far as the doctors are concerned, we should not only consider the organisation of the funding of the hospital nomenclature and the support and that is more so earlier we were talking about the general practitioners - but we can also help technological developments here. Telemedicine, teleconsultations and teleconsultations to reduce travel time have already been introduced and are useful for accelerating delays in consultations and follow-up consultations and for accelerating delays in multidisciplinary patient consultation. Tele advice by specialists to assist the general practitioner, so that they do not both have to move to the patient, can also be very useful. This should ensure that oncological diagnosis and follow-up can be accelerated. Telemonitoring in the context of investigations has been taking place in other countries for a long time, such as a polysomnography, a 24-hour EEC or telemonitoring to replace observation recordings, which is already happening in the context of COVID-19, or an observation for imminent premature birth. All these technological developments can improve the doctor's life. Then there is the specific situation of intensiveists, emergency doctors, pneumologists, geriatrics, medical assistants. There are already actions for this. You will not hear me say that we have already achieved our final goal, but I would like to point out that thanks, among other things, to the efforts made by medical assistants in training, we are already able to control some of the pressure. I would also like to draw attention to the funding of teleconsultations for systematic standard monitoring of, for example, heart failure or lung failure by expert nurses to reduce the number of nursing days, to reduce avoidable re-raptures, and to indirectly reduce the burden on doctors. I believe that we must manage the benefits in kind well through strict indication and priority. That's my fourth pillar. Scientifically substantiated priority criteria at national level are appropriate to assist chief doctors and officers in monitoring a catch-up movement. I think, more generally, that RIZIV should take the opportunity to develop initiatives against overconsumption. There is something going on in the area of appropriate care, in the context of efficiency, in the context of the implementation of the doctor-health fund agreement. These are rationalizations in the nomenclature and, therefore, rationalisations in practice. More generally, there is, of course, the reform of hospital funding. Combating a damaging spiral of pressure on doctors to always perform more, including in terms of technical diagnostic performance due to hospital budgets, must all be seen in that light, as must the cooperation between doctors and hospitals. As a final pillar, I see the patients' good information about what they can expect and the speed with which they can expect things. There is the Health and Science web site, which supports the government. We need to actively promote such instruments to make people aware of, among other things, what health care does for them, what it can do for them, why not everything can be done at the same time and what has medical added value. You will hear it, that may not be the same story as the story of the Flemish council, but I think, quite frankly, that there is a little bit of common inspiration. You asked for a time frame. That really depends on the action points. I didn't say for nothing that I would report things that already happened, things that could happen in the short term and things that are more long-term stories. We had to switch quickly. In the meantime, evaluations have already been carried out. It is not easy to maintain established time frameworks, as the context is constantly changing. Fast switching remains particularly important in my view.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u69	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed answer. Of course, you can apply the recommendations of the Flemish council in your federal data: needs, capacity, research, coordination, care and support, continuity of care, communication - you have talked about it yourself -, investment, harmonisation, capacity of professionals, data, awareness - that is a Flemish competence - and innovation. What I miss in that detailed answer is the concrete story. You are planning a great deal and you are referring to a budget of 100 million, but you are not yet sure what you will do with it. You're talking about the terms of employment. I would like to talk to you for a moment about the flexibility of working conditions. Last week the newspaper also said that a lot of healthcare professionals want to work more than they are allowed to. That is something for Social Affairs, but that is also your competence, and you can work towards greater flexibility for the healthcare professional, so that they can work more effectively in the healthcare sector, if they want to. You have that in your hands, and you can work it out from today to tomorrow. As far as doctors are concerned, it has been promised for years that doctors will be better supported and that the nomenclature will be reviewed, but that has not yet been done. So I hope that you will get to work on this very quickly. You announce a $100 million investment, and that's fine, but what will you do with it? Who will you support with that? Are you going to give us some money, by which we mean a one-off premium, or are you really going to work in a structural way?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u70	That's structural money. That comes back year after year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u71	That's really what one needs. You can take with you the research by Professor Goossens on the organisation of nursing care, to which I referred earlier. For years, my group has been calling for clear communication with the patients about what they can expect, as well as addressing overconsumption, which you are now coming to announce. I am extremely concerned, though. You did not mention cancer diagnostics. That too is deferred care. The number of tumours detected in stage 4 is too high. There is a delay and you need to make a very short-term commitment to this. After all, the fact that cancers were not treated in time will cause excess mortality and will cost us young lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u72	The aryl-carbon hydrogen receptor is one of the many therapeutic targets that are being investigated in cancer research that has developed rapidly in recent years. In several types of cancer, functions of this transcription factor have been described that promote or inhibit tumour development. For the time being, there are only early clinical trials in other countries with at least two inhibitors in patients with different tumour types. The results of these studies will determine their potential in the clinic. In order to support the research and development of medicinal products for human use, both in immunotherapy and other therapies, the FAGG offers the possibility to request national scientific and/or technical advice. This can be done, for example, in view of possible applications for clinical trials. The main objective of the FAGG in providing national advice is to promote and facilitate, as far as possible, the development of new medicines from a regulatory perspective. In addition, the availability of innovative medicinal products for patients is promoted in this way. Scientific advice may also be sought at European level through the EEA. There are currently initiatives at European level, such as the Europe's Beating Cancer Plan and the Mission on Cancer, which are actively followed up at national level by my staff, the Cancer Centre of Sciensano and the cancer domain stakeholders. We closely monitor innovative therapies such as cell therapy and immunotherapy, so that opportunities within European initiatives in these areas, especially at national level, will be maximised.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u73	Minister, it is logical that everything should be monitored and facilitated. Our country is quite highly regarded in clinical trials. Above all, we must keep it that way, and we must ensure that we can provide our patients with new therapies as soon as possible. They should also be able to participate in clinical studies to promote general treatment as soon as possible. In any case, Minister, it is good that the FAGG should follow the advice and that, together with your services, it should try to facilitate all possible innovation as best as possible. However, I would like to return to the discussion we have just had on access to innovation. This access to certain new cancer therapies is too slow and not yet sufficient in our country, and something must be done about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u74	Minister, at first sight this seems to be a special question, but unfortunately certain social media are circulating that pregnant women can use cannabis better than a painkiller. That is, of course, a very difficult statement. When women switch to the use of cannabis, they very often do not know what the consequences may be for the baby in the abdomen and afterwards. The baby may then be more likely to have a higher body weight and a higher blood sugar level. In particular, behavioural disturbances may also be due to the use of THC during pregnancy. This problem is now more known in the United States. Are you aware of this problem in Belgium? It is not the women who use recreational drugs, because that is very well monitored when they are pregnant, it is really about the use of cannabis as a replacement for painkillers. Are there any studies that investigate or investigate this behavior? What are the findings of this? What possible warnings are given or are planned to warn women that this is really not the best idea?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u75	The data of the Belgian federal government can be found essentially in the Health Survey of Sciensano. This shows that the use of cannabis and other psychoactive substances in Belgium increased significantly between 2013 and 2018. By the way, the use of marijuana also increased during the first lockdown compared to the situation before it. However, six months after the start of the first lockdown, these figures returned to a comparable situation. This may mean that pregnant women also use more cannabis. Any use of psychoactive substances by pregnant women entails risks. That is what we must do. This needs to be looked at globally. Alcohol, tobacco and medication are more common than cannabis, but cannabis also needs to be looked at. The same applies to women who are trying to become pregnant or breast-feeding. I assume that if the problem arises in practice, it must of course also be possible to discuss it in confidence between the health care provider and the woman or even the family in question. My colleagues in the Communities and the Regions have useful material in this respect, both for the caregivers and for pregnant women. So I'm sure I can confirm that the problem is important. We are partly at Community level with regard to general preventive policies, but the problem is partly also to be found in health care. So I'm taking your concern with me, but I'm afraid I can't give you much data.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u76	Mr. Secretary, the key is there, by the dates. The Health Survey to which you refer does not distinguish at all between women who are pregnant and women who are not pregnant. She doesn't even always make a distinction between men and women. What's the problem? Pregnant women have a different constellation of fat build-up and cannabis is a fat-plosable substance that settles in the fat cells. What you mentioned is very important. Women who wish to become pregnant should also be closely monitored and considered whether cannabis use can affect the foetus. THC is stored in the fat cells and released at a later date. So that could be a problem in any case. You say that the problem is between the caregiver and the patients. The main problem, however, is that it remains under the radar and that it should be possible to communicate with patients in one way or another, even if the average conversation with the gynecologist indicates that such messages circulating on social media are better ignored.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u77	Minister, last month it became known that 400,000 Novavax vaccines are likely to expire unless their expiry date is adjusted. This means that a large number of ordered vaccines worth 7.6 euros each will be lost. Against the background of the refusal of other vaccine types by part of the population and aid workers due to doubts about the mRNA vaccines, Novavax does offer an outcome. In an earlier discussion on this issue, you said that Novavax is now being offered to patients with doubts, but that you can no longer convince those patients. The reason is, of course, that too many stories have been done and that in some parts of the country there is not optimally sensitised from the start of the vaccination campaign. Minister, what is the state of play regarding the procedure whereby the manufacturer can extend the shelf life of the vaccine, as has been suggested? The expiry date is 31 August 2022. What efforts are being made to be able to administer that vaccine before its expiry date? Are additional efforts being made specifically in Wallonia and Brussels? What about the other vaccines? Is there a stock in the government of the other vaccines? How many of these vaccines are at risk of going down? Since the Novavax vaccines are in danger of falling, will they be donated to the COVAX initiative? One condition is that the expiry date is at least three months later; it will have to be decided soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u78	Mr President, Mrs Depoter, with regard to the question of the stock of vaccines, I suggest that I do not try to answer that now, because I have already replied in a very general way by referring to 35 million vaccines available in response to a previous question. The details can actually be found in the publications of the Task Force. That's how I got to the questions about Novavax. The submission of a dossier to the EEA to extend the expiry date of a medicinal product shall be made at the initiative of the manufacturer. There is therefore no obligation to do so. So far, this manufacturer has not submitted a dossier containing new stability data. As far as I know, there is no announcement that this will happen soon. So that's where we're stuck, if you don't mind me saying so. In January, the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Public Health identified three priority groups for vaccination with this vaccine. The first group concerns people at risk of serious allergic reactions to other vaccines. This concerns a limited number of people who are very allergic to certain substances, in particular PEG. They are already known at the allergy reference centres. Those centers are proactively contacting these people if they think the Nuvaxovid vaccine is an interesting alternative. Then the vaccination happens in that allergy reference center. The second group concerns people who experienced a serious adverse reaction following a dose of one of the vaccines of the vaccination strategy and to whom the doctor recommended discontinuation of the vaccination schedule. Even then, Nuvaxovid can be an interesting alternative. Once the benefit-risk assessment has been made by a doctor, the doctor may prescribe vaccination with this vaccine. People with a prescription can go to a vaccination centre that has these vaccines. 50,000 doses of Nuvaxovid vaccines are reserved for this second group. The third group concerns anyone who wants to be vaccinated with this vaccine instead of another type, which has been scientifically proven to be effective and safe. There is the principle 'first come, first served'. I have already told you that our Länder have not been very successful in this respect. I do not know whether we should criticise them for that either. However, that did not have much resonance. However, I must say that this vaccine is currently not authorised for general use as a booster. In exceptional cases, based on medical considerations and on an individual basis, a physician may recommend the use of Nuvaxovid as a booster dose off-label after the informed consent of the patient has been obtained. Once an EEA authorization has been obtained, our country can and will, of course, also allow general use as a booster. Finally, the possibility of donation is constantly being considered, but I have to say that at the moment the question is extremely limited. A donation is pretty unlikely right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u79	Mr Minister, you mentioned the stock of vaccines, but you did not say how many are at risk of falling. That's actually what interests me. From what I hear from my colleagues, there could be quite a few of them. Also from the other vaccines. As far as Novavax itself is concerned, no initiative has been taken by the manufacturer. Does that mean that you will be left with about 3 million euros of Novavax vaccines? 400,000 times 7.6 euros, that's about 3 million euros. This can therefore be checked with regard to the amounts that have not been used in an optimal way. As far as COVAX is concerned, it is true that the question is limited. The initiative of your colleague in Africa seems to be able to deliver vaccines, but there is no demand. So you have a problem. I warned at the beginning that not only the giving of vaccines, but also the sensitisation and full care regarding the gift of those vaccines should be addressed. That didn't happen. That's a shame. As far as the general management of vaccines is concerned, I would say that you were too late to proceed with vaccination via primary care. There was a 100 % reduction in vaccines if this switch had been made more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u80	Minister, a new agreement was concluded at the Ministerial Council on 22 April between pharmacists and insurance institutions. This is the follow-up to the agreement reached by both parties in 2021. This included modification clauses, hospital pharmacists included, connections were removed, along with several other adaptations. Minister, what was specifically agreed in this agreement? Were there any other interested parties involved? What are the financial consequences for the government? What points of discussion were not included in the agreement? I would also have liked to have heard from you about the agreement to be concluded between the federal government and pharmacists on the nomenclature of covid vaccination by the pharmacist. This has started in Brussels and Wallonia. I would have liked to hear from you whether you have already provided money for my colleagues?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u81	What's all this money about?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u82	About the fees of the vaccineing pharmacist.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u83	Mrs Depoorter, the responsibility for these moneys is now really with the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u84	The medical certificate, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u85	No, no, no, no. In a vaccination campaign, the administration of a vaccine is really something that the Länder should finance. I have been waiting for an agreement on this for a long time, and that seems obvious to me. One cannot constantly say, when convenient, that the federal government should only finance it. We'll pay for the vaccines. So far we have paid 80% of the vaccination campaign. Please, as an N-VA, would you not at last be able to decide for yourself that the states might also pay for vaccination? That's what we're waiting for. I don't want to polemicize about that. The fact that you say here that everything has to be paid by the federal government is very, very strange for one of your political obedience, I think. Very strange and very contradictory also with the basic constellation of our country. I'm going back to the deal. What has been agreed in concrete terms? Actually, this is an update of an older agreement, which dates back to 20 December 1995. This concerns change clauses, the deletion of provisions that are no longer applicable, the integration of hospital pharmacists. The agreement was published on 10 May. You can consult her, but if you wish, I can get her to you as well. You ask how other stakeholders were involved. The agreements were concluded by the members of the committee. These are the insurance institutions on the one hand and the General Pharmaceutical Association, the Association of Cooperative Pharmacies of Belgium and the Belgian Association of Hospital Pharmacies on the other. I seem to recall from previous discussions that you have some doubts about the representativeness of these organisations, but I think they are representative organisations. Financial impact of this Agreement on public authorities. There is no budgetary impact because the agreement was concluded within an agreed budgetary framework. Discuss points that weren't recorded? We are not here as government, Mrs Depoorter. I cannot tell you whether certain proposals have been put on the table that have not been stopped. You should actually ask the people who are on this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u86	Mr. Secretary, what a silly answer. The vaccination in the pharmacy and in the general practitioner's practice is paid by the RIZIV, federal. The doctor who puts the covid vaccine into his own practice will be paid by the RIZIV. The pharmacist who sensitises in his own pharmacy is paid by the RIZIV. You have done so throughout the covid crisis, but now you have no agreement and you are hiding behind the fact that the Länder should do it themselves. Of course they want to do it themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u87	No, they don't want to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u88	When you transfer the whole package to Flanders, we would like to do it ourselves and then we will be responsible, as we have been all along. However, you do not reach an agreement, you enter income into your budget without having an agreement, and then you go on tour of the Community by saying that the Länder have to take care of it themselves. You submitted that bill to the committee and stated that you allowed pharmacists to vaccinate, but you did not provide any resources for it. That's the problem. You will start in Brussels and Wallonia and you will have no fee for the pharmacists who will vaccinate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u89	No, I'll repeat it again. In our country we must act on the basis of responsibility. Vaccination is essentially the responsibility of the Länder. The federal government has financed 80%, hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros. Actually, I didn't have to. That is actually the responsibility of the Länder, but we have done so in solidarity and to make it move forward. There is, however, one point where it is said that the vaccines will be bought at the expense of the federal government, but that it is asked whether it would not be logical for the Länder to start to bear the burden of organising the vaccination campaign. That's a logical question, isn't it? So I think it is only natural that we should ask the question whether, if the RIZIV does the logistics of the invoicing and the regulation is on the point, the financial burden can be distributed fairly. It is extremely contradictory of you, Mrs Depoorter. You mentioned my answer just now, but I find it faint that one of your convictions here constantly says that the milk cow is federal long live milking the federal dairy cow. There will be a point where the Länder will have to accept a minimum of their financial responsibility. It is in the interests of your fellow pharmacists and doctors that a minimum of financial responsibility should be taken into account at that level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u90	Minister, when we talk about a milk cow, I am sure we agree that the Flemish middle class is the milk cow of your vivaldi government, because that's where you get the money and you like to spend it federally. We started this vaccination campaign in a federal phase. You know that. You have drawn it to yourself, but suddenly it is going to take a lot of resources and it is getting a little difficult. I ask you one question, Minister. Who pays for the performance of the flu vaccine at the GP?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u91	That doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u92	Mr. Secretary, who's paying them?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u93	The federal level, but that doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u94	Thank you, that's the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u95	The federal government is the milk cow of the Länder in many areas, where it should not be. I do not want to have the general debate, but, at this point, I would like to ask a logical and humble question. If we continue to pay all these vaccines federally and if we have paid 80% of the campaign so far, would we not start paying a minimum, which is serious, for the organisation of that campaign, out of respect for the responsibilities and in a spirit of correct accountability?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u96	Mr President, Minister, we agree on accountability. Therefore, start by introducing response mechanisms in the preventive policy. In that case Flanders will be able to pay for its own campaigns, because then it will return to the Flemish cashier. Minister, the milk cow of your policy is and remains the middle class of Flanders. You're using quotes here that really don't matter. The federal level pays for the flu vaccination, the performance, the medical certificate. It is also up to you to reach an agreement with the pharmacists and ensure that a fee is provided. I'll give you something else. If it's up to us, we'll really pay it all ourselves. Split this place up and we're moving forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u97	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 5, by Mr De Caluwe and Question No 5, by Mr De Caluwe Mrs De Block's 55027225C is being postponed at their request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u98	Minister, in 2019, your predecessor Minister Maggie De Block announced the creation of a future Federal Council of Pharmacists to deliver opinions on various topics related to this profession. In fact, pharmacists, unlike other healthcare professions, do not yet have a body to relay their thoughts to health authorities. In view of the many missions entrusted to them on a regular basis, this would be a very important tool for these pharmacists who could then use it in order to improve the care provided to patients more and more. During the discussions on your policy note, I had the opportunity to ask you a question on this subject. In order for the Federal Council to be operational, two implementing decrees had yet to be adopted: on the one hand, a royal decree setting out the criteria for the representativeness of associations which may propose candidates as members of that advisory body and, on the other hand, a royal decree which must determine the internal organisation and functioning of the Council. Minister, could you please tell me what the status of these royal orders is? When will the Federal Council of Pharmacists finally be operational?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u99	Mrs Zanchettta, the execution orders you mention are in the final stages. Only one criterion for the representativeness of medical associations remains to be confirmed. As explained last October, the finalisation of these decrees, particularly that of the Royal Decree of Representativeness, was initially delayed because the composition of the Federal Council of Pharmacists also provides for doctors. However, these must also be proposed by associations considered representative under Article 7/1, § 7 of the Coordinated Act on the Exercise of Health Care Professions of 10 May 2015. The work to determine the criteria for the representativeness of physicians is almost complete. This work takes time, as it has been necessary to compare the figures contained in our proposal for criteria with the various associations of doctors, in order to ensure that they correspond to the realities of the field and do not unjustly rule out an association. My administration is currently working to adapt the proposal for a royal decree on the representativeness of pharmacist associations according to the reactions received from the professional associations of doctors. Once this task has been completed, the two royal executive orders required for the launch of the Federal Council of Pharmacists may be sent to the financial inspector. The execution will follow its course.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-17-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic787x.u100	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am delighted to learn that the work is under way and that this will not be delayed.
