ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u1	Colleagues, thank you for joining us. We are in a joint meeting of the Federal Advisory Committee on European Affairs and the Committee on External Relations. That is why I have the co-chairmen of the Committee and Mrs Van Hoof, the chairman of the Committee on External Relations. We wanted to meet to save time. There was the question of the debriefing of the Summit, but also many other external relations issues concerning the issues raised at this European meeting. The idea is for the Prime Minister to make a presentation on the meeting, a debriefing of this informal European Council on 30 and 31 May 2022, and that, in the meantime, you can each introduce the questions that you would not have received in the course of this presentation, in order to try to be effective and add value to our work. Can we function like this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u2	Madam President, first of all I would like to apologize for the delay. I thought the meeting was starting at 2:30 p.m. The good news is, we have time until 6:30 p.m. We can therefore devote four hours to this matter. Of course, not all of you have to stay. With regard to yesterday's and the day before yesterday's European Council, I would like to highlight three issues: Russia's discussion of the sixth sanction package, energy and defence. Firstly, it has been agreed to implement a sixth sanction package. These are very far-reaching sanctions, which affect the financing capacity of the Russian war machine very hard. The emphasis is on oil, because Russia earns more from oil than gas, EUR 30 billion in oil and EUR 20 billion in gas respectively. In the run-up to the summit, it was clear that it was not an obvious discussion. Once again, however, the 27 EU Member States have managed to take common decisions and take account of the sensitivities of each country. It can never be the intention to take decisions which would mean that certain countries, for example, would no longer have access to diesel or petrol. However, there was once again consensus. I think it's a balanced package. Each country is doing its part. Some countries are in a more complicated position than others and we give them time to organize themselves. I would like to emphasise the importance of this sanction package, but I would also like to say very clearly that we are gradually reaching the limits of the energy sanctions packages. In my eyes, we're actually already at the limit. The intention is to hurt Russia, not ourselves. Another item on the agenda of the European Council was energy. This is a high priority in the protection of our citizens and I have always kept this element in mind in the negotiations we have conducted. We see that prices have stabilised after the peaks of this winter. However, they are very high. We have therefore taken a whole range of measures at national level. However, we know very well that these measures are not structural. We have been knocking on the table in Europe over the last three months to take measures at European level that can be a lot more powerful than what a Member State can do alone. I am pleased that this call was heard. The European Council has asked the Commission to work on two runs. The first is the stabilisation of prices by coordinating common purchases. More and more gas contracts are coming to an end today. As a European buyer, we must use the full weight of our volume to set more favourable rates and avoid increasing prices relative to each other. The second element is the fact that the Commission will now also develop a price cap mechanism in the event of abrupt price shocks resulting from non-related decisions, e.g. the cut-off of gas supply. The Commission must also draw up concrete proposals to have a price pressure effect for the winter months. She will do so in consultation with international partners. This can be in the form of a hard cap or import taxes. Belgium has been asking for such measures for three months. We are now waiting for the Commission to implement the conclusions we have reached. The time for words is over, we must now obtain results. These results are expected to help lower prices and help us through next winter. I would like to stress once again that I believe in the free market, but the current events in the wholesale energy markets show that it is completely out of control. In this case, it is no longer about a free market and it is responsible for a government to intervene. Eventually, the market must function in the interests of the citizens, but we note that citizens, businesses and also public authorities are suffering very badly at the moment. We must therefore intervene to maintain the support of the people of Europe for the measures taken. The sanctions are not a self-sustaining exercise, but if we can alleviate the pain of Europeans, then we must certainly do so. I would like to return to the discussion of the ETS allocation key in the REPowerEU package. Belgium, along with other countries, has really pulled the hand brake. We could not support the Commission's funding package. The French Presidency has, through President Macron, confirmed that the Council will work towards a compromise. It was not acceptable for the distribution key to be the covid key, because we are now in a situation other than that. That key wouldn't have been to our advantage. The last issue concerns defence. Since the Versailles Summit, we have asked for a defence policy which will improve Europeans, namely a defence policy which protects the security of Europeans better, but also a defence policy which will improve European industry and improve our European societies. That is the starting point of our vision of defence. In February, the government decided to increase defence expenditure on the basis of three criteria: less fragmentation, more industrial return for our country and more social return. In this way, defence expenditure will eventually become investment with a real real result. I am pleased that yesterday's European decision fully embraced the logic of two of those three conditions, namely fragmentation and industrial return, which are the elements in which Europe can play a role. We are pleased with that, because this is the direction in which we have tried to push that defence debate. In my view, we have succeeded well in doing so. This means that a window is now being opened that is fairly unseen, in the field of fundamental cooperation between European countries. There will be far-reaching integration in the field of procurement and development, with more opportunities for our industry. We finally have a consensus on this. In the past, many countries had doubts about this. We are taking these decisions at a time when, like Europeans, we are losing some form of naivety. We must become more independent from an energy point of view. We must also become more independent from a defence point of view. This means that European countries must invest in defence. Of course, this also fits in with the government's discussion of increasing defence expenditure to 2% of GDP. The contribution of 2% that NATO is asking for is needed to keep ourselves and Europe safe, to keep war outside our borders and to organize the military deterrent. This contribution of 2% is the most efficient in the NATO context. The United States remains our most important and best ally. Above all, we must ensure that we, as Europeans, can also protect ourselves. We must do this intelligently with European investment in European companies, with the creation of European jobs and with decisions that can make European societies stronger, not just in the military sphere. Our security concerns defence, but also energy independence and means to combat the impact of the climate. Some argue that our safety also relates to food security. Our security is a broad discussion. Defence is an element of this, for which we must also assume our responsibilities. This is my introduction to the Council's presentation yesterday and the day before yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister. I propose that we start our exchanges, in the order of the political groups, as we have traditionally done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u4	Madam President, Prime Minister, we are in the constellation of an actua debate. I suppose we can ask our questions by group? The bounty has spoken very briefly, so I suppose that's okay?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u5	Questions can certainly be asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u6	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your willingness. You will have questions from me about energy and enlargement, and Mr Francken will deal with defence, among other things. The energy issue is very important today. Both governments and citizens are affected by what is currently happening in the energy market, including the war in Ukraine. I have three questions about this. Firstly, with regard to energy contracts, Russia is asking to be paid in rubble. Countries that do not are cut off from Russian gas. Last time, the Netherlands refused to pay in rubles and it was cut off from the Russian gas. Your Minister for Energy claims that we do not pay in roubles, but indeed in euros. However, we read other things about this. The situation may be different from that in the Netherlands because we do not pay directly, but that does not mean that the two companies through which we receive Russian gas do pay in roubles. I'm talking about the Italian ENI and the French Engie. ENI has already admitted to pay in rubles, Engie claims not to. However, if Engie has accounts with Gazprom, there is no answer. I would therefore like to ask you whether you can guarantee that we will not pay in roubles but in euros, albeit indirectly through the companies from which we import Russian gas. We are currently in a weak position because of the lack of a long-term vision of energy, but there is no need for further clarification. My second question concerns the implementation of the Fit for 55 package. It was advocated at European level that it should be implemented more quickly, and this will entail additional costs, which are already very high. Do you think that speeding up the implementation of this Fit for 55 package is a good idea at this time when citizens are already experiencing difficulties in paying their bills? Indeed, the accelerated implementation of this package is subject to a high price. My third question concerns the planned gas switch-off plan in the event of a gas shortage. You are aware that mainly Flemish companies use gas as an energy source. We are in a recession and the market is therefore experiencing difficulties. Since the companies are the engine of our economy, I would like to know if you can guarantee that the companies will be protected from this. Otherwise, we will be at the heart of the problem, namely to ensure that our companies can continue to function optimally. In this way, we can safeguard the citizens' purchasing power. I also have a question about Ukraine's possible membership of the European Union. You did not go into this in more detail, but this is a matter that lies ahead in the wake of the war between Russia and Ukraine. You have already made it clear in plenary that Ukraine, like all other candidate countries, must meet all the Copenhagen criteria. In my view, there can be no accelerated procedure. Membership of the European Union is not nothing but natural. However, we see that other candidate countries, especially from the Western Balkans, are asking questions about what is happening in the context of enlargement. France and Germany, for example, also advocate the convening of a special summit for the Western Balkans on enlargement. What is the government's position in this respect in the light of the wider questions surrounding Ukraine's possible accession?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u7	Madam President, my colleague and group leader Wouter De Vriendt will also speak for the Ecolo-Groen Group in the second round. First of all, I wanted to welcome this agreement by European leaders imposing sanctions that would cover almost 90% of Russian oil imports. It's important and it's important to remember: no one here wants a war with Russia. On the other hand, we have the levers and have the means, here and now, on European soil, to drain the Kremlin war machine, financed directly and largely by fossil fuels. However, I have five questions with regard to this agreement. First, it must be noted that the compromise is incomplete. Let us not lie, since all of us here know why: this is the result of a blackmail by Viktor Orban in Hungary. The embargo is therefore partial, and we know that the Council will have to come back as soon as possible on the exemption of the remaining 10%. When will these exemptions be discussed? When can we expect a complete embargo on Russian oil imports into Europe? What safeguards will be put in place to ensure that the countries affected by these exemptions do not use Russian oil to benefit beyond their own consumption by de facto creating an unequal playing field on the internal market? Secondly - you yourself mentioned 20 million for gas in your introduction - other fossil fuels are important in the Russian war machine. Today, they are not affected by the sixth package of sanctions that has just been adopted. What measures will be envisaged to ensure that these other fossil fuels can also be limited? I am thinking here of the Nord Stream 2 project, which was suspended by the German Chancellor. Could it be completely cancelled? Thirdly, still linked to other sources of energy supply, what about uranium? Few people know that, but the Russian giant Rosatom is the Kremlin agency directly responsible for the development and testing of the Russian atomic bomb and nuclear weapons. It is quite incredible to observe, in a very objective way, that today the European Union depends on almost 42% of imports of nuclear fuel to run civilian reactors. We depend on this Rosatom agency, which, until proven otherwise, is still excluded from the European sanctions package. When can we finally sanction Rosatom as our Parliament asks – it was in a resolution voted at the very beginning of the invasion – but also obviously, the European Parliament. My fourth question concerns social tension. I confess that I find little attention to this just transition, which for me is crucial, in the conclusions of the European Council. This morning, a trainee, a young student, had just received a regularization bill of more than 1,200 euros. He's very young. He's in his 20s. As politicians, we must bear in mind that people are no longer doing well. It is important to curb the social cost of these sanctions for our citizens. I would like to have more details on the policy that will also be put in place at European level to lower the excise duty floor, for example, and above all to protect the weakest. My fifth and final question concerns food security and Africa. The EU-Africa summit was held one week before the attack and aggression by Russia on Ukraine. I believe that the conclusions of this EU-Africa summit should not be forgotten. We must speed up our assistance to Africa, especially in order to minimize the risks of food insecurity, but we must also combat the misinformation organised by Russia. The Russians are making us, the European countries, responsible for the rising food prices. What initiatives are we going to take, as Europeans, towards Africa in this fight against food insecurity? Above all, how are we going to deal with the 0.7 per cent of GDP target for official development assistance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u8	Prime Minister, when you presented the briefing last week and I asked you whether there was a risk that the resources planned for Africa at the Macron-Michel summit would slide eastward - I suppose the President of the African Union, Mr Macky Sall, also mentioned it in his speech - you told me that it was a shared fear. Could you be reassured at this Council? Secondly, as far as the sixth package of sanctions is concerned, it is indeed a compromise. It seems like a compromise to Belgian, tinted with pragmatism. You said it and said it again: we're here not to hurt, but not to hurt each other. Another element struck me in your presentation. You said last week that the solution would not come from the battlefield. However, I do not hear much information in this debriefing about diplomacy. We're talking about sanctions, reactions, but not much of what we can do to stop the war. Do we resume active diplomacy, or do we continue to follow, by engaging more and more in a war movement that will certainly lead us to a catastrophe for all populations? These people are suffering in Ukraine, Russia, and they are beginning to suffer dangerously at home. It's getting a little bit out of hand from time to time: when a journalist is murdered in Ukraine, we talk about it, but we don't talk about the journalist who was murdered in Palestine anymore. Prime Minister, on this subject, have you received a reply from the Israeli Foreign Minister following the letter you sent to him asking for his position on the assassination of this journalist in Palestine? As far as defence is concerned, there is continuity. Popular wisdom says that every evil thing is good. It is true that there may be a surge in European countries' awareness of the need for European defence. You said we were naive. Not everyone was naive because, since the time we have been advocating this European defence, I understand that two of the three objectives have been achieved. Are we able to agree on equipment on time and on time? Or will we continue to depend on the United States to provide European defence, which would be, as with the F35s, a form of strategic dependence? We could have created a European defence a long time ago, but we were blocked by Britain, which absolutely did not want it. It would have been very useful today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u9	Madam President, Prime Minister, there are still many questions. You state that agreement has been reached on the sixth sanction package. The European Union is also working on a system to stabilise prices and enforce more favourable tariffs. A piste to limit prices is currently being worked out. A number of ideas are being considered, such as import taxes. What will this arrangement look like in concrete terms? To what extent will it be possible for our country to reduce the expected inflation? What slope will our country propose to reduce inflation in Belgium? A new commitment has been made with regard to Ukrainian displaced persons. How is the distribution key between the different Member States laid down in concrete terms? Is the focus on establishment in your own region? Is there any prospect of a return to safe areas in Ukraine or neighbouring countries? After all, many refugees would like to return to their home country when it becomes safer. How does the European Union deal with this in concrete terms? According to the report, EUR 9 billion of macro-financial assistance is provided to Ukraine. What will be the distribution key between Member States? As Mr Flahaut said, diplomacy seems to be absent throughout the report. It has been agreed to further increase military support within the framework of the European Peace Facility. What role does diplomatic dialogue play at the moment or has it played at the recent European Council summit? For defence, the focus is on two pillars: less fragmentation and more economic, industrial and social return. What did you say at that European summit about our contribution to the higher defence budget at European level? In your opinion, we need to become more independent and have a discussion about that contribution of 2%. Did you repeat your plea that you made in the domestic press at that summit? What is your interpretation of that? As far as food security is concerned, I would like to know whether there is a better understanding of how the expected migration flows from the Middle East and Africa will be countered at European level. That will be the result of Putin's desire for global food insecurity, which he currently envisages as a result of the blockade of cereal exports from Ukraine. Can you tell us how we are looking ahead to this or how we are proactively working at European level to combat migratory flows? I would like to refer briefly, Madam President, to the questions that I had put to this committee and which I would have liked to have answered. I am talking in particular about the position of the Prime Minister and the European Commission on possible Ukrainian EU membership. A lot of ink has already flowed on this, but I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether this was discussed at the summit. What attitude have we taken on this and what is the attitude of the EU summit at the moment? We have heard the statements of Ursula von der Leyen in the past, but I would like to know what remains of them. I also have a question on the edge of the defence debate. I would have liked to have heard your views on the potential NATO accession of Finland and Sweden and any additional risk of escalation if that accession continues. That seems likely, of course, and we have no problem with that, for the record. Those are autonomous decisions of those states. However, can you say whether diplomatic initiatives are currently being taken by the EU and possibly by NATO to prevent an escalation of such accession?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u10	Prime Minister, first of all I would like to have a thought for the French journalist Frédéric Leclerc-Imhoff of BFMTV who was killed in the exercise of his profession following a Russian bombing that hit a humanitarian bus. He is already the eighth journalist who lost his life in a hundred days of war in Ukraine. For having experienced myself this hard job of postponing war – in Kosovo in particular – I know what dangers this poses and I know above all that the press is an essential counter-power in any democracy. I think it is important to have a position, a common message from the European Union – and Belgium – to the journalists' corporation but also to Moscow, which has no difficulty in murdering its own journalists or opponents, even beyond its borders. We must send an unequivocal message to this journalists' corporation, since the victims unfortunately count in dozens each year, whether in Ukraine, Palestine or elsewhere, in all the theatres of conflict. It is important to be able to express oneself in this direction. With regard to the sixth package of sanctions against Russia, you say that the limits of the exercise are being touched, and I share your view. Sanctions are not an exercise of self-flogging but, let us not be hypocritical, we know the situation on the ground. There are terrible bombings at this very moment in Severodonetsk in the Donbass. I believe that further sanctions will probably be necessary in this situation. However, this sixth package of sanctions was very difficult to negotiate. What will be the fate of the next package of sanctions in your eyes? What political lessons should be drawn in negotiating the next one? Is it in favour of using the Russian funds seized to rebuild Ukraine? What about the frozen funds of the Russian Central Bank? You said that a very solid legal basis would be needed for this. Was this topic addressed at the Council? Beyond the sanctions, what about the political unity of the European Union regarding our policy with Russia in the medium and long term? Will Russia be isolated as long as Putin is in power? Will we only have contacts to negotiate humanitarian agreements or an agreement with Moscow on Ukraine? Will there be a continuation of long-term sanctions or a new cold war? What is the European Union's vision for a broader and longer perspective? With regard to Russian oil, I am pleased that you have endorsed this sanction, which concerns 30 billion profits for Moscow, while gas represents 20 billion profits. In concrete terms, the European partners will now boycott Russian oil products that are transported by sea. In practice, how do you intend to preserve the integrity of our common market and competition in this market, from the moment when some simply have to open the tap, if you allow me to say so, while others will have to rethink their entire supply chain? Some of our partners are already calling for this principle to be extended to include gas resources. What is our country's position on this potential extension of the Russian oil embargo to Russian gas? This is my third point on wheat. We can see the tension in the international markets concerning it. In addition, theft of Ukrainian wheat by the Russians is deeply shocking, a wheat that goes in particular to Syria. There is a rise in prices on this agricultural market. There is also this key point that relates to the question of what is the fate of the wheat that is stored in the port of the city of Odessa? As we know, this city and port are being mined by Ukrainians to protect themselves from the Russians. What will be done to frame Ukrainian boats from the Black Sea to the Bosphorus? Will we be involved in the drafting and adoption of a resolution in the Security Council to force the Russians to display their position or will we simply close our eyes when Russia may have decided to starve buyers from the south of the continent or the globe? In my view, Belgium has a diplomatic role to play in this matter, and I would like to hear from you on this issue. What about demining in the port of Odessa or other areas of Ukraine? Belgium has expertise in this area. It would be interesting to see to what extent our country could participate. My fourth point concerns the energy transition that you have mentioned. The 27 want to speed up – and this is indeed fundamental – the efforts in this area, in particular through the rapid implementation of the REPowerEU plan to which you alluded, or by speeding up the licensing procedures for renewable energy projects. Moreover, such projects are already massively present in the NextGenerationEU plan. To what extent is this additional acceleration effort comparable to our economic fabric, our administrations, our individuals? Is there a risk of losing on the way some of the 27 Member States that could be disadvantaged by a less strong, less resilient, less innovative economy? In other words, is this overbidding not likely to lead to a two-speed Europe? I will address the last point that concerns the Defence. I welcome the adoption of the cluster procurement mechanism. I think this is a huge step forward for European defence. But we also feel the desire to favour European companies – as I had already suggested at the briefing – and Belgian companies as well. What legal basis could be used in this regard? Are we ready to legally build a European defence buy act? These are my questions, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u11	Prime Minister, the war in Ukraine has been going on for more than three months and, of course, is still causing enormous humanitarian suffering. There is also still the risk of further escalation. As I said this morning, we have to be careful that the conflict is not getting worse or hijacked, not even by the United States, which, of course, has a different geopolitical agenda than we or the European Union. It has already been said that we want to drag the war as long as possible, with the aim of further exhausting Russia. Previously, it had been pointed out that in the long term it might be the intention to facilitate the change in the regime. So it's not just about countering the Russian advance in the Donbas, it's about much more. I believe that this is dangerous, because no matter how much we wish for Putin and how much we wish for him to be removed from power and for someone else to be brought to power, as long as he remains there and as long as Russia remains a neighbouring country of the European Union, we must, of course, make every effort to put pressure on him, impose sanctions and provide weapons, try to reinvigorate the active peace policy and continue to follow the path of diplomacy, to ensure that it does not escalate further. The consequences of sanctions are global. You said just now: we must make sure that we do not use this to self-sustainment and that we do not shoot ourselves in the foot. Already the sanctions are causing a lot of collateral damage, side damage. I would even say that there is a certain imbalance between, on the one hand, trying to hurt the oligarchs and Putin and, on the other hand, to alleviate the suffering of the working population, including in our country. I fear that there is already a imbalance, because by announcing the sixth sanction package, we already know that fuel prices at the pump will increase even more. So we are already in a situation where the average working person in Belgium has to spend a historically unseen proportion of his income on fuel to get to work. You are talking about acceptance, you are saying that we must retain our support in order to maintain the policy of sanctions, but I fear that that support is already completely gone. After all, how do you intend to continue to justify and explain it? Fuel prices will continue to rise. You say Russia is being hit in its war chest, in its war effort. That is indeed a noble objective in itself, but if we look purely geopolitically at the world and make abstraction of the West that imposes sanctions, and then when we look at the world, we find that Russia is not in principle completely isolated. Russia can partly compensate and restore its trade figure by concluding larger and more lucrative contracts with, for example, India or China. We must avoid torturing ourselves, what we are doing now, and Russia simply has a way out.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u12	How can we prevent third countries from purchasing Russian oil and changing their flag and tanker along the way, which means that the oil still ends up in Europe and we pay it more expensive, while it is still Russian oil? If we want to avoid geopolitically importing oil from a country that organises aggression against a sovereign country, we must ask ourselves whether we are not dealing with the same fire, which is responsible for a great deal of humanitarian suffering in Yemen, in the case of accelerated decoupling of Russian oil and increased supply from the Middle East, including Saudi Arabia. In the meantime, 400,000 have already been killed there. There is also an important climate impact angle. Shale gas is coming back into view and probably we're drilling supplies from the United States to ensure our energy supply. We know that this is extremely polluting in environmental terms and that it will further increase climate degradation. Fracking releases a lot of methane, which is a dangerous greenhouse gas. Prime Minister, I think the collateral damage is already very large, not just for the working population in Belgium and Europe. The global food crisis that is already taking place will be exacerbated by sanctions and countermeasures. That's a pain point in the analysis. No country outside the West imposes sanctions on Russia, even NATO Member State Turkey does not. We are almost in a situation where those countries ensure their access to Russia and are driven even more towards it, so that prices remain stable and Russia can restore its trade figure. On the other hand, we are seriously undermining ourselves economically and socio-economically. Meanwhile, we will also pay blue for natural and environmental shale gas from the United States and we will probably increase imports from the Middle East as well. In addition, energy independence is very important in the long term, but by moving through the shutdown very quickly and shockingly, we see that coal is once again becoming very attractive as a source of energy. Ironically, we also see that the large multinationals and oil giants are even more encouraged by high fuel prices to discover and mine new areas. That is a very counterproductive effect, which we certainly do not intend to achieve. All the reservations and concerns we give are therefore merely intended as a motivation to call upon and encourage this government once again to make every effort to contribute to a certain de-escalation and not to lose sight of the path of negotiated peace. Think of Italy, for example, which has also proposed a peace plan. We must also try to respect the historical tradition of our country in order to contribute to relaxation and to promote dialogue, rather than being sleepwalkers in a further escalation and escalation of the conflict, with all its consequences. It may be a slogan, but still important to repeat. Russia has started a war. That's a pity. We should have done everything we could to avoid that, but Russia has decided otherwise. Now it's time to end the war as soon as possible. Wars must not be won or lost. The consequences are already disastrous. The consequences of sanctions are already disastrous. There is already an imbalance, including for the population and food security. It will be even more disastrous, especially if we continue to persevere in a policy of sanctions which we believe is inefficient. If we go further along the path of sanctions, we must also have the decency to help the Belgian people pay their fuel prices. People do not understand that there are now a few billion more for the Defense Department at a time when working people in this country are also bleeding ferociously.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u13	Prime Minister, we all know that the weapon of rape is being used massively in Ukraine. I speak of a weapon, because the rape is used as a weapon and is deliberately used as a strategy. We have adopted a resolution on this to condemn and investigate this practice, but in the meantime the Russian soldiers are simply going ahead. The victims were made: girls, women and also men are massive victims of sexual violence in that filthy war. There are now alarming reports that there are many girls and women among the refugees who are pregnant after rape. They'll be looking for an abortion in Poland. We can, of course, imagine this, but we all know that Poland has very strict legislation on abortion. In principle, abortion after rape is legal in Poland, but according to Amnesty International, that is not the case at all in practice. In practice, it is almost impossible to get an abortion there because of the laws that were tightened in 2020. Doctors simply refuse an abortion, especially for fear of the legal consequences. A few months ago we heard the story of a young woman who died because a doctor refused to remove a dead fetus. The situation there is therefore poignant. Here and there there is help: there is Abortion Without Borders, an NGO that helps women there on abortion medication and helps them to travel to countries where abortion is easier. The telephone of such organizations is, however, incredibly hot. They receive massive calls from Ukrainian women seeking help. We have discussed and condemned the legislation on abortion in Poland on many occasions. You have always been very brave in that. Perhaps it is not the time to condemn Poland once again, but we must take action. Have you already raised this situation with the Polish Government? What steps has our country taken as an EU member? How can Belgium help to ensure that Ukrainian women have sufficient abortion and morning-after-treatment wherever they are. This is not only difficult in Poland, and that Ukrainian refugees receive the necessary information? That too is important. Have awareness and information campaigns been launched? What has Belgium done to help? I have another question about Ukraine. There is disturbing news that children with severe restrictions in western Ukraine are left in overcrowded, improvised care centers. The employees of these centres are in the hair with their hands in them. They have neither the means, nor the knowledge, nor the training to provide the proper care. Despite all the good will, they don't know how to deal with those kids. The researchers of DRI saw tied children left behind in dark and poorly aired rooms, crying in their own feces, injuring themselves. It's total doom and torment. Even the most essential basic care is often not available. The institutions do their best, but they have to row with the belts they have. We can't just leave these kids to their fate, can we? Are you aware of the DRI report? Do you know if any NGOs are active on the ground to help those abandoned children? Do you have any ideas about how we can get these kids to safety? What role could Belgium play in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u14	Madam President, Prime Minister, first of all I have a number of questions concerning the sixth sanction package and the level playing field with regard to the oil boycott. At first glance, that level playing field does not seem to be preserved if we only ban part of Russian oil from the European market and certain countries still import Russian oil via pipelines. The conclusions of the European Council state that the European Commission must take and monitor action to this end. How will this be done? Has that been discussed? It has also been decided that pipeline supply is a temporary exception. What's "temporary"? Will the European Council take a decision on this? When? The sixth sanction package is a compromise. It is a pity that the initial proposal failed because Viktor Orbán claims victory in international media, even outside Europe. This gives the European Union a rather strange picture of its policy towards Russia. Does the sixth sanction package include a shipping insurance ban? So is the boycott only valid for imports of Russian oil by sea to Europe or is it also about the transport of Russian oil by European shipping companies to the rest of the world? In the latter case, of course, the boycott would have a very great effect, in the first case there is a greater risk of substitution. Will the United States and the United Kingdom join these sanctions? If the United Kingdom does not comply with the sanctions, it will weaken their impact. The ink of the European Council conclusions is not yet dry or some EU Member States are already talking about a seventh package of sanctions on gas. President Macron stated that he was in favour of this and referred to France's low dependence on Russian gas. Why is the sixth sanction package an end point for you on energy sanctions? The diamond trade is still not included in a sanction package. I suspect you will reply that this has not been included in the European Commission's proposals and is therefore not discussed at European level. However, there are arguments for doing something in this area, because the proceeds of the diamond trade, in particular through Alrosa, finance the Russian army. In this way, we also finance the war in Ukraine. President Zelenski has expressly asked this House to take action against Belgium. An option paper has been drawn up at administrative level, but no decisions have yet been taken at political level. When was that supposed to happen? Shall we take action against the diamond trade? When? In the Council conclusions we read that the Council urges Russia to immediately put an end to the attacks and to withdraw its troops and equipment immediately and unconditionally from the entire territory of Ukraine, within its internationally recognised borders. Is that how the European Council sees the endgame? Do we not go beyond what President Zelenski himself asked us to do, namely to return to the situation before 24 February 2022? Has that been discussed at the European Council? In line with the previous question, many people are concerned that the options for diplomatic negotiations with Russia, including the European Union, have not been sufficiently exhausted today. What is your position on that? Did you mention anything about this at the European Council? I also have two questions about energy. Firstly, you have already put the gas price gap on the agenda at the Versailles Summit in March 2022, for which I would like to congratulate you. That is where you have already stuck your neck in putting that item on the European agenda. The mechanism now to be further examined by the European Commission differs from that earlier proposal. It's about the import price ceilings, which means a weakening. Can you explain why this option was chosen, so to place the ceiling on import prices? How do you see the timing of reaching an agreement on this? The European Commission must now come up with a proposal, but after that a decision-making process will still have to be followed. Are the agreements on the group purchases for energy non-binding? We see that Germany is negotiating with Qatar and Italy has gone to Algeria. What exactly was agreed on in this respect? Does everyone participate or do we see a kind of déjà vu with the vaccines, where everyone first tries to negotiate separately and then comes to the conclusion that it is better to do so together? I have one final question about food security and the food crisis. We see Russia spreading formidable propaganda, especially in Africa, claiming that the food crisis is the result of Western sanctions. This discourse here in Belgium is also taken over by certain political parties, while the truth is of course the other way around. It is the invasion of Ukraine, the bombing of the country and the blocking of the Black Sea that are one of the main causes of the food crisis, alongside, of course, the corona crisis and climate change. It is very important that the European Union provides a strong response to the food crisis and thus responds to propaganda lies from Russia. If we do not, we will have lost a number of African countries for good. How will our country help to support the export of agricultural products from Ukraine? I understand that there was talk of the deployment of mining services in the Black Sea. Is that right? Finally, do our countries have a role to play in getting products out of the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u15	Prime Minister, thank you for this debriefing. I believe that the essential thing has been preserved, that is, European unity. It was really important. I'm glad. It is true that this has been done at the price of substantial concessions to Hungary, which is decidedly a ball in many respects, in order to try to have an ambitious strategy at European level. I have seen Mr Orbán rejoice in all this. I think that, in the long run, there is no reason to welcome this systematic blockage of the European project. We can learn from it for the future. Despite the price we had to pay, we remained united. This is the most important political message we have sent to the world, Russia and Ukraine. It is this unity of the European Union. In relation to this sixth package of sanctions, what has so far been the height of Belgium's financing to the Ukrainian conflict since it started, through the purchase of gas and oil? If you do not have this information, I will certainly rest the question. What would be, in the scenario of a disengagement on oil but not on gas, the height of the financing of this conflict in the coming months until the end of the year, since it is a long-term conflict? At some point, it is important that the Belgians be able to know our contribution to the Russian and Ukrainian war effort. As far as Ukraine is concerned, we know it. I can hear you saying that the impact of sanctions must first be measured before we talk about a seventh package. But I rarely have information on how we evaluate this impact. What are the criteria for you to use to measure the impact of the six sanctions packages that have been taken? It is important to have an evaluation grid that allows us to know if we are in the right place, how it works and why we think it works. You say the idea is not to hurt ourselves. Now I can't follow you, Prime Minister. The idea that we could stand in solidarity with Ukraine and have sanctions, but that would not hurt us, no! There is a need to educate the population in this regard. Of course it has a cost for us too! Of course it has an impact for us too! I believe that the Belgian (and European) population can understand that sanctions can also affect ourselves, our prosperity and our standard of living. The aim is to measure its importance and to protect the most vulnerable, at-risk people. We must not continue to have a message that this would not have an impact on our populations. That's not good. It feeds populist discourse – we hear it. And that's not true. I think it is better to say what the impact could be on us and, where appropriate, measure it and ensure that the most vulnerable groups are protected. That's what I meant as an introduction. I come to the questions I had tabled. Prime Minister, you know some of them, but I would like an update. First, regarding our diplomatic representation in Ukraine, where are we? You know that most Member States have now regained diplomatic representation in Ukraine, have reopened and have recovered a level more or less similar to that existing before the conflict. Prime Minister, why do we still not have diplomatic representation? When will we have diplomatic representation? What do we need to have this diplomatic representation? My second question concerns our general strategy with regard to Ukraine. Have you discussed with your European colleagues what our war goals would be? We are involved in this conflict, in a somewhat atypical way. Of course, we are not directly involved, but we are attacked through cyber attacks and there are commercial reprisals. We provide military weapons. What strategy do we adopt? Is it still the territorial integrity of Ukraine? Politically, what is the status of Ukraine's candidate for membership? What is the weapons strategy that is currently being debated between the Member States of the European Union? In particular, there is the issue of heavy weapons and an increasing number of weapons in order to eventually restore the territorial integrity of Ukraine. It seems to me important to clarify this, because I believe that the precise definition of our goals and strategies will inform us of the efforts to be made. What effort are we going to make with regard to Ukraine's armaments? On 21 April last, in the plenary of the Chamber, you announced $76.9 million for the military effort. That was not the figure we had received in committee. The Defence officials had given us a figure twice as much. The third budgetary adjustment refers to a total of 58 million military aid to Ukraine. What, then, is the right number because different numbers are circulating? To my knowledge, this is the one in the third budget adjustment. Do you confirm that? I now turn to the reconstruction of Ukraine. When I questioned you, you told me that this was not the time to talk about reconstruction, because it was far too early. This is quite interesting, because at the same time, the boss of Enabel, the Belgian development agency, was taking part in a meeting in Vilnius on European coordination in the reconstruction of Ukraine. As you said it was too early, the head of our Belgian development agency was taking part in a meeting in Vilnius on this subject. On 4 and 5 July, an international conference "Ukraine Recovery Conference" will be held in Lugano, Switzerland, to raise funds for the reconstruction of Ukraine. I'll put the question to you. It is not too early to receive an answer and it is even very important. What will be Belgium's effort in this reconstruction? What territories will he focus on? Many Member States have chosen areas in which they will work more specifically. I asked you about certain areas of Donbass where Belgium has a heritage. Of course, today it is unimaginable to consider reconstruction. Kharkiv is a city that has also been immensely destroyed. It is important not to delay. I have often seen, in recent experiences, too long delays in the reconstruction of certain cities. In Iraq, Belgium intervened on Mosul, and in Syria, on Racca. We have taken far too long to decide to rebuild. In one case, Iran, and in the other, Saudi Arabia is rebuilding but according to their own political agenda. Europe must therefore be there to quickly rebuild and mobilize funds. I join those who propose that the funds of the oligarchs be used for this mission. As far as mine clearance is concerned, we have expertise in this area. He was seen in Cambodia, Laos or other countries. The Mayor of Kiev told me that it will take three years to clear the woods around Kiev and that he will need international assistance. Can we mobilize our deminers there or by training Ukrainian deminers in Belgium or through NGOs? It would be a shame not to mobilize our expertise. I join the questions on the accession of Sweden and Finland. Finally, you have welcomed the fact that, in the field of European defence, we have emerged from this age of fragmentation and lack of industrial returns. You spoke of an exit from naivety and an effort of sovereignty. You're right, that's a lesson we learned from the pandemic in terms of health. We learn about energy and defence. This sovereignty is extremely important. Within the new French government, two ministers bear the word "sovereignty" in their powers: industrial sovereignty and agricultural sovereignty. I would prefer it to be European sovereignty rather than each Member State working on its own sovereignty. That would be a lot smarter. You have linked the 2% defence budget effort to the fact that there is a step forward in integration and industrial returns. This seems to be acquired. You're coming out of a kern who's been discussing this 2% issue. What is the status of Vivaldi's decision-making on this 2% issue? I would remind you that the upgrading of the efforts of other NATO member countries is part of the government agreement. They will reach 2% by 2023 and I would like to know if we will respect Vivaldi's commitment and commitment to NATO.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u16	Prime Minister, I thank you for your briefing on the sixth package of sanctions that was adopted this Monday against Russia at the European Summit. I would like to return to my first question about this progressive but partial embargo on Russian oil and its impact on the portfolio of our citizens. My party has always supported this embargo, and I would like to congratulate you on that. We could not, on the one hand, condemn the war in Ukraine and, on the other hand, continue to finance it. The problem, as some of my colleagues have pointed out, is that this agreement was only allowed by giving in to the blackmail of Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, who thus managed to meet the initial ambitions of the European Union by obtaining for Hungary, but also for the Czech Republic and Slovakia, a derogation from this embargo, in order to maintain their access to the Droujba pipeline. We must be careful, this derogation can be understood in the light of the very particular energy situation of these countries, because they do not have access to the sea, but also because their refinery plants are inherited from the Soviet era. However, it remains to be wondered whether there is any need for further action to be taken in order to be able to adopt today a harmonised package of sanctions against the Russian Government by all the countries of the European Union. This would have had a much greater impact, while ensuring the energy supply of these three countries at an affordable cost. Mr Prime Minister, what measures are being taken both at Belgian and European level to understand the risks of unfair competition, but also of price explosions, which could emerge from this agreement, in any case for the consumers of the countries which have accepted this embargo? As you rightly said, this embargo cannot be an exercise of self-flogging. It must severely affect Mr Putin's martial portfolio, not the vital portfolio of our consumers, who are already having so much trouble paying their energy bills today. In this regard, you have presented two lines of action. I imagine that these are the compensations and "rebalancings" that you referred to in the press at the end of this important meeting, namely the stabilisation of prices through a common European purchasing policy, but also a mechanism for capping prices in the event of an acute outbreak. On the other hand, I did not understand whether these tracks were already on the track of the European Commission or whether they were only proposals put forward by the Belgian Government. I would like clarifications on this. In any case, in my view, these avenues must be put in place as quickly as possible, while knowing that they do not meet the other need arising from this embargo, namely to find new sources of energy supply. Much is said today about Nigeria, Angola, Algeria, the United States, the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia. This is still quite worrying in several respects. First, Saudi Arabia and Russia have very close ties - Saudi Arabia has not condemned the war in Ukraine. Secondly, it is worrying in view of the way in which human rights are violated every day in Saudi Arabia. If we are entitled to criticize the war in Ukraine waged by Vladimir Putin and the Russian government, we must be consistent in the choice of countries to which we would turn in order to supply us with energy. What are the results of the ongoing negotiations with these countries and what guarantees can we now expect? The other issue raised by this embargo is how it can effectively extend, as soon as possible, to all the countries of the European Union. The short exemption period left to Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic has not yet been defined. You have stressed that the European Commission will follow up to ensure that this does not last longer than necessary. Can you tell us what this follow-up will consist of? Finally, can you explain to us what is the pause in the escalation of sanctions against Russia that you mentioned? You said at the moment that we would have touched the limits of these sanctions. What does that mean in practice? Would Belgium simply give up calling for an embargo on Russian gas? My second question concerns the fundamental rights of Ukrainian refugees, who are now being questioned in their host countries. I am thinking in particular of LGBTQIA+ people who find themselves in countries such as Hungary or Poland, where homosexuality is systematically attacked by the governments in place. I am referring to "zones without LGBT ideology" in Poland or to the fact that the representation of homosexuality is increasingly prohibited in a growing number of places in Hungary. I am also thinking of women who are at risk of sexual violence during their flight from Ukraine, as well as planned pregnancies and at-risk deliveries, but who will not be able to abort in Poland, given the ultra restrictive legislation in that country, as my colleague Liekens reminded us. However, the NGO Human Rights Watch has made it very clear that Poland must urgently strengthen its preventive and surveillance measures to protect Ukrainian refugees on its soil, especially women who are victims of trafficking, violence and rape. Prime Minister, are you aware of human rights violations committed against refugees in some host countries in the European Union? If so, has our Government ever taken diplomatic or other measures to respond to them? Were these violations addressed at the European Council on 30 and 31 May - you said that it had focused on the issue of energy? Do you intend to support local aid organisations that combat violence against Ukrainian refugees? How do you intend to act to help Ukrainian refugees for whom abortion would be necessary? Is it possible to temporarily transfer these women to states - including Belgium - that allow them to do so? Finally, I must ask you the question of my colleague, since he cannot wait for a second round. It dealt with the candidatures of Finland and Sweden for NATO membership. Do you confirm that Belgium will support a potential accession application from these two countries? Are you of the opinion that such an application may be approved? If so, within what time frame? Did you assess the risk of Russian military retaliation mentioned by Moscow if NATO endorsed this dual membership?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u17	Madam President, Prime Minister, I would like to return to the defensive and military aspect of the whole Ukraine story. You know I'm very interested in that. You will be expected at the NATO summit in Madrid in just under a month. I believe that this is the most important NATO summit in a decade. There will be a new strategic concept. The old, where Russia is seen as a strategic partner and China is not even mentioned, disappears. There will be a new strategic concept, in which a few points will be made, taking into account the latest developments, global, geopolitical, geostrategic. You will represent our country there. There are very important points on the agenda. One of the most important points is the extension of our alliance to two countries in the north, namely Sweden and Finland. I know that Belgium supports this and actively supports it. I was in Vilnius for four days before the NATO Parliament. We have also heard the speakers of the house from Finland and Sweden. They're a very demanding party. The Turkish delegation was very quiet. I expected more resistance from the Turkish delegation, but they were very calm, calm and quiet. They even adopted a resolution on both countries' applications for membership. I did not expect that, but the Turkish delegation agreed. I hope that this will cool without blowing and that eventually a good conversation between Joe Biden and Recep Erdogan can be found. Mr Prime Minister, perhaps you can explain the latest state of play in the negotiations between the 29 NATO Member States and Turkey. Will Turkey veto? Where's that going? You have much more knowledge and insight into that than we do. It will certainly have been discussed in the framework of the European summit of the last two days. What is the situation with regard to accession? Finland and Sweden are, of course, also Member States of the European Union. I'd like some explanation. Then the NATO summit. The most important thing you are expected to do there, Prime Minister, is to do in a realistic way what your predecessor, Mr Di Rupo, signed in Wales in 2014. That is a concrete plan laying down 2% of GDP investment in the Defence budget. This was promised in 2014, but was still not implemented. This government is taking a step in the right direction, a big step, and goes to 1.54 % in 2030. You know this is not enough. I'm glad you pulled that file towards you. This morning, I questioned the Secretary of Defense about this. He couldn't commit to that 2%. Her answer was that she's not a grade fetishist. I understand, above all, that the political signal is that this is a matter for the Prime Minister, for which the PS will not pay a price and with which you must draw your plan because she does not want to deal with it, something you should do if you want to. That's noted. It is particularly regrettable that a Minister of Defense does not defend more strongly what her CHOD advocates, which her entire department advocates and whatever is necessary. When I look at the Defence Investment Plan, we do not choose armed drones, something the Netherlands announces today to do, we do not choose a heavy helicopter component, unless this should be the upgrade of the NH 90, we do not choose to purchase Chinooks, which I regret and what the Netherlands will do, and we do not choose a third frigate, absolutely necessary to secure our maritime routes and the Antwerp and Sea Bridge ports. That is where additional money is needed. You know you can't go there without a concrete plan, because you'll be the only one. Each country will have a concrete plan, be it by 2024, by 2028, by 2030 or by 2035 at the latest. Everyone will have a plan, so you must have one. You know that if the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is difficult, you can count on our support. We will give you that majority, you should not worry about that. The largest party, the largest fraction of this country, will ensure that you do not lose face in Madrid, with everything that comes with it. For years, this country has benefited a great deal from NATO with its military headquarters in Casteau and its political headquarters in Evere. I would like to remind colleagues of what is in the coalition agreement. A coalition agreement is a Bible for a government. The government agreement states that the government will go to the average of non-nuclear European Member States by 2030. I understand, of course, that if the Greens signed that two years ago, they didn't think the average would be 2%. But, of course, that is not the problem of Open Vld, of the Prime Minister and the parties that are in favour. The average goes very fast to the 2 %. Prime Minister, the only thing you have to do, and you were a little later because of the meeting of the nuclear cabinet, so I suspect that's what this was about, because Mrs Dedonder had to be there, too, is simply refer to the Bible of your government, your government agreement. The average of European non-nuclear NATO counterparts, i.e. without France, is 2% by 2030. So let's just implement the coalition agreement. No one can be against that, because a party that does not implement the coalition agreement or withdraws from it is desolidating itself from the coalition agreement and getting the hot potato in its lap. So he is now with Mr Nollet and Mrs Almaci. So what is your action plan for the 2%, Prime Minister? When will you announce that? My second point is the howitzers. You have shown yourself to be great on the international stage a number of times. You said that solidarity with Ukraine is very important and that we would do everything in our power to support Zelenski. You are trying, I believe, to take a balanced path there. However, I must say that I do not understand how we could not have bought the howitzers. I understood this morning from the Minister of Defense that the howitzers were bought by someone else, but that they are going to Ukraine. I do hope they will be dropped off on the right Ukrainian side of the battlefield. Who actually bought these howitzers? Why weren't they purchased by us? Apparently, the price was too high. We would have sold them for 15,000 euros each, which is outrageously little. In the end it was 10 times as much, that would be 150.00 euros. To be honest, that still seems to me to be a fair price. Apparently, another country bought them? Did America buy the howitzers that are in Flanders? Was it Poland or Lithuania? Who bought them? If we don't buy the howitzers, we might be able to help transport them to Ukraine. Why don't you reach out to the nation that bought them to help transport them to Ukraine? They must depart from Tisselt, a submunicipality of Willebroek, in a large hangar. Will you hand out your hand to help with that transport of those howitzers? That is the least we can do, given that it is rather painful that we have not been able to buy them ourselves, given that they have always been ours. Concerns about a global food crisis have been widely borne, especially in the Anglo-Saxon world. Among other things, the British delegation in Vilnius the day before yesterday said that we must ensure that the port of Odessa is unblocked as soon as possible. The grain is now being transported by lorries across the border with Romania. However, that is not progressing. Those are far too small tonnages. Of course, ships are progressing. You have vetoed rail transport across Belarus for the sake of the sanctions regime. Is that right? What's that all about? Can we help with our mine sweepers to unblock the port of Odessa? Is there a military operation to reroute the grain and other nutrients from Ukraine? After all, there will soon be plenty of harvesting. For example, the pressure on food prices on international markets eases. Are you prepared to help or do you see this as a sign of war or escalation to Russia, given the presence of the Black Sea fleet of Sevastopol in the Black Sea? What is the Belgian Government's position on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u18	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your introduction. Several colleagues have already referred to the horror that is currently taking place in Ukraine. Colleagues De Maegd and Liekens have dealt with many aspects and I will not repeat them. You know that our group considers it crucial to assist Ukraine in every possible way and that we do so with a great deal of unity along the European side. I would like to make three points. Firstly, the risk of escalation, is that something that is on your radar and that is being discussed between the 27 Member States of the European Union? Personally, I am concerned about the reports that appear sporadic about alleged Ukrainian attacks on Russian territory. That's a line being crossed, isn't it? Ukraine must, of course, defend itself and defend every inch of its territory. We are helping, the West is doing so, Europe is doing so, NATO is doing so and Belgium is doing so. What is your view on this? Is this being discussed between the European countries? A second point concerns the diplomatic initiatives currently under way. Occasionally we read about long telephone calls between Putin and a number of European leaders, such as the French President Macron. Are these things that have been held in the European Union or are they purely bilateral initiatives? Is its content being tested with other countries or not? That's not always clear to me. What is your attitude at the moment with regard to diplomacy towards Russia? Is that something you believe in? If anything has been proven in recent weeks and months, it is that Russia has shown itself to be a particularly unreliable partner in terms of diplomacy or possible agreements that can be made. However, I think it is important to keep the long term in mind. When we think about a long-term European security structure, I repeat that it will be necessary at some point to have that conversation with Russia as well. We can't get out of that. Is that something that is already under consideration or is not being discussed because we are currently in a crisis situation because of Russian aggression? However, I believe that these long-term objectives must be borne in mind if action is to be taken, even though at present there is no luxury in taking steps in this direction. When we think responsibly about the conflict, we come to the conclusion that this long-term vision is necessary for the European security architecture. We will therefore have to negotiate with Russia at some point. Thirdly, you said just now that defence is also linked to energy autonomy. Is there a shared belief within the European Union that this acceleration in renewable energy is a means to this end? Are the 27 Member States convinced of this? The dependence of our country on Russian gas is quite small, but we know that Gazprom stops gas supplies to the Netherlands. Does this have an impact on Belgium? Can you confirm that our country is prepared for a scenario in which Russian gas supplies to Belgium would stop?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u19	Madam President, Prime Minister, I have two themes for intervention. The first one will be very brief. It concerns the statements and position of the Russian Orthodox Church and its Patriarch Kirill, who has just been punished, as well as other personalities of Russia, for his behaviour and especially his support for the war Russia is waging in Ukraine. It is on a specific point that I would like to ask you about the statements made by Patriarch Kirill, which seem to me to be either an access to deep dementia, or a total disregard for the basic values of human rights, especially LGBTQI people, since the leader of the Russian Orthodox Church said in his homily in March, at the beginning of the conflict in Ukraine, that "the Ukrainian conflict was at the centre of the clash of civilizations whose homosexuality would be one of the stakes". So, if I understand Patriarch Kirill very well, you have, on the one hand, Vladimir Putin who says that Ukraine must be denazed and, on the other hand, Patriarch Kirill who seems to say that Ukraine must be de-homososexualized because it is a great danger for Russian civilization and ultimately for the whole world. He even goes so far as to compare the organization of the Gay Pride to a sin condemned by the word of God. You'd think you'd come back to the dark times of the Catholic inquisition. Prime Minister, beyond the sanctions that have been widely imposed on Patriarch Kirill, has Belgium positioned itself on the homophobic words of the patriarch and condemned them? The second theme of my speech is the visit of the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights. The visit took place in early May and lasted four days on the ground of the conflict in Ukraine, where it was able to observe gross violations of human rights and humanitarian law with increasing evidence of arbitrary executions, torture and enforced and widespread disappearances. I will not remind you that it is essential to establish responsibility for violations of human rights and international humanitarian law, since this requires adequate documentation and the careful preservation of evidence in order to provide remedies to bring those responsible to justice. The Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights stated that she was committed to helping them along this path, in particular by facilitating access to existing expertise and best practices in the area of psychological assistance to victims of sexual violence in the context of the conflict. I, like other Belgian parliamentarians, sit in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where I will be questioning the Commissioner for Human Rights, Mrs Mijatovic, in this regard. I am also a co-sponsor of a motion for a resolution in this Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe calling for an international criminal investigation into acts of sexual violence committed in the context of the armed conflict in Ukraine. Prime Minister, how did Belgium speak about this visit by the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights to the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe? We're getting a little out of the European Union in the strict sense of the word. What is Belgium's position on these issues of sexual violence, and on the recognition of rape as a weapon of war?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u20	I apologise, Prime Minister, for taking so long and, above all, for being such a large group. The result is that we have a lot of questions. However, I will try to make them very limited. A first question concerns the EUR 800 million of aid to Ukraine. At some point there have been some misunderstandings, I think. You mentioned that number, and then the media gave the impression that it was a little less. As a result, your communication was damaging on both sides. I'm sure you'll be able to tell me in a moment. On the one hand, you did not appear as generous as the impression that was initially worked and on the other hand, you spooked quite a few people in your own country. After all, they were wondering why 800 million went to Ukraine, while there are still people in the misery in Pepinster. In short, there have been some misunderstandings about the correct meaning of that amount. It would be a good thing if you could give us some clarity today. A second case is important, but it is also delicate. We're in a war, and a war has its own logic. Then do you ever want some values? How should I put it? Getting into a different context. I am talking about the European ban on unwanted Russian channels. Of course, you are also very much in favour of freedom of expression and the free exchange of views, but we should not be naive now: the channels on which Mrs von der Leyen has already taken a very strong position on this, can hardly be regarded as areas of liberal thinking. There's no question about that. However, this does not alter the fact that stopping the possibility of taking note of messages that were already banned, for example RTR-Planeta or Russia-24, Russia Today and Sputnik... I absolutely agree that it is not obvious to adopt an attitude to that. However, the decision to stop access to these media channels has caused a reaction. Professor Dirk Voorhoof, an authority in the field of freedom of the press, talks in De Standaard about arbitrary and disproportionate interference in the freedom of the media. That terminology will affect you as a liberal. The European Federation of Journalists went one step further. The Secretary-General, Ricardo Gutiérrez, said: "The EU is now fighting propaganda in the same way as Orban and Putin would. It's not happening transparently at all." I repeat, this is not a matter of simplism. There are indeed opponents who are trying to spread disinformation, there is no doubt about that. However, we must be careful not to undermine our own system by fighting its enemies. That is a difficult balancing exercise. What is your view on the decision of President Ursula von der Leyen? How do you respond to the criticism from journalistic and academic circles? Is this really a competence of the European Commission? Is it the responsibility of the European Commission to deny us access to such 'information sources'? What national instruments do you have at your disposal? To what extent do you think it is permissible for this to be used by public authorities to ban channels because they are considered undesirable in substance? With regard to Ukraine, I will confine myself to these questions, because many other issues have already been raised, and I agree with them. I am also very interested in some of your answers to questions from members of the Ecolo Green Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u21	After an hour and a half of questions, Prime Minister, you will have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u22	I shall begin with the answers to your questions, Mr De Roover. The EUR 800 million in question is a commission that has been taken to cover a wide range of effects of the Ukraine crisis. Many of these are effects that can be seen in our country, such as rising inflation. There are also elements that mean direct or indirect support to Ukraine. I think that this has been clarified for a long time. At some point, a certain medium has positioned this amount as aid to Ukraine, although it is actually a commission, a provision, for the overall impact of the Ukraine crisis. That is actually a discussion that dates from almost two months ago. The question you are asking about what you call unwanted channels is indeed not evident, as you yourself say. One may wonder whether a regime that frequently uses censorship should be combated with something that, at least by them, will also be portrayed as censorship. Personally, I am more in favour of facing things and pointing them out. It is true that some of the channels mentioned are used to do disinformation in a very active way. They have only one objective: to destabilise our society. They very often show complete manufacturings that are based on nothing, with the sole aim of creating as much chaos as possible here. It is difficult to give a clear answer to that. My position also rather goes in the direction that one should be very careful before a particular medium is completely silenced. Is it a competence of the European Commission? I assume that when the Commission takes such decisions, it has properly examined whether it is its competence or not. Mr. Lacroix, you asked two questions. With regard to the attitude of the Russian Orthodox Church towards aggression against Ukraine, we note, like you, its unwavering support for the Kremlin theses and for Russian military action in Ukraine, including even in sermons to believers. On the basis of his remarks and those of other prelates of the Russian Orthodox clergy, Patriarch Kirill deserves to be included in the list of persons subject to the sanctions. His name has been circulating publicly for a few weeks already. You will understand that in order to avoid the risk of escape from punishment, it is not for me to decide on this specific individual case before the publication of the sanctions texts in the Official Journal of the European Union. The downgrading and completely intolerant attitude of the Russian Orthodox Church towards LGBTQI people is also totally unacceptable. As you know, Belgium is strongly committed to combating discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. I can therefore assure you that the situation of LGBTQI people in Ukraine as well as in Russia is a major concern of Belgium, closely followed by the SPF Foreign Affairs. With regard to the visit of the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights, Dunja Mijatović, to Ukraine, at the meeting of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on 11 May, our country intervened to welcome the steps and commitments undertaken by the Council of Europe. In this intervention, Belgium strongly condemned the atrocities committed in Ukraine and stressed the importance of ensuring that these crimes do not go unpunished. The fight against conflict-related sexual violence is a priority for Belgium and is particularly relevant in Ukraine. Our country is implementing a fourth national action plan "Women, peace and security", one of the pillars of which is the prevention and fight against conflict-related sexual violence. Mr Francken, you often make interesting statements, and I would like to focus on your statement on the famous howitzers. You said those howitzers were sold for an outrageously low price. I have also established that these howitzers have indeed been sold for 19,000 euros each, as old iron. They were sold in the years 2015-2016. I gotta say, I fell off my chair when I saw that, too. The Minister responsible at the time was your party colleague, Mr Steven Vandeput, who handled the sale without submitting it to the Council of Ministers. I was thinking that I didn't see that pass anywhere. If you have any questions about that sale, then you should actually address him. I find it very surprising, like you, that about equipment being offered today at a ten-fold price, when it was considered that it should be sold as old iron. The reason why we have not gone into it is that we find it difficult to defend such a profit margin. If the equipment was sold at the time for the correct value, then perhaps we were not in that situation today. In any case, Ukraine has made it clear that this material is of interest to them. It might be organized in a different way. It's too bad it turned out that way. Questions were asked about the resources for the Defense Department. I have already spoken in this debate on several occasions, including in Parliament. If we want to be part of a club, with its protection, then we must also make a contribution. Our country can't be a freerider in that. At least as important as the question of how much one spends is the question of how one spends it. That is what our country has been pushing very hard over the last few months. You may have seen that yesterday's Council conclusions and the day before yesterday the element of less fragmentation and more industrial return is being taken over as a European commitment. Our country has played a very important role in this. Thus, the discussion has been widened from quantity to way in which. Of course, the discussion about how much resources are made available does not mean that we have to look at it. Mr Francken, as you say, the next NATO summit in Madrid will undoubtedly be an important summit. You also ask questions about the food crisis. There are three solutions to getting the grain from Ukraine, one of which is via Belarus, another through the European countries. However, there are a lot of technical problems to do so. A third option is via the Black Sea. Belgium has not vetoed one proposal or another, but Belarus wants the sanctions to be lifted in order to allow food to pass, which, of course, cannot be defended. A solution is being worked very actively to obtain the grain from Ukraine. Mr De Vriendt, Ukraine sometimes takes action that crosses Russian borders. Ukraine is trying to secure its sovereignty, now that it is being heavily attacked in a war fought on Ukraine's territory and which Ukraine has not asked for. Ukraine is trying to weaken Russia's ability to be aggressive on Ukrainian territory as much as possible. Ukraine's occasional attack on Russian capabilities on Russian territory is a strategy that can help prevent civilian casualties in Ukraine. Those are the choices Ukraine is making. From that perspective, I can understand those choices. Many of you questioned me on the diplomatic window. Talks are being conducted by President Macron and Chancellor Scholz, but unfortunately the window is narrow enough for now. It would make sense that there are many more possibilities for a conversation. One has to be with two, of course, for a conversation. It is very difficult to have a conversation with someone who does not make a move towards a cease-fire and who is now committing the most brutal war crimes. Unfortunately, therefore, we note that space is currently very limited. I have said many times that a conflict like this will end at the table. I can only hope that people will come to the table soon. Of course, Europe also uses other methods to change the balance of power. Today we see that a diplomatic solution is only possible if the balance of power has changed so that it becomes more attractive for someone to come to the table than not to come to the table. The set of sanctions plays an important role in this. Some of you have spoken about accelerating renewable energy. One of the things we are facing is that over the past few decades, Europe has become very dependent on Russian energy. That's an evolution, that hasn't been a decision from two years ago. This is the result of a series of decisions that have been taken in this direction. If we want to reduce our energy dependence, investing in renewable energy is the logical choice. This is about technologies in which European countries are strong. That's what makes it less dependent. Some have indicated that there is a cost involved. That's right. There's a cost to that. However, if we sell the cost of renewable energy today at the current cost of fossil fuels and also at the cost of dependence on fossil fuels, then it is a no-brainer that needs to be invested more in renewable energy. So accelerating Fit for 55 is, in my view, absolutely the right strategy. Renewable energy is the only energy source that is cheaper year after year because of the technological progress that is still being made in this area. A number of Members have said that an oil embargo is a partial embargo. I disagree. This is an embargo at 93 % of the volume that is being reduced from Russia. Supposing this is a partial embargo is not correct. It is not 100 %-embargo, indeed, but when the embargo passes 90 %, it gets very wide. Is it true that it is claimed that the embargo is the result of blackmail by a number of countries? I don't see it that way. There has been no blackmail from these three countries. These are three countries which, if the embargo had been implemented directly, would no longer have access to fuels in the very short term. I cannot imagine that the European Union would take a decision, which would mean that three Member States would no longer have access to a product that is essential for their functioning. That is, frankly, a naive argument. The fact that Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic have advocated a temporary exception is the logic itself. There was no short-term alternative. There is no short-term alternative to supplying these countries with trucks, for example. We can't do that with ships because it's landlocked. So I saw that there was no alternative but to grant these countries a certain transitional period. The Slovak Prime Minister made this clear today in an interview. He has stated that by 2025 he will be able to fully untie himself. The deadline is a qualitative one. It has been explained that these countries are given time to adapt the pipelines and make investments to adapt their refining capacity to non-Russian oil. It has been agreed that the European Commission will monitor this. Slovakia declares that it will succeed by 2025. I trust that this deadline will be comparable for the other countries. It has been very clearly agreed that mechanisms can be used to avoid an uneven playing field. For example, for countries with a pipeline that can be used if the Russian pipeline is cut off, a levy can be introduced to ensure equal prices. I wouldn't underestimate the impact of the decision taken. We often disagree with Hungary, less with the Czech Republic and Slovakia, but we should not look at the exception for those countries in this way. It is an exception for which, unfortunately, there was no alternative. These three countries together have more than 20 million inhabitants. It is difficult to deny them access to fuel. Mrs Van Bossuyt, you yourself state that the Netherlands and Denmark are companies in which the government is part. In our case, it's not. Companies must comply with the sanctions agreed by the European Union. I assume that private companies comply with the agreed rules. It is up to the European Commission to monitor this. As a government, we are not involved in the purchase of energy. We can definitely support an acceleration of Fit for 55. Fit for 55 was needed to reduce our emissions, but it also shows how much it is necessary at geopolitical level to invest massively in renewable energy. Last week's North Sea Summit is an example of how we can tackle this as European countries and how a country with a very limited coastline like Belgium can play a leading role, especially in the field of technology. In order to get more details on the gas cut-off plan, I suggest that you ask questions about this to the Minister for Energy. This was presented in spring and published in the Belgian Official Journal. Many of you have asked questions about how to manage the application for EU membership from Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia. This subject was not discussed at the present Council, but it will be discussed at the next Council which will take place within three weeks. I've given my position on that several times. In my view, there are four elements that are interconnected. One is the status these countries would have. I am in favour of seeing that non-binary and not falling into some sort of vocabulary discussion about one or the other. I think we should look at how we are moving Ukraine in our direction. The same applies to Moldova. Georgia is, in my view, a different situation. What is more important in the short term, that is the second element, is the reconstruction in the field of equipment and in the field of intangibles. Mr Dallemagne, you say that I would have said that conducting the discussion on reconstruction was not something to be mentioned now. It's because I didn't speak well. That is not the case at all. Of course, this is a discussion to be conducted now but it is true that implementation will not take place immediately. It is true that we must now think about how to do it. I am talking about physical but also immaterial reconstruction in relation to institutions and the fight against corruption. That is the second issue for me. The third issue is that we need to talk about the Western Balkans. We must make sure that his system is consistent. We could introduce a number of new elements. It is seen that the Western Balkan countries are in a process that is taking a long time, and there is a reason why it is taking a long time. One of the concepts that they can introduce is that you should not have a decline: in the process one takes steps forward. Countries are treated in a certain way as long as they make progress. Countries that have candidate status but do not make progress, or even take steps backwards, should, in my view, be able to be treated differently from those that are at a pace to meet the conditions. A fourth element is that when we have this discussion, we must also talk about the functioning of the Union. With the countries discussed, it is in the long term, but if we move towards a European Union that would become bigger, then we will change the nature of it. A number of decision-making procedures that we know today will in my view become unworkable. Those four cases, I think you should discuss them with each other. The Commission will be a subject that we will be discussing at the Council within three weeks. The biggest mistake to make would be that we lose ourselves in some sort of zero-one discussion, namely one or the other. I can imagine that one is rather orienting towards something that would be conditional. That seems to me to be a logical position for our country. Mr Cogolati, with regard to the embargo and the transitional period, Slovenia referred to 2025. The Slovenian Prime Minister said that if he could, he would do it now. Honestly, I think it's the same for everyone. If physically this is not possible, one cannot put a country in total shortage of fuel. You're talking about a fair transition and I agree with you. With current energy prices, investing in renewable energy seems more attractive than ever. I can only appeal to all governments to strengthen support for the population in this transition to renewable energy, for example in their housing; the federal level does not have much expertise in this area. The financial attractiveness of investments in renewable energy is and will remain very high. With regard to food security, we are faced with toxic disinformation campaigns. We discussed this during the Summit. As European countries, we must have a much more proactive strategy. For example, Russia is trying to explain in Africa that sanctions are the cause of the food crisis. But the food crisis is caused by the Russian war. There is no other reason for this food crisis. There is no connection with sanctions. Wheat cannot get out of Odessa because the situation has become so dangerous. It is rather cynical: Russia has announced hundreds of millions of vaccines for African countries, and less than five million have been delivered. While Europe, among other things with VOCAX, has made a huge effort. No part of the world did so much during the crisis of the covid-19. It is essential to better explain Europe's efforts. Mrs Ponthier, you asked exactly how the ceiling would work. It is up to the Commission to work that out. I note that all the countries at the European Council today supported the fact that the European Commission is finally going to work out that stick behind the door, where we were relatively alone in Versailles. In my eyes, a stick behind the door is something one should not use, but should have done. One has to be credible to ensure that it can create an impact. The debate on refugees was not part of yesterday's Council. As far as macroeconomic liquidity of 9 billion is concerned, no agreement has yet been reached on how it will be financed. The Commission will make a proposal to this effect. As regards food safety, food security and the potential impact on migratory flows, our first priority is to ensure that there is sufficient food. Today there is no problem with insufficient nutrition. The food is there, the difficulty is just to get it on the spot. From the European Union, our main priority is to ensure that this can be released in all ways. Secretary-General Guterres has also personally committed himself to this. Some of you have asked a question about the accession of Finland and Sweden. Mrs Rohonyi, Belgium welcomes the fact that Sweden and Finland want to become partners of NATO. A discussion is under way with Turkey. If we look at the stakes, namely security in Europe, I cannot imagine that we cannot find a solution to the points that Turkey has raised. The stakes of securing the European continent are different in scope than those put forward by Turkey. As to whether this can be done quickly, there is a ratification procedure that needs to be followed. As soon as possible, Parliament will have to deal with this ratification. Meanwhile, both countries have signed agreements to be protected during this transitional period, which could be short, at least I hope. Mr De Maegd, as I have already had the opportunity to say, it would be good to implement the sixth package, certainly in relation to energy. It seems to me to be much more complicated for gas because of the nature of the infrastructure. We are at some point today and we do not see why we should already develop a seventh package of measures and certainly not in the field of energy. The freezing of assets and measures against people is something else. To confiscate Russian funds, we need a legal basis. From a technical point of view, it is easier to negotiate when you have something in hand. I am rather in favour of this, but the legal basis must be sufficiently stable. As regards defence and reasoning for industrial cooperation projects, the Commission will have to come with the right instruments. To carry out joint industrial projects in the field of defence is not new and we have already done so. Rather, the question is whether these projects have been successful. There have been good and bad experiences. I fully agree to organize it differently than in the past. Mr De Vuyst, the question I am asking about the point you are making is whether you would rather not have had sanctions. You have to give me an answer to that. Mr Dallemagne, I think you said that I said that sanctions could not have an impact. No, we know very well that the sanctions taken have an impact on our people. The whole question is how to minimize this impact. That the impact exists is clear, otherwise it would make no sense. Mr De Vuyst, you say that this has an impact. That is correct, but so far the impact on energy prices has not been sanctioned. So far, there have been no sanctions on energy except for coal from the Donbas. It is now the first time that sanctions will take place at the end of the year, but energy prices have not been increased by sanctions. Energy prices have risen as a result of the war and the uncertainty associated with it. That's the only reason the prices have gone up. You know that we have released huge sums of money to protect our people as well as possible. What's the point? The intention is never regime change. That was never the intention of our country or of the European Union. We have one intention, namely that Ukraine can restore its sovereignty. In the end, it will be Ukraine that will have to decide for itself whether it can agree to the peace agreement or not. That choice will be made by Ukraine and not by us. I have heard some talk about regime change in Russia, but that is absolutely not our objective. Mrs. Liekens, you mentioned rape as a weapon. Unfortunately, we're seeing that again. It's a weapon of war used throughout the world. It has devastating effects on those who have to endure it and on everyone who has to deal with it. Our country has used resources to ensure that such war crimes are documented and analysed and that perpetrators can be prosecuted. The difficulties you are raising with Poland are something that is under investigation. In principle, there is such a possibility. In any case, combating sexual violence as a weapon of war is very high on the agenda of our foreign policy. We have also asked Poland what problems there are. Belgium has already brought back several children. We recently recovered a group of 63 children. We have also brought back people with very heavy disabilities. We make a lot of efforts, but of course it's never enough at times like this. We're trying to do the maximum. At times of war, it is the weakest who suffer the most: people with disabilities or women and children often share the hardest blows. Mrs Reynaert, you raised the question of how to ensure that there can be no competitive disadvantage. That was specifically discussed at the Council yesterday. It should be avoided that countries using their derogation procedure would have access to cheaper oil than those that do not use that exception procedure. That shipping insurance ban is effective, but apparently 90% of Russian oil tankers are insured in the UK or in the United States. I know that the United Kingdom is currently examining what it can do about this and the impact would seem to be considerable. I have already spoken out on the seventh sanction package. What is the end of the sanctions? As I have already indicated, this will be partly up to the Ukrainians. We must assume that the sanctions already in place will apply for a long time. All we do to make ourselves less dependent on Russia in a structural way and to be less vulnerable to sanctions is investment. We should not only work with short-term measures. I believe that these long-term measures are necessary. We're looking into what's possible for the demining. Can we do this in a safe way? Our mining operations are under Defense. If our army were to operate in the Black Sea, they would cross the border through which they would participate in the conflict. That would have all kinds of consequences, making us careful. Mr Dallemagne, you have asked what Belgium has paid for oil and gas to Russia in recent months. I don't have the numbers. I asked for them, but we couldn't find them. However, I think this is a good question to ask in order to put our action in perspective. How is the impact assessed? One of the impacts is the asset freeze. Belgium can count it quite easily since we operate this freeze. For Euroclear, we were talking about volumes that went beyond the EUR 20 billion frozen in Belgium. As far as our diplomats in Kiev are concerned, you have already asked the question in plenary meeting recently. For the moment, we believe that a reopening is necessary, but both to show our support for Ukraine, as well as for other countries, and to facilitate and fluidise our interaction with the Ukrainian government. This will also allow us to benefit from a new analysis of the situation. If we have services on site, we will be able to read the situation better. An exploratory mission visited the site last week to prepare for the arrival of our diplomatic personnel in satisfactory security conditions. The relevant departments are working to allow for reopening as soon as possible. The aim is to achieve a gradual restoration of our embassy in Kiev. We start with a small team in order to prepare for the return of a full team in the long term. But it must be clear: we will only do so if security is really guaranteed. As far as consular assistance is concerned, we are providing it through our services in Warsaw for the time being. As far as the objective and strategy are concerned, I think I have spoken. I also talked about reconstruction. When we talk about economic sovereignty, we always have to be careful. Some countries are known for which European sovereignty often translates into national sovereignty. Indeed, in this discussion I am naturally also in favour of greater European sovereignty, but we must be careful that this does not run counter to the internal market. Indeed, for a country like Belgium, the functioning of the European market is very important. We are one of the countries that benefit most. Often, in these discussions of economic sovereignty, exceptional measures are sometimes taken in relation to state aid. In this case, we know that it is often the big countries that win because they just have pockets deeper than ours. So it has always been a priority for us to balance the two. Mrs Rohonyi, I think that in relation to what you have called the blackmail of Hungary, I agree. You probably know the country better than I do, but I've never seen it like that. In that case, Hungary, like Slovakia and the Czech Republic, had a real problem. The whole question is that of this transitional period which must be limited and this has been well explained, qualitatively, in the texts. Unfair competition must be avoided. In relation to violence and refugees, from the beginning, we are aware that there is a risk. Together with other countries, we have put in place many mechanisms to be able to detect and do a lot of prevention in this regard. I know that in our reception centre at Heysel, procedures have been implemented in this regard. As far as Finland and Sweden are concerned, I have already answered the rest of the questions in this fairly broad first round.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u23	Thank you for the comprehensive answer. I propose to keep the replies short, up to 2 minutes, but shorter, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u24	Thank you for your answers, Prime Minister. Firstly, with regard to the accelerated implementation of Fit for 55 and the additional costs involved and which you consider fully justified. I also heard Mr Cogolati say that we need one transition socially. I believe that this will be very difficult, especially if Belgium does not continue to invest in nuclear energy. Delaying the decision on the longer-term opening of nuclear power stations has been a very serious mistake, Mr Prime Minister. With regard to the payment in roubles, you say that you assume that the companies from whom we purchase this energy will comply with the sanctions. The facts show that this is not the case. The Italian company Eni has already admitted that, while Engie refuses to answer the question. As far as enlargement is concerned, you say that it does not necessarily have to be one or the other. Do you then take the view that, among other things, the French President, Mr Macron, is suggesting that we should not consider membership but a different kind of cooperation? We already have several: neighbourhood policy, eastern partnership and so on. Finally, we must not forget that one of the Copenhagen criteria is that the European Union itself must be able to include new members. You then probably allude to "unanimity versus qualified majority." I do not think that we should necessarily give up sovereignty, but above all we should be very careful when it comes to enlargement. The debate on deepening versus expanding certainly deserves our attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u25	Madam President, first of all, allow me to apologize to the Prime Minister. Indeed, the chaotic organisation of this Assembly is very special today, with the vote on the allocation on the one hand and a joint meeting of the Federal Advisory Committee on European Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the other. This is not a serious way to work! That being said, Prime Minister, I have partly heard your answers. Can you tell me whether there has been some discussion at some point about the risk of transferring funds to Africa for the reconstruction of Ukraine? Indeed, we must remain attentive to this question because, in order to take up your comments which I fully agree with, it is a shared fear. It will therefore be necessary to ensure that the situation does not deteriorate. On the other hand, Mr. De Maegd was moved by the murder of a journalist in Ukraine. He proposed that action be taken following the assassination of members of the press in general. I would remind you that we are still waiting for a response from the Israeli Foreign Ministry to your letter to ask what he intended to do following the assassination of the Palestinian journalist. There are no double standards. These assassinations are outrageous and intolerable. Please take a new initiative for this, as Mr. De Maegd, you are moved by these assassinations with the various actors! As far as Defence is concerned, we are only at the beginning of the process. We will probably still have a lot of discussions on this. But at some point, as you said, we will have to take measures in a balanced and comprehensive manner. That's the voice of wisdom!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u26	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answers, but we are still in the dark in a number of areas. After all, you say that it is still necessary to define which price-capping spree will be drawn up and you do not answer the question of what the Belgian attitude will be. That is not clear at all. We also believe that the slope of alternatives to Russian fossil fuels is underexplored. The other candidates who are jumping, such as the Gulf States, Iran and Venezuela, to name but a few, do not seem to be more consistent with our values or security interests than Russia. We must be careful not to make the wrong decision. You have also mentioned the increase in defence expenditure, but as expected you do not give much clarity. You reiterate your position on this, which you have already expressed in the media, but we all know that the government is far from being able to land in that discussion. That discussion still needs to be held. With regard to the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO, you are talking about Turkey's potential veto. Personally, I do not think it will be a veto, but of course Turkey is already pushing up its price in all kinds of areas. Of course, blackmail practices are not strange to President Erdogan. We have already seen this in various dossiers, and that is what we are seeing here. We shall see what it will bring. A number of parts of your answer still require the necessary follow-up. Our group will look into the practical implementation of this. There is no plan for migratory flows either. It was not discussed either, but I hope that will be discussed in three weeks' time. It will all be followed up in the coming weeks and months.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u27	Prime Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answers in general. Nevertheless, I have to put a few flats on the question of Russian oil. I had indeed drawn your attention to the emergence of possible distortions of competition within our common market. As far as the energy transition is concerned, is this acceleration - which I welcome - comparable to our economic and administrative fabric, since permits will have to be granted? You didn't answer me about that. I said that this could lead to a two-speed Europe, since some countries whose economies are not as resilient or innovative as ours could be penalized. It's important to pay attention to it. With regard to wheat and the food crisis that might arise in some parts of the world, Belgium should be able to play a central role through the submission of a resolution to the United Nations Security Council. Again, I invite you to be proactive. I also understand that the issue of mine clearance is a sensitive one at the moment, but our expertise is internationally recognized. That is why I believe that we could move forward to help Ukraine clear the areas that were mined during this conflict and that will still be mined. And then, as Mr Flahaut mentioned, I confess that I was quite surprised, Prime Minister, not to hear you strongly condemn the murders of journalists. In a hundred days, eight were victims in Ukraine. I would just like to remind you that, during the previous Parliament in December 2017, the House had passed a resolution with numerous requests to the government. The first of them called on the government to "condemn the deliberate attacks against journalists, media personnel and associated personnel during armed conflict." In my view, a silence from our country - a fortiori from the European Union - when journalists are murdered in the theatre of military operations, in this case in Ukraine, is an inaudible silence, excuse me for telling you. I therefore invite you, of course, to take a position on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u28	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I would like to deal with three points. You asked what the Labour Party would propose and whether we would not be in favour of sanctions. Yes, we are in favour of sanctions. In the sense that we find - very clear, very consistent and very coherent - that if international law is violated, if country A attacks country B, if country A occupies country B, if country A colonises country B, sanctions must be taken. We believe that the international community must accept its responsibility, as has been the case for the Palestinian people for 55 years and for the Israeli State which has failed to comply with international law. We believe that sanctions should be applied in both cases. Like us, the sanctions are not targeted enough today. We have made a constructive proposal to hit the oligarchs more than the working population, which is now being affected. We have also proposed that a financial register be established to make the assets visible in all European tax havens where those oligarchs retain a large part of their financial assets. But they refused to do so. We are very sorry about that. Once again, we believe that there is a imbalance. We want to hit the oligarchs and Putin, but we actually see that the sanctions that are now being taken will make the collateral damage much greater. Prime Minister, you also said that sanctions have no impact on the price of energy. I'm sorry, but the moment the sixth sanction package was announced, oil prices have risen. Thijs Van de Graaf, Professor of International Politics, confirmed not so long ago in De Afslag that this will have a negative effect, including on fuel prices. We have seen the announcement, the petrol price has risen again. You said just now, and I think that for a liberal, the market has become irrational. I'm glad you said that. You also said the government should intervene. Well, we have a concrete proposal, ensure that excise duties on fuels are reduced to a normal level or even abolished, in order to protect the population if sanctions continue. You also spoke of a regime change. We are not in favour of a regime change, that is true. I have never said that we or the European Union are in charge of this either, but the United States. That is why I said that we must be careful not to go to further escalation, to a further escalation of the conflict, because the interests of the United States are different from that of Europe, and that of our country. Finally, Prime Minister, you also said that the window for diplomatic negotiations is very small, whether it is just a crack. However, you yourself said that it must end at some point at the negotiating table. That's right. In that sense, I would like to quote Jeremy Corbyn, former Labour leader and also peace activist: "Why don't we cut out the fighting zone and go directly to the talking zone?" That is what we must continue to try, even though the circumstances are very difficult. That is the narrative we want to continue to give. Because what's the alternative? The message we are sending is that we will continue with this regime of sanctions, economic warfare, and continue to supply weapons, with a potential threat of escalation and an even greater food crisis, worldwide. It is true that Russia is responsible for the supply lines, and that access to food, to grain, is prevented by Russian aggression in Ukraine. But the sanctions also ensure that Russia is no longer in a position to export cereals. This was confirmed at a coalition against hunger hearing, including by a representative of the World Food Agency. This is to say that sanctions, counter-reactions, further military escalation, ultimately offer us no prospects. That is why we are calling for the spirit of Helsinki 1975 to be restored. We must invest much more political capital in this cooperative security, the OSCE. I would therefore regret the fact that a new European capital Helsinki will become a member of NATO. I would be very sorry to do that, because we need to resuscitate Helsinki as the capital in order to bring Russia to the table in the long term and build a new inclusive peace architecture based on that cooperative security. We must continue to work on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u29	Madam President, Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. Quickly, a few reactions. On the impact of sanctions, you tell us that we can measure this in particular by the funds that are frozen at Euroclear. While I am pleased that these funds are frozen, given the importance of these funds, I do not think that this is an impact measure. What would be a measure of impact is whether the war effort is decreasing as a result of this sanction. Are fewer civilians killed? Are there any consequences, for example, for the Russian people's accession to this war? That is what we must try to measure. I know it's complicated, but I think it's still the political exercise we have to do with these sanctions. I have always been in favour of these sanctions, but of course we have to take stock of them at some point and see what types of sanctions are the most effective. I'm paying attention to that. For me, the example you cite is not really a measure of the impact of sanctions. On the other hand, I am pleased that you are saying that diplomatic representation is required. That's the term you used. I'm glad. She's been a long time old. You mentioned the reasons why this representation should be put in place as soon as possible. You didn't give a date. I regret that, since there was an exploratory mission last week. I imagined that following this exploratory mission, you could have given a date. You said that all guarantees must be met. They'll never be, I can tell you. They'll never be. But in the meantime, Kiev has not been bombed for weeks, and all diplomatic representations are here. Yeah, there's always a little risk taking. We need a light team. We need a mobile team. Yeah, but we need a team on the spot. I believe that this condition of full guarantees will never be fulfilled. So it's better to say it, and we won't have diplomatic representation. On the application for membership of the European Union, you tell us: "Be careful, we must not play with words." I think that reminds me of the Minister of Defence who this morning told us that we should not be fetishists on the 2%. It's a way of drowning fish. No, words are important in politics. You know that. The issue of Ukraine's application for membership is a key political issue. Ukraine attaches great importance to this. She paid a very heavy price for this. This extremely important issue is now on the table. It's not about playing with words. It is not a question of opposing the revision of the way the European Union works, which you have indicated. I think we have to do both at the same time, i.e. there must be some kind of double track. To accept this application for membership of the European Union and, at the same time, to make the observation that it will indeed be necessary to change the rules of operation of the European Union. But this candidacy is a very important political signal, expected by the Ukrainians. In fact, we encouraged her. On 8 April, Ursula von der Leyen sent very officially the form by which the first steps for this application for membership were made possible. All of a sudden, in the middle of the ford, we should not change our mind. In fact, I do not understand the logic, except to give guarantees to Putin, who in any case is not close to that and does not take this type of element into account in his analysis and his willingness to conquer the Ukrainian territories. With regard to NATO's candidacy and Turkey's blackmail, Turkey, which is clearly strong in its capacity, has blocked the candidacy of Finland and Sweden and is already taking a number of steps. In particular, it is conducting an offensive in northern Syria, which seems to leave everyone indifferent. I have not heard many protests from NATO, and certainly not from Belgium. Yet this offensive is ongoing, killing civilians and killing our allies against terrorism, the Kurds in northern Syria. They should not bear the costs of what is really like blackmail in Turkey today. We still have security interests in northern Syria, as citizens are held there by Kurds. In addition, we have very important geostrategic interests. If these Kurds were to be defeated and expelled from the territories they occupy today, the beneficiaries would be Iran, Russia and Syria of Bashar al-Assad. So be careful what is happening there and on which we close our eyes because we think we have security interests elsewhere. Our interests are also important in this part of the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u30	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer, although we do not really have the same reading grid on the sixth package of sanctions against Russia. You tell us that today the derogation granted to the three countries (Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary) is in no way the result of a blackmail allegedly made by Mr Orban. I don't have that same reading grid at all. I can quite understand that it would have been more than complicated to suddenly deprive these countries of Russian oil because there is no alternative in the short term. But what are the alternatives to which these countries can go in the medium term? I understand that Slovakia has made a commitment to move towards these alternatives by 2023. But what about the other two countries? What we are missing today, in my view, is to ensure that this derogation, which is now supposedly temporary, does not ultimately become permanent. It really has to be avoided. For this, it is essential to be able to ensure a real monitoring, as has been put forward by you, which is regular on the efforts actually made by these three countries to liberate themselves as quickly as possible from Russian gas. When we see the very close links between Mr Orban and Mr Putin and the way in which Mr Orban systematically circumvents European funds in his own interest to the detriment of the general interest, I do allow myself to raise more than doubts. In this way, in carrying out this monitoring, we could give ourselves the opportunity to see whether these countries are actually encountering difficulties and, at that time, to take measures of support, in particular, to enable these countries to adapt their infrastructure, in particular their refinery plants, which, as I said, must be absolutely modernised in order to accommodate oil other than Russian oil. On the issue of the Russian gas embargo, I can fully understand that the priority today is to ensure the implementation of the oil embargo without penalising households - that is fundamental - and that this embargo is very difficult to achieve. However, the question still arises as to whether this option has been seriously studied, knowing that it is ultimately this embargo that will particularly hurt Mr Putin's portfolio. Today, we are not without leads. There are other partner countries to which we can turn. There is also biogas produced in Europe. I hope that we will be able to study these avenues quickly. With regard to the human rights component of Ukrainian refugees in their host countries, you seem to have become aware of this problem and I thank you for that. Ukrainians do not flee the war for further violations of their rights in those countries that are supposed to protect them! I regret the few actions that give concrete expression to this commitment and will on your part. Apart from the infringement procedures launched against Poland for the non-respect of women's and LGBT rights, there is a need for measures to support civil society, which is fighting for respect for its human rights and those of Ukrainian refugees. I hope that the support given to associations when Poland tightened its abortion legislation can be sustained in the very short term. It's fundamental.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u31	Among other things, the Prime Minister said that the howitzers were sold cheaply after all. That wouldn't have passed the Council of Ministers. I also contacted the Minister responsible at the time. So we'll find out. I will also take a good look at the sales price of the M109s in 2008 under Mr De Crem and in 1999 under Mr Flahaut to Brazil. Then we know very well what's going on with the market evolution of that weaponry. That is important. I will also find out who was in the government and who led the government. It seems interesting to me to know whether the Council of Ministers was consulted at the time. We'll look into that in the next few hours, because those are interesting things. What I understand, Prime Minister, is that you want to go to 1.8 % by 2030 and to 2% by 2035. I read that in Le Soir today. In any case, I think you absolutely must bring that in. You say that it is not just about the percentage, but also about the way in which it is achieved. That is obvious, of course. On the other hand, I understand that you are also committed to the European story. In itself, I have no problem with more European cooperation on procurement and development and inter-operability. We'll find a consensus on that. However, it would be a shame if it became an anti-American story. I hear Mrs Dedonder say that buying non-European heavy helicopters is not an option. We have a European aircraft, the MH90, but that is not a great success. This took a lot of money when buying and now costs a lot of money and time for maintenance. It's to cry. That is an Airbus European aircraft. She says we're gonna renew that and make sure the maintenance duration is shorter. However, we are going to buy a European aircraft again anyway, so the American Chinooks are not eligible. I've read this statement. Is that your opinion, too? That's important to know, isn't it? I think we should always try to look at arms purchases with an open eye. After a very thorough investigation and analysis with the government, of which you were a member, Mr Vandeput decided to buy the F-35. That's just the best plane. Let us do the same when it comes to heavy helicopters and not always say that they can only be European-made. I hope you won't get caught up in that. As for the howitzers, I read between the lines that the Ukrainians bought them. At least you can contact the Ukrainian embassy today to see if we can help transport those howitzers to Ukraine. That's the least we can do, if we're not prepared to buy them because there's supposed to be too big an interval between buying and selling. I will put further questions on this, because I really want to know what the situation is. I think that there is a role for the Flemish level. I have already been in contact with colleagues in the Flemish government. That export licence must be delivered in good time. It must not be delayed, because that equipment is now needed in the Donets Basin and we must give them that export licence. Finally, as far as the grain corridor is concerned, I understand better what you meant by not vetoing Belarus. I support 100% that you do not respond to what they asked for in return, namely a lifting of sanctions. However, Ukraine remains the grain barn, the food barn, so I hope that if there is no diplomatic solution, we can still go to an operation in the Black Sea. I don't see any other solution. We must also be prepared to provide our expertise in the field of mine control over decades. Mr Prime Minister, I wish you every success in the coming weeks in the debate on 2%. You simply have to refer to the Bible of this vivaldi government, which is the coalition agreement. That is entirely on your side, which is not always the case. You are simply referring to the European non-nuclear defence average by 2030, and if the Greens are not paying attention, it may even be above 2%. That's all you have to do. Because of circumstances, you have the coalition agreement on your side. Go for it and if you need votes to get that 2 % through, you have my phone number.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic803x.u32	If there are no further elements of reply, I propose that the debate be closed.
