ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u2	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Servais Verherstraeten, Hervé Rigot, Gilles Vanden Burre, Tim Vandenput, Wouter De Vriendt, Nathalie Gilson, Melissa Depraetere.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u3	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u4	Madam Chair, these are the bills that have been joined, the bills of the House of Commons. Servais Verherstraeten, Hervé Rigot, Gilles Vanden Burre, Wouter De Vriendt and Mrs Nathalie Gilson and Melissa Depraetere, repealing the law of 11 February 2022 confirming the royal decree of 27 January 2022 declaring the continuation of the epidemic emergency concerning the coronavirus pandemic Covid-19, number 2525/1, and the bill of Peter De Roover, Joy Donné, Yngvild Ingels, Sigrid Goethals, Frieda Gijbels, Kathleen Depoorter, Koen Metsu, Theo Francken, Björn Anseew and Peter Buysrogge ending the epidemic emergency, number 2524/1. MM. Verherstraeten and De Roover presented the subject of their respective proposals. The committee unanimously decided to adopt Bill 2525 as the basic text. While all the members who spoke during the discussion welcomed the end of the state of epidemic emergency, Mr. De Roover, Mrs Matz and Mr Boukili, for their part, repeated the criticisms they had already expressed on numerous occasions concerning the Pandemia Act. Ms Gilson recalled the unprecedented parliamentary process that led to the adoption of the Pandemic Act and strengthened control over the measures taken by the government. Mr. De Roover recalled that the favourable development of the epidemiological situation was already evident last February, but that this did not prevent the majority from confirming the continuation of the epidemic emergency situation. He also noted that Mr Verherstraeten's bill had been tabled when the opinions of the advisory bodies had not yet been communicated to Parliament, which might suggest that the content of those opinions was already known even before they had been drafted. Mr. Verherstraeten replied that he had only requested the inclusion of his bill after the notice had been sent to the House. During the discussion of the articles, Mr Verherstraeten presented Amendments Nos 1 and 2, tabled in response to a legal remark by the House services. The Royal Decree of 27 January 2022, confirmed by the Act of 11 February 2022, has the force of law. The repeal of the law of confirmation is therefore not sufficient to deprive this royal decree of its effects. The amendments therefore supplement the proposed law with a provision abrogating the Royal Decree of 27 January 2022. The articles, Amendments Nos 1 and 2 were successively adopted unanimously. The whole of Bill 2525/1 was adopted unanimously by a nominative vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the reporter for her oral report. That was necessary, of course, because we did not hold the session until yesterday and there was some urgency involved, as this House judged before the recess. As you know, the basis of what is happening here is the law on the epidemic emergency that a majority of this house has activated for three months. Not so long ago it was reactivated for three months. We're in that period now. We all walk around here without any concern and without a mouth mask. The room is completely open again. We're almost stacked on top of each other and meet in the walkways. But we must not lose sight of the fact that we are in the epidemic. It almost suggests that the Consultative Committee is made up of irresponsible figures who have pushed us into yellow prematurely. You will say that I am guilty of a form of exaggeration, but the assessment of the situation is done, according to the law, on the basis of expert advice. An important opinion comes from the RAG, the Risk Assessment Group. A few weeks ago, when we received the government's proposal to extend the epidemic for another three months, I read out the report at the time because I thought it was slightly alarmist. But we received another report on 28 February 2022. Mr Verherstraeten, you denied in committee that you ordered it. After all, this has suddenly come down shortly after your legislative proposal. There are four criteria that the law sets out to assess whether we are in an epidemic emergency. Who amazes me when I read that the RAG considers that the criteria A, C and D are still being met. There is, of course, a favourable evolution. Let's not panic. Although there is an improvement for criterion B, the pressure on the healthcare sector remains high. The RAG therefore still considers the epidemiological situation to be worrying. "In a context of rapid easing of the measure, giving the public the impression that the pandemic is behind us, with a still high circulation of the virus, so that we could stick on a high plateau and get a flare-up to a next wave much faster. The emergence of new potentially more serious variants remains uncertain. A relaxation of national coordination is recommended only in an epidemiological context of level 1 where virus circulation is under control, which is not yet the case." End quote, signed by a series of experts that we have regularly seen appear in the media in the past few months. If you read this carefully, you will realize that there is still a great deal of doubt as to whether we should actually proceed with the lifting of the epidemiological emergency, or whether we are not too quick. A human being would be tempted, despite the reserves I have always had against this technique, to say: are we not getting ahead of ourselves here too quickly? But there is also the Coronac Commissariat. The Coronac Commissioner has read this text in such a way that, in conjunction with the Minister for Health, as the legislation provides, it believes that today we can rest assured that tomorrow, 11 March, the epidemiological situation would have passed. That means that this House is finally taking back its full powers. Why these slightly ironic remarks from me? I would actually like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that we have adopted a pandemic law which gives rise to fickleness, to greyness, to unclearness, and which, if you wish, ladies and gentlemen, still offers arguments to prolong the epidemic situation until today. Perhaps to some amazement or amazement in the outside world, we would soon be able to decide by a majority. This is a law that can always be applied in all directions. So it's a bad law. We are actually witnessing the application of a bad law here. Now you will say: the debate today is no longer about the law as such, the discussion is about whether the conditions are still met. Do you remember the debate two or three weeks ago, when the government said it heard everything from the Chair, but is the conditions of the legislation fulfilled? To date, we cannot really say 100% that this is no longer fulfilled. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be out of here shortly. I assume that voting will not change in relation to the committee yesterday. As far as I'm concerned, we'll never activate that law again. I would even suggest that, with the experience we have today, we refer that law to the scrap heap as soon as possible. This is a thing. This is a gambler. This is something that everyone can interpret at random in one direction or another. Today we happen to be in a situation where it would be awesome to prolong that epidemiological emergency. No one would understand that. However, according to the law as it is available to us, we could still decide today to continue it. This law brings with it a great deal of uncertainty. She limits our home to establishing what the Minister of Health, in consultation with the Corona Secretariat, is presenting as an interpretation of the Risk Assessment Group's report. We have to listen to that and then decide, like last time, to press the green button to add another three months. Today we have no choice but to press the green button to establish that it can be terminated prematurely. Ladies and gentlemen, of course we are going to vote in favour. This is a bad law, so its application is also bad. With the adoption of the legislative proposal, Parliament will regain full power. That is a very important matter of principle. Against the backdrop of the brutal application of the legislation, I would like to ask the following question. Ladies and gentlemen, should we not now consider, after this experience, beyond the limits of majority and opposition, that this thing, the source of today's debate, should disappear as such? My group will vote in favour today and will vote in favour of the proposal that we are going to table to abolish this law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u6	Madam Chair, I find it difficult to find the right tone to comment on this bill tonight because obviously we want to rejoice, but the particularly heavy and worrying context does not really allow us to say that we are going to find carelessness at the same time as spring. It is not obvious to celebrate the return of our freedoms when the freedoms of others are so severely trampled at the foot for the time being. However, I don't think we should be completely squandering our pleasure either. After two years, it is still good to see that at least here, things are moving in the right direction. It is good to see that the evolution of the epidemic situation allows us today to make the reverse of what we did last fall to declare the epidemic emergency and, again in early February, to prolong it. Now, the cumulative criteria that are included in the Pandemic Act are no longer met. It is therefore a matter of bringing an end to the epidemic emergency and, consequently, the lifting of numerous administrative police measures. Yes, we find a lot of freedoms, a lot of things that we have missed for the past two years, and we obviously have a special thought for all the professions that have experienced such difficult conditions during the pandemic. As far as we are concerned, we are a number of colleagues sitting here today for the first time in the place assigned to us with our name in a full Chamber and voting on a screen other than on a screen. This is another experience of deliberative democracy. I must say that this is rather pleasant, but, as Mr De Roover pointed out, of course, it is not a question of putting any caution on the nettles. The situation must continue to be closely monitored, as it is still quite worrying. Covid-19 hasn't disappeared. There must be some common sense in the organization of things and in the interactions for the protection of all. Just now, it must be noted that the virulence, spread and dangerousness of the virus no longer warrants us to maintain restrictive measures. In the provisions of the Pandemic Law, there was this requirement that was very important to us and that we insisted on from the beginning. It was that the duration of the measures should be limited to the strict necessity. And it was repeated again last month when the epidemic emergency situation had been prolonged and, with it, the additional powers given to the government: not a day more than necessary. Today, however, the barometer is yellow. We can repeal this extension law that we took just a few weeks ago, without waiting for the three-month deadline that had been given to the government. The spirit and letter of the Pandemic Law are respected here. I think that's a very good thing. However, I would like to reiterate that the Pandemic Law was not in itself an instrument of restricting the freedoms of citizens. On the contrary, it was a tool that was certainly not perfect but that allowed the government to control its actions in times of epidemic crisis, better than the 2007 Civil Security Act. "The executive is the power that is most likely to invade." These are not my words. It was the words of our first President of the House, Mr de Gerlache, who observed this trend which is obviously exacerbated in times of crisis, where the concerted decision-making processes and Parliament's intervention may seem cumbersome. It is in the light of this natural trend that, for at least a year and a half, environmentalists have been advocating for the continuation or restoration of the democratic debate in the decision on measures to combat the pandemic for greater involvement of parliamentarians. I was able here to plead with other colleagues for the adoption of a legislative framework that would frame the measures taken by the government, which ensured parliamentary scrutiny in the name of the principle of legality, in the name of the public democratic debate but also in the name of the need to increase understanding and adherence to the measures. The frame had been taken. It had been voted. If, today, we can obviously rejoice at having the opportunity to put it aside, it is not totally excluded that it should be activated again in the future. On this subject, Mr De Roover, I will remind you, however, that the Pandemic Law did not say its last word. You may have forgotten it, but there's still one more step. Within three months, the government will have to submit an evaluation report which will address, among other things, proportionality and respect for fundamental rights, with – which is important to us – attention to the fundamental rights of vulnerable individuals and groups who have been able to experience a more difficult or perhaps, in some cases, disproportionate impact of certain measures, because of their particular situation. We look forward to this report with great attention and interest. We expect the government to do this exercise with great seriousness even though we are obviously aware that one crisis is chasing the other and that the situation is very tense for everyone. Nevertheless, it is an exercise that we cannot neglect. We must take this opportunity to take a critical look back, since, if necessary, in the light of the findings and conclusions, amendments can be proposed to this pandemic law in order to better regulate its possible future application. We must be prepared in this regard even if, of course, everyone here hopes that we will never have to mobilise this law again. In conclusion, it goes without saying that we fully support the adoption of this repeal law and that we will push the small green button tonight with great conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u7	Madam President, what to say is that I obviously join my colleague's enthusiasm. A few days ago, the Prime Minister announced at the Consultation Committee that an important page was turning. Indeed, with happiness – which everyone shares – she is turning around. For weeks and months, two years, terrible measures were taken. They were very difficult for our fellow citizens. They imposed themselves, while being painful to take, in order to fight a global pandemic and its consequences for our everyday lives. This virus has caused many victims and has severely hampered the activities of many sectors. Many of our certainties and habits have been fundamentally challenged by this virus. I repeat, none of these measures have been taken with joy. We have all been aware of the need to protect our hospitals and avoid their saturation, to ensure operational health care, and the functioning of essential sectors such as education. This has prompted us to make these decisions that are so difficult, but courageous and necessary. Today, the numbers allow us to blow. However, as my colleagues indicated, the barometer is yellow; it is not yet green. We have a glimmer of hope, we are at the gates of spring, but it is not yet the summer sun. We will still have to remain vigilant in the coming months, but we still have to enjoy our happiness with a new freedom thanks to the efforts made by each of us for so many months. Immunization is and continues to be one of the keys to this success. It will therefore have to continue. She helped us get out of this acute crisis. We will have to continue to adopt several barrier measures, which will allow us to move towards the summer and say goodbye to this damn virus. Vigilance remains, but hope is there. Colleagues, as far as parliamentary work is concerned, I am satisfied that the whole parliamentary review process that we have demanded has been respected. It was provided for in the Pandemic Law and was scrupulously followed. Yesterday, we received the last report, and I hope that there will be no more. Our assembly was particularly active during this period. I thank all the services that have made this work possible under special conditions. It was a hard job. Thank you to all the staff of the various committees, thank you to the staff of the House for their availability at every moment. It was essential in a rule of law. When the figures justified a further extension of the state of pandemic emergency, we said: "There will not be a day too many of this heavy and certainly not insignificant device and we will lift these constraints and prohibitions as soon as the glimmer of hope is back." Today, we can do it with pleasure and happiness. Together with my colleagues, I would like to introduce this text, which aims to remove all these constraints and restore freedom of life. I would also like to commend the work of the women and men who have been at the forefront of this virus. I would also like to have a thought for all the Belgians who have been affected by this virus, whether in terms of their personal health, whether it is the loss of a relative or the socio-economic consequences of this virus on their profession and on their lives. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate the importance of learning from this acute crisis. It is not because it seems to be behind us that we must not fear new pandemics or new crisis situations. The recommendations of the special commission of our Assembly must now be implemented by the executive branch. Once again, we must call for the coherence and legitimacy of the measures that must be scientifically supported in the face of such a pandemic. An essential coherence at the Belgian and European institutional level is necessary. At the most we will ensure that the decisions taken are legitimate, consistent and understandable, as much as our fight against coronavirus and its variants, but also – I do not wish – other pandemics will be effective. Nor will I forget our public services, which have played and continue to play an essential role throughout this pandemic; they will still be with us tomorrow. Having often been seen by some as an adjustment variable, our public services have demonstrated their extreme necessity. They have enabled us to cope, at the height of the crisis, and still today, while vigilance remains. Finally, international solidarity. It must not be a slogan, it must be a fact. Even if the figures in Belgium and Europe go in the right direction, this pandemic will only be behind us when the whole world has access to the vaccine and health care. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us not squander our happiness today to give freedom to each and every one of our fellow citizens and to us. How happy to see you again in a world where it is good to breathe without a mask!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u8	Colleagues, when the epidemic was only extended for three months last month, my group voted against. We saw no objective reason for this at the time. The majority approved the extension under the pretext of vigilance and caution. But acting with caution is not the same as using a heavy, exceptional legal procedure and vigilance does not mean prolonging an official emergency. When the majority approved the legislative proposal on this matter not so long ago, it was already clear that the situation was very favourable. The figures showed that at the time. I have therefore argued this in detail. Even corona commissioner Pedro Facon advised black and white that the corona situation would only become more favourable in the coming months. Nevertheless, the emergency situation had to be extended, not for a few weeks, not for one month, for no less than three months. The figures did not in any way call for an emergency at the time. Today's figures mean even less. I did not get an explanation last month as to why the emergency had to be extended by three months or why, at a time when all the other countries were celebrating the reins, there was still a need for an emergency here. Luckily, that will end today. Of course, we will consistently support the end of the legal emergency today. After all, there has been no epidemic for a long time. Today is finally the end of the emergency situation as laid down in the pandemic law. As mentioned by my colleague, last month, according to the criteria and definition of the pandemic law, an extension of the emergency situation was perfectly possible. That far too broad definition is exactly one of the problems. We debated it extensively at that time. That is also one of the reasons why we opposed that pandemic law. The pandemic bill is still there. As long as that pandemic law is in place, it is a matter of waiting for who, when and why the law will be used again to introduce such an exceptional legal emergency. As Minister Vandenbroucke said about the CST, she is in the umbrella stand and can easily be removed from it. Let me take this opportunity to talk about that CST, because we are not yet finally rid of it. That CST is inherent to the coronobarometer. Last week, in the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities, the final debates on the vaccination obligation took place with a small step towards the CST. It is clear why there are no lyrics on the table: the Vivaldi parties do not agree on that either. It was remarkable how Ecolo-Green tried to demonstrate, as the party has been doing in the press for several weeks, that it had always been against the CST, while the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats still supported it. What worries me today is that one of the government's regular advisors, vet Steven Van Gucht, even considers it a useful tool in a regular seasonal flu. I have sufficiently demonstrated when discussing the introduction and the extension of the pandemic law that the very broad definition of the pandemic law is even useful in the event of a severe seasonal flu. Prime Minister De Croo has always said that the corona pass would not last a day longer than necessary. However, I conclude that he saw a need until the beginning of this week. However, there was absolutely no need for this until the beginning of last week. There's never been that need. As far as the point is concerned, Steven Van Gucht puts it this way: "To be useful is not the same as being necessary." By the way, many virologists-experts share the view of the Flemish Interest that the CST has never been useful and has never worked, unless counterproductive and polarising. Why am I quoting that today? I do that because the end of the pass company is not yet in sight. After all, the annual report on EU citizenship, which was discussed in the European Parliament last week, calls for a European digital identity under the pretext that all EU citizens and, of course, the disadvantaged groups should be given more citizenship rights. The European Commission seems to want to develop a European digital identity and push through a digital wallet. I would like to warn you about that today. We saw during the corona crisis the unacceptable control society that we can grow into in such a short time, a pass society that made citizens dependent on a centralised digital green light to be and still be a free citizen. This so-called CST became the pre-image of the control society according to the Chinese model, where freedom is a reward given to citizens with the correct behavior determined by big brother. The EU's digital wallet is another step towards that control company. Freedom in that context is no longer untouchable above all else. If one goes on like this, freedom will soon be generously granted through the digital wallet. We heard such statements from the President of Vooruit in relation to this matter a few months ago. He also sees freedoms as a reward for the citizens, which can be granted at his discretion. In this way, the EU will facilitate the organisation of the lack of freedom. If that is the path you are taking, then the corona law is just a preview or a test phase for the further slipping and anchoring of a control company. The Flemish Interest will oppose this. We will wipe that off the table, and I hope you will do the same. The pandemic law is a thing. We did not wish to apply it for the first time. We did not wish to extend it either. So we will be happy to support the end of its application today, to end positively, better late than never. Please do not apply the pandemic law again next time. Just don't ever use it again. Let it be the final end of emergencies, powers of attorney, coronarepression and doom messages. I hope that in future we can focus on democratic decision-making, on trust between government and citizens and, in particular, on public confidence in the sense of the citizen, in the sense of responsibility. Let's just say that what we've missed so much over the past two years.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the MR Group naturally supports this bill, of which we are co-signatories. Of course, even if the greatest vigilance remains, and the international context, with Russia's aggression against Ukraine, is dramatic, I cannot avoid saying that today is an important day. Allow me, in a few words, to put into perspective what we are doing today and to briefly return to the tool of the Pandemia Act. Like other commissioners of the Special Commission, I recall what some health experts have told us, namely that we cannot, unfortunately, exclude any further pandemics in the future. Therefore, important work was done before the adoption of the Pandemia Act to establish a legislative framework. It has much greater control and involvement of Parliament. This Pandemia Act was passed following numerous hearings of personalities, professors from the academic world, on a draft bill. It was an unprecedented process. The Minister of the Interior then took into account many of the remarks made by the House in the report that was made following the hearings. The current procedure shows this Parliament's follow-up, this greater transparency, the taking into account of the opinions of multidisciplinary experts who have been transmitted to us by the government. We had included in the Pandemia Act the fact that the impact on mental health and the economy had to be taken into account by the experts in their opinions to the government on the measures to be taken in the context of managing the covid crisis. We also obtained regular follow-up in the House. Indeed, since the outbreak emergency statement, we have had a monthly exchange of views with the Minister of Health, the Minister of the Interior and other ministers, as appropriate. The MR Group welcomes this involvement of Parliament and legislative control over the government's management of the crisis. Today, it is clear, in the light of the latest figures, that we can take the decision to repeal the Act of February 11, 2022, which confirmed the Royal Order declaring the continuation of an epidemic emergency. We can also decide to repeal the Royal Decree on the declaration of the epidemic emergency, and its decision to maintain it; and also, the Royal Decree of 28 October 2021 on the administrative police measures, which were taken and which were restrictive of freedoms, to manage the crisis, but which were taken within this legislative framework of the Pandemia Act. While we remain cautious about the evolution of the virus, which unfortunately has not disappeared, we find that the conditions of the epidemic emergency are no longer fulfilled. The passage of our bill today is very welcome. It will not fail, I imagine, to rejoice our fellow citizens, all of whom have been affected by these long months of health crisis. We will also, like other colleagues, be attentive to the evaluation reports that the government will have to submit to us within three months on the implementation of the Pandemic Act. The House will then have to consider this evaluation report and decide to repeal the Pandemic Act, the framework or amend it. Colleagues, I won't be longer. The bill before us today shows us the democratic functioning of our country and the importance of the role of this House. The MR Group welcomes this and will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u10	Madam President, we've been in yellow since Monday. Yellow reminds me of a beautiful place in the Kempen. It is a colour that does not remind me of a party, but above all of sunshine and cheerfulness, and I noticed that in plenary today when we were all here. With the necessary irony, Mr De Roover referred to the opinions of the experts needed to see whether or not that law could be applied. What the experts have done, even with the latest advice, is very legalistic. The pandemic law states in Article 2 that you have to meet four conditions. The opinion says that three of the four conditions are still met, but not the fourth. The opinion partly points out that the situation has, of course, and fortunately, improved considerably, but that it is still not riskless. Consequently, we should not be overconfident. There are still figures that are rising slightly even now. That was foretold and foretold. They follow the best simulations and assume that the situation will only improve in the short term. So that law is not a thing where we are reduced to decision-makers. If measures are to be taken in the near future to maintain, for example, a duty to mask the mouth on public transport or in the care sector, a new legal basis will have to be established for this. This legal basis allows for less proactive control and less retrospective control than is currently available under this pandemic law. We were more than determinations, we were active successors. The CD&V Group does not advocate the abolition of this law. We hope, however, that this law will no longer have to be applied, in particular because the legal conditions are no longer met, which means that we will not have a revival of COOVID-19 or a new pandemic. The only way to prevent this from happening, in order to achieve it in one piece, is the same way as the way in which we may not yet be able to control this pandemic, but in the meantime we are already managing it. We owe this management to the tens of thousands of employees in the healthcare sector, the tens of thousands of employees who are responsible for our safety, the hundreds of thousands of volunteers and the local authorities. In particular, we owe it to the millions of Belgians, who have implemented and respected the measures imposed, despite their possible questions, not only in the interests of their own health, but above all in the interests of the health of their fellow citizens. We must thank them for that. We hope that this emergency will not return. We shall, of course, be voting in favour of the proposal for the lifting of the Royal Decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u11	Madam President, the evening would not have been a success if I did not respond to Mr Verherstraeten's otherwise appreciated speech. Mr Verherstraeten, you say that three of the four criteria are met and one criterion, criterion B, is not. On criterion B, which would not be fully satisfied, the RAG says: "Can still have consequences for health care." That's exactly what I'm quoting. The legislation says, "This leads or can lead to." In other words, this fourth condition is actually met. You are shaking no, what I say out loud, because your main movement is not included in the report. Once again, I read literally from the opinion of the RAG: "Can still have consequences for health care, which was already weakened by the previous waves." The legal text states: "Leads or can lead." That is the point we have always talked about. "Can lead' is a grey zone that can or cannot always be considered completed at will. So if you'd like to go through with it, you can. It seems that you are no longer in the mood, and that is why you have tabled the proposal. But there's still time. It is not the case that today we are objectively establishing that the pandemic law can no longer be applied. It is in that way that I demonstrate that the pandemic law is fundamentally wrong, Mr Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u12	Mr De Roover knows how to provoke me! When reading Article 2 of the law, it is, of course, cumulative conditions in which all four must be fulfilled, in addition to the condition set out in paragraph 1. The condition B, the second additional condition, states "may lead" or "lead." When reading the opinion of the RAG, it points out that the pressure in the healthcare sector is no longer as high as it has been before, that this has been greatly improved, but that the pressure is still there, that there is still a lag in care. Consequently, this may still lead to overpressure. In other words, that condition is not met because there is improvement. Consequently, the conditions are no longer met cumulatively and we can, as it were, do the lifting in accordance with the opinions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u13	Madam President, it is good that this issue is being addressed because it was one of the points I wanted to make. But I think that the inconsistency of this pandemic law has been quite well clarified as regards the usefulness or otherwise of its activation. Of course, we will support this proposal as it puts an end to a pandemic law that we have judged from the beginning and that we still consider to be repressive, anti-democratic and ineffective in the face of the virus. We will now have to take stock of the pandemic law once it has been repealed. I recall that in section 10 of the Pandemic Act, within three months, the government must issue an assessment report to verify whether this Pandemic Act should be amended, improved or simply replaced or repealed. We hope that a rich debate can take place quite quickly on this issue. I hope that on this occasion, the majority will come with results, studies and scientific evidence that will show us that the measures were effective, that there were no other solutions to combat the epidemic and that those that were used were proportionate. Otherwise, the consequences will have to be drawn on the very existence of this law. If the government is not able to scientifically prove, with supporting studies, that this pandemic law has indeed had an impact on the fight against the virus, I do not understand why it would be maintained. Even if it were in the fridge, it would be illogical to maintain a text that does not demonstrate its effectiveness. The need to evaluate the Pandemic Law does not exempt from taking immediate and effective measures to strengthen health care. As the virus appears to be less aggressive, the government has an opportunity to put in place preventive measures to avoid a resurgence of the virus in the fall. At present, nothing is being done in practice. We're not ready. If we rely on our laurels, we have every chance of a new lockdown at the end of the year, which must be avoided at all costs. In order to avoid once again having to impose binding and restrictive measures, it is essential that CO2 detectors and ventilations be installed in public places by mass. It is necessary to invest massively so that every public place can be equipped with a detector and a proper ventilation. Support measures must be put in place to equip culture and horeca to avoid further closures or limitations. The first line to prevent a possible resumption of covid in autumn needs to be strengthened massively. There is a need to address the shortage of general practitioners, to upgrade the care professions to recruit the necessary staff, to invest in new medical homes and to take support measures for the front line. For screening devices, this truce is an opportunity to find a solution to make self-tests free and accessible to all. In view of the rising prices, that would be the least of all! That being said, you are lifting the Pandemic Law, but at the same time there is no sign that the mandatory vaccination project for health care workers would be abandoned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u14	Mr Boukili, you are talking about free measures, offering tests, offering this or offering that. I am not asking for any better, but how can your measures be financed? No one can be against what you say, no one can be against making all this available. But any policy has a cost and I would like to know what means you will use to achieve it. I can promise citizens free of charge every day. However, I would like to know how we finance them. Throughout your programme, we have all the time this reply which aims to "make available, make available, make available". I dream of it, but at some point, making available has a cost for all citizens. So I'd like you to just tell me how.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u15	Mr Rigot, if it were a Liberal who had asked me the question, I would not be surprised. But when a socialist does, I wonder which side you are on.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u16	There is a difference between socialism and (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u17	I didn't interrupt you during your speech, Mr. Rigot. You're asking how to finance this kind of measure. How do we finance social measures? Where are we going to get the money? For example, would you be for or against a millionaire tax that would pay 8 billion euros to finance health care? I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u18	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u19	I'll answer you. Do you listen to the answer? I can give you other measures. Every time I make an intervention on the pandemic law, Mr Rigot considers any criticism unacceptable. I think it's pretty uncomfortable to have passed this law. That's your problem, Mr. Rigot. It's not mine.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u20	Mr Boukili, if you want to play with the malaise, you can talk about your unease when it comes to China or Russia. On the other hand, I have no problem in passing this legislation, which was necessary and required within a framework. You make it a little easy and simple replica, Mr. Boukili. To answer all the questions in general, you say that one must always tax a type of... but, at some point, all the measures you propose, free of charge... The difference between you and us, since you always compare PTB and PS, is pragmatism. The measures we are putting in place, we know how to finance them, and we know how to find the means to do so. You're selling dreams! Never, in the Socialist Party, do we sell dreams. When we come with programs, we know how we fund them. It's easy to be on the balcony, as you do, Mr. Boukili, and offer to shave for free. It's simplistic and PTBism!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u21	I hope this time I won't be cut off. Mr Rigot, when you say that you are in trouble, if you are looking for other subjects to put me in trouble on the subject discussed today, we wonder which one is in trouble. When you get the joker out of China, this or this... [[...]] It is not possible, Madam President, that we cannot speak in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u22	We hear you, Mr Boukili, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u23	Mr Rigot, to answer your question, do you find that wealth in this country is well distributed? Do you think that's the case? If this is not the case, work must be done to better distribute wealth. You think it's normal that citizens who see prices go up must pay for self-tests, whereas it's up to the state to provide them? Other countries do, so why our country - whose government has socialists! - doesn't he? It's still amazing! Having said that, I come back to the conclusion and to the end of my speech. Here, the emergency situation is lifted by finding that conditions are no longer in place to maintain it, but, at the same time, discussions continue on compulsory vaccination of caregivers. Then let me know the logic! If we consider that we are in a situation that is not dangerous at the epidemic level to the point of lifting the pandemic law, how do these same people consider the situation serious enough to impose vaccination on health care workers, at the risk of firing them if they are not vaccinated, knowing the lack of staff in hospitals? Here we have a good proposal, which is to abolish or, in any case, repeal the pandemic law. That's good, but it's always in the continuity of the inconsistency of this government's policy in the fight against Covid-19 because, at the same time, you continue with this compulsory vaccination. I hope that, for the sake of consistency, this government will also revert to this measure, since the situation is no longer an epidemic emergency. And I'll finish by that, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u24	Mrs Matz has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u25	Madam President, we will probably not surprise anyone by saying that we welcome this abrogation of the state of epidemic emergency. This means that the parameters are beginning to improve with regard to the health situation. I can hear every political group happy about this. However, it is also important to recall, as others have already done, that this is obviously the tip of the iceberg, since it remains the pandemic law. We would have wanted to table an amendment to repeal it. It turns out that he was found inadmissible. Of course, it is this part that remains the centrepiece, moreover very problematic. We have had the opportunity to remind him many times. In this case, we have always rejected a binary position according to which some would be in favour of a pandemic law with strong measures while the others would be lax. That was not, of course, what underpinned our position, but the fact that this law substantially deprives Parliament of its power in matters that affect the rights and freedoms of everyone. I have heard several members of the majority recall how much Parliament has been involved in the measures. I am very surprised, since we know that he has been informed of the provisions ex post facto. Moreover, the pre-Christmas coucac about measures aimed at culture would have been quite different if this matter had been referred to Parliament. He would not have opted for the closure of the culture, because such a decision was not proportionate. The Council of State had ample opportunity to recall it through a judgment. It is therefore this pandemic law that remains extremely problematic, especially since the epidemic has been under way for several years. We have proposed something constructive to the government. We proposed another formula, which allowed the government to act urgently, within a limited period of time, to be able to take the orders that were necessary in an urgent fashion while returning to Parliament at the end of a period of five or ten days to be defined. It was not a question of passing on to Parliament for Parliament. The aim was to try to have some consistency in taking the measures and, above all, to win acceptance. In recent months, the measures taken by decree have been completely chaotic and incomprehensible to our citizens, who have not understood the reasons for the closure of certain sectors or the imposition of gauges in the cultural sector, for example. There was no membership. And when there is no membership, it is very complicated to fight the pandemic. We will of course vote for this text. But we remember that this is part of the problem, and that the fundamental problem remains the pandemic law. For us, it must be repealed and replaced by a formula that effectively associates Parliament with decisions that affect the rights and freedoms of everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u26	Madam President, we are back with a new episode on this pandemic law. Last July, our assembly passed the pandemic law, and it was already a bad law. In November, Parliament declared the epidemic emergency situation, and it was still a bad law. And in February, when the state of epidemic emergency was prolonged, it was still a bad law. Whatever the virulence of the virus, this pandemic law, in our view, was, from beginning to end, an attack on participatory democracy, and an organized confiscation of Parliament's powers. This law, unfortunately, has confirmed its full potential by organizing a closed-cut management of Parliament in times of crisis, granting full powers to the government to adopt measures restricting our fundamental freedoms. Of course, we welcome the cessation of this situation, but we remain convinced that the pandemic law is neither more nor less than special powers endorsed by Parliament, which do not allow the population to retain and regain its membership in times of health crisis, as demonstrated by the disastrous episode of the closure of cultural places decided just before Christmas. This closure was legitimately censored by the Council of State, which called the government to order for "lack of proportionality and justification". I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the message sent to us on this occasion should be further pondered. No, we do not limit fundamental freedoms like this, by reducing Parliament to an endorsing chamber and depriving it of its main added value, that is, the fair balance of health, economic and freedom interests. What you have deprived Parliament of with this law has a name: the principle of deliberation. The experience of the Pandemic Law is inconclusive and we still believe that it needs to be repealed and moved, if the need arises again, to a pandemic management mode that renders its powers to Parliament. On the other hand, logically, and contrary to our other opposition colleagues, for consistency, we cannot approve the end of a state of emergency that we did not want, taken on the basis of a law that we fought against. Endorsing it would mean recognizing the legitimacy of the mechanism, which we believe is impossible. We will therefore abstain on this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u27	Madam President, much has already been said about the present legislative proposal and its application, and I will not add much more to it. I think it would be appropriate, on the eve of two years of pandemic in Belgium, just like colleagues, to thank all those who, sometimes against remembrance, and with a great deal of discipline, have taken the measures to protect others, often vulnerable people. I would also, of course, like to thank the healthcare sector, which has made more than superhuman efforts to protect vulnerable people. They have spared no effort to do so. Of course, it is also appropriate to thank all the services that have led us through this very difficult period. I am thinking in particular of the Coronac Commissioner, the experts, the National Crisis Centre and certainly the police and the aid workers. They have never had to make any efforts to guide us through the pandemic. Finally, I would also like to thank Parliament. We have sometimes followed a somewhat turbulent path in the drafting of the pandemic law. They were often interesting discussions. I would also like to thank the services of the Chamber, because they too have had to do a number of unseen things. For example, the interpreters were sometimes available at night and at night to manage the discussions. I would therefore like to thank Parliament. We had to link reality and decisiveness to proportionality and ensure a good legal basis. We have only been able to do this thanks to Parliament. In all honesty, when we published the pandemic law at the end of August last year, no one thought we should activate it, but delta and then omikron decided otherwise. With the law, we have answered the question of creating a specific legal basis, but, as was already provided for in the law, we are obviously going to evaluate them, because they are fundamental, far-reaching things. It was a toolbox that we did not have before. I am the first to say that if we can evaluate, so should we. That is why we have included this evaluation in the law. Finally, I have heard many of the same stories here today. It has always been our promise not to keep the activation of the law longer than necessary. We can have a lot of discussions about how long the pandemic law had to be maintained or extended. However, no one could have known at the time of the extension when the greatest threat of the omikron wave would be over. So it wasn't careless. It is certainly careful not to hold on to such a toolbox at a time when it is no longer necessary to do so, with a possible restriction on freedoms and rights. That is exactly what we are doing today. I know that opinions differ, but for me it shows that this can be an adequate and proportionate instrument and that we will not keep up with that instrument any longer than necessary. At a time when we are moving towards calmer waters, certainly before the pandemic, because, unfortunately, we are facing even more serious problems, we can then rely on other legal bases, in order to maintain the things that we still need. Once again, I would like to express my sincere thanks. I hope that we will be able to conclude this chapter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u28	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u29	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2525/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2525/4) The title has been amended by the Commission as "a bill repealing the continuation of the epidemic emergency situation concerning the VOCID-19 coronavirus pandemic". The title was changed by the Committee to "Proposal for a law on the elimination of the outbreak of the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic." The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u30	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u31	This is the result of the naturalization vote. (2484/1-2) This is the result of the secret vote on naturalizations. (2484/1-2) Number of voters 096 Number of votes Votes valables 095 Valid votes Absolute majority 048 Perfect majority All naturalizations obtained an absolute majority. The vote on the proposed naturalization laws will take place in a moment. All naturalisations have achieved the absolute majority. The proposal of naturalisation laws will be voted on shortly. The Naturalisations Commission's proposal is divided into three parts (A, B and C) each containing several articles to be adopted. The proposal of the Committee on Naturalizations consists of three parts (A, B and C) each containing several articles to be adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u32	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u33	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u34	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u35	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 13 January 2022, a new call for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 25 January 2022 for all the mandates of the Federal Commission for Monitoring and Evaluation of the Application of the Act of 28 May 2002 on euthanasia. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 13 January 2022, a new call for candidates for all mandates of the Federal Audit and Evaluation Committee on the application of the law of 28 May 2002 on euthanasia appeared in the Belgian Official Journal of 25 January 2022. Following the new call, the following applications were submitted: - Mr. Marc De Hert - Mr. Frank Fleerackers - Mr Michel Roland - Mme Vinciane Vlieghe. As a result of the new call, the following applications were submitted: - Mr Marc De Hert - Mr Frank Fleerackers - Mr Michel Roland - Mrs. Vinciane Vlieghe. The Commission shall consist of sixteen effective members and sixteen alternate members: - eight members are medical doctors, at least four of whom are lecturers, professors or meritorious professors in medicine at a Belgian university; - four members are lecturers, professors or meritorious professors of law at a Belgian university or lawyer; - four members come from circles dealing with the problem of patients with an incurable disease. The committee shall consist of sixteen effective members and sixteen alternates: - eight members are doctors, at least four of whom are professors, professors or emeritus professors in medicine at a Belgian university; - four members are teachers, professors or emeritus professors in law at a Belgian university or attorney; - four members come from circles responsible for the problems of incurably ill patients. Taking into account linguistic parity and on the basis of pluralistic representation, members are appointed by royal decree from a double list presented by the House of Representatives, for a renewable term of four years. Candidates who are not elected as effective members shall be appointed as alternate members. Members shall be nominated by royal decree from a double list by the Chamber of Representatives for a renewable term of four years, taking into account linguistic parity and pluralist representation. Candidates who have not been appointed as effective members shall be appointed alternates. Each language group has at least three actual members and three alternate members of each gender. Each language group shall have at least three effective members and three alternate members of each sex. Following the various calls for candidates for the Belgian Monitor, the following applications were submitted: Following the various calls for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal, the following applications were submitted: 1. Category "Doctor in medicine" - Mr. Jean-Paul Alexander (N) - Mr. Jean-Christophe Bier (F) - Mr. Jacques Daele (F) - Mr. Thierry Danois (F) - Mr. Yves de Locht (F) - M. Marc De Hert (N) - M. Marc Desmet (N) - M. Wim Distelmans (N) - M. Didier Giet (F) - Mr. Emmanuel Keirse (N) - Ms. Nina Kjeldahl (F) - Mr Luc Proot (N) - Mr Philippe Rubijn (F) - Mr Michel Roland (F) - Mr Kristof Thevisis (N) - Mr Patrik Vankrunkelsven (N) - Ms. Corinne Vaysse (F) - Ms. Bea Verbeeck (N) - Mr Chris Verslype (N) 1. Category "healer' - Mr Jean-Paul Alexander (N) - Mr Jean-Christophe Bier (F) - Heer Jacques Daele (F) - Mr Thierry Danois (F) - Mr Yves de Locht (F) Mr Marc De Hert (N) - Mr Marc Desmet (N) - Mr Wim Distelmans (N) - Mr Didier Giet (F) - Mr Emmanuel Keirse (N) - Ms Nina Kjeldahl (F) - Mr Luc Proot (N) - Mr Philippe Rubijn (F) - Mr Michel Roland (F) Mr Kristof Thevissen (N) Mr Patrik Vankrunkelsven (N) - Mrs Corinne Vaysse (F) - Ms Bea Verbeeck (N) - Mr Chris Verslype (N) MM. Wim Distelmans, Didier Giet, Emmanuel Keirse, Patrik Vankrunkelsven, Chris Verslype and Marc De Hert are also lecturers or professor (emeritus) in medicine. Mr Wim Distelmans, Mr Didier Giet, Mr Emmanuel Keirse, Mr Patrik Vankrunkelsven, Mr Chris Verslype and Mr Marc De Hert are also lecturers or (emeritus) professors in medicine. 2. Category "in charge of courses or professor (emeritus) in law at a Belgian university or lawyer" - Mr. Tom Balthazar, Senior Lecturer at Ghent University (N) - Mr. Walter De Bondt, Professor Emeritus at the University of Ghent (N) - Ms Isabelle De Clercq, lawyer at the Ghent Bar (N) - Mr. Frank Fleerackers, Professor at KULeuven (N) - Mr Patrick Henry, lawyer at the Liège Bar (F) - Ms. Jacqueline Herremans, lawyer (F) - Mr Yves-Henri Leleu, regular professor at the University of Liège, lawyer (F) - Mr Anthony Rizzo, lawyer at the Brussels Bar (F) - Ms Geneviève Toussaint, lawyer at the Brussels Bar (F) 2. Category "doctor of (emeritus) professor of law at a Belgian university or attorney' - Mr Tom Balthazar, Professor at Ghent University (N) - Mr Walter De Bondt, professor of emeritus at Ghent University (N) - Ms Isabelle De Clercq, attorney at the Ghent Bar (N) - Mr Frank Fleerackers, Professor at the KULeuven (N) - Mr Patrick Henry, attorney at the Liège Bar (F) - mevrouw Jacqueline Herremans, advocate (F) - Mr Yves-Henri Leleu, Professor at the University of Liège, attorney (F) - Mr Anthony Rizzo, lawyer at the Brussels Bar (F) - Ms Geneviève Toussaint, lawyer at the Brussels Bar (F) 3. Category "Middles dealing with the problem of patients with incurable disease" - Mr. Marc Desmet, Palliative Medicine Expert, Ethician and Palliative Care Physician at AV Virga Jesseziekenhuis Hasselt (N) - Mr Paul Destrooper, Secretary of the INAMI Committee on Medical Consultants (N) - Ms. Natasia Hamarat, health sociologist, PhD student at the METICES Centre of the ULB (F) - Ms. Jacqueline Herremans, lawyer (F) - Ms. Eliane Janssens, Community Coordinator at the Lay Aid Service for People at the Charleroi Centre for Laica Action (F) - Mr Emmanuel Keirse, Professor Emeritus at the Faculty of Medicine of the KULeuven, member of the Advisory Committee on Bioethics (N) - Ms Nadeige Struyf, clinical trainer at BRUSANO (F) - Mr Kristof Thevissen, Visiting Lecturer at the University of Hasselt, President of the Asbl LEIF Limburg (N) - Ms. Mariette Van Hoek, pain nurse for LEIF (N) - Mr Patrik Vankrunkelsven, lecturer in general medicine at KULeuven, member of the LEIF Board of Directors (N) - Ms. Corinne Vaysse, head of the Palliative Care Service of the Clinique du Bois de la Pierre (Wavre) (F) - Ms. Vinciane Vlieghe (F), pediatrician at Queen Fabiola Children's University Hospital (F) - Mr. Philippe Robijn is only a candidate for a term of office as an effective member. 3. Category "circles in charge of the problems of incurably ill patients" - Mr Marc Desmet, expert palliative medicine, ethicist and physician palliative care AV Virga Jesse Hospital Hasselt (N) - Mr Paul Destrooper, Secretary of the RIZIV Committee on Advisory Doctors (N) - Ms Natasia Hamarat, sociologist in health sciences, PhD at the "Metrices de - Ms Jacqueline Herremans, lawyer (F) - Mrs Eliane Janssens, Community coordinator of the liberal aid service of the Centre d'Action laïque de Charleroi (F) - Mr Emmanuel Keirse, emeritus professor at the Faculty of Medicine of the KULeuven, member of the Advisory Committee on Bioethics (N) - Ms Nadeige Struyf, clinical trainer at BRUSANO (F) - Mr Kristof Thevisen, visiting lecturer at Hasselt University, Chairman of Leif Limburg (N) - Ms Mariette Van Hoek, LEIF pain nurse (N) - Mr Patrik Vankrunkelsven, lecturer in general medicine at the Kuleuven, member of the Executive Board of LEIF (N) - Ms Corinne Vaysse, head of the palliative care department of the 'Clinique du Bois de la Pierre' (Waver) (F) - Mrs Vinciane Vlieghe, pediator at Queen Fabiola Children's University Hospital (F) - Mr Philippe Rubijn is only a candidate for an effective member's mandate. By e-mail of 3 March 2022, Mr. Tom Balthazar withdrew his candidacy as an effective member but remained willing to serve as an alternate member. By e-mail of 3 March 2022, Mr Tom Balthazar withdraws his candidacy as an effective member but continues to fill in the candidate and deputy member's mandate. By letters dated 22 and 27 January 2022 respectively, Ms Jacinta De Roeck and Mr Christophe Lemmens withdrew their applications. By letters dated 22 and 27 January 2022 respectively, Ms Jacinta De Roeck and Mr Christophe Lemmens withdrew their applications. By e-mail dated March 6, 2022, Georges Van Snick withdrew his application. By e-mail of 6 March 2022, Mr Georges Van Snick withdraws his candidacy. By e-mail dated March 8, 2022, Ms. Linde Vande Castele withdrew her application. By e-mail of 8 March 2022, Ms Linde Vande Castele withdraws her candidacy. Eighteen French-speaking applications were submitted, eight of which were female, and sixteen Dutch-speaking applications, three of which were female. Eighteen French-language applications were submitted, of which eight were female, and sixteen were Dutch-language applications, of which three were female. Three Dutch-speaking female candidates are therefore missing. So there are three Dutch-speaking female candidates missing. French-speaking applications for the sub-category 'teachers or professors (emeritus) in medicine' have been introduced in insufficient numbers. Insufficient French-language applications were submitted for the subcategory 'teacher of (emeritus) professor of medicine'. Linguistic parity must be respected for the Commission as a whole. The linguistic parity must be respected for the committee as a whole. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 March 2022, I propose that you forward the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups with a view to drawing up a double list of candidates for the mandates for which there are sufficient candidates. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 March 2022, I propose that the candidates' CVs be forwarded to the political groups with a view to drawing up a double list of candidates for the mandates for which sufficient applications have been submitted. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u36	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 23 December 2021, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 17 January 2022 for one third of the actual and alternate members of the Board of Directors of the Human Rights Institute. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 23 December 2021, a call for candidates for one third of the mandates of effective and alternate member of the Board of Directors of the Institute of Human Rights appeared in the Belgian Official Journal of 17 January 2022. The following applications were submitted: The following applications were submitted: Actual members Effective members Judicial world World of justice Francophone applicants - Mrs. Isabelle Fontignie, lawyer - Ms Camille Leroy, lawyer at the Brussels bar - Ms Stephanie Mees, first auditor, legal translator at the Supreme Council of Justice French-speaking candidates - Mrs. Isabelle Fontignie, attorney. - Mrs Camille Leroy, attorney at the Brussels Bar - Ms Stéphanie Mees, first auditor-translator at the Supreme Court of Justice Dutch-speaking applicants - Mrs Regine Claeys, judge at the Brussels Court of First Instance - Mr. Willem Debeuckelaere, retired - Dr. Evelien de Kezel, judge at the Ghent Labour Court and the Special Criminal Chamber of the West Flanders Court of First Instance, Bruges Section - Dr. Karel Demeester, avocat - Mme Laura De Witte, candidat housesier - Mrs. Nicole D'hont, lawyer - Ms. Lore Geraerts, Assistant in Practice at the Katholiek Universiteit Leuven University Faculty - M. Johan Heymans, avocat - Mr. Pierre Lefranc, State Councillor, Council of State - Mr Lieven Lenaerts, Honorary President of the Chamber of the Brussels Labour Court - Mr Bruno Lietaert, President of the Ghent Labour Court Chamber - Mme Evelyne Maes, avocate - M. Tom Ruysschaert, Call for Expression of interest EASO/2021/885 - Profile A6 Junior Social Worker - Mr Patrick Senaeve, alternate magistrate at the Brussels Court of Appeal - Mr Walter Thiery, judge at the Dutch-speaking Court of First Instance in Brussels - Mrs. Catherine Van de Heyning, subsitut of the King's Prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office - Mrs. Eve Vlemincx, lawyer Dutch-speaking candidates - Ms Regine Claeys, Judge at the Court of First Instance in Brussels - Mr Willem Debeuckelaere, retired - Dr. Evelien de Kezel, judge in the Labour Court in Ghent and in the specialised criminal chamber of the Court of First Instance in West Flanders, department of Bruges - Dr. Karel Demeester, attorney. - Mrs Laura De Witte, candidate bailiff - Mrs Nicole D'hont, attorney - Ms Lore Geraerts, Assistant Law Faculty of KULeuven - Mr Johan Heymans, lawyer - Mr Pierre Lefranc, State Council at the Council of State - Mr Lieven Lenaerts, Honorary Chamber Chairman of the Brussels Labour Court - Mr Bruno Lietaert, President of the Chamber of the Ghent Labour Court - Mrs. Evelyne Maes, attorney. - de heer Tom Ruysschaert, Call for Expression of interest EASO/2021/885 - Profile A6 Junior Social Worker - Mr Patrick Senaeve, Deputy Magistrate at the Court of Appeal in Brussels - Mr Walter Thiery, judge at the Dutch court of first instance in Brussels - Ms Catherine Van de Heyning, Deputy Prosecutor of the King at the Public Prosecutor's Office - Mrs. Eve Vlemincx, attorney Civil society Civil society Francophone applicants - Ms Estelle Ceulemans, Secretary-General FGTB Brussels - Ms Stephanie Mees, first auditor, legal translator at the Supreme Council of Justice French-speaking candidates - mevrouw Estelle Ceulemans, secretaris-general 'FGTB Bruxelles' - Ms Stéphanie Mees, first auditor-translator at the Supreme Court of Justice Dutch-speaking applicants - Mr. Yves Aerts, alternate member of the Board of Directors of the Institute of Human Rights - M. Willem Debeuckelaere, retraité - Mr Eduard Laurijssen, President of Forum Ethibel asbl - M. Tom Ruysschaert, Call for Expression of interest EASO/2021/885 - Profile A6 Junior Social Worker Dutch-speaking candidates - Mr Yves Aerts, Deputy Member of the Management Board of the Institute for Human Rights - Mr Willem Debeuckelaere, retired - Mr Eduard Laurijssen, Chairman of Forum Ethibel vzw - de heer Tom Ruysschaert, Call for Expression of interest EASO/2021/885 - Profile A6 Junior Social Worker Social partners Social partners Francophone applicants - Ms Estelle Ceulemans, Secretary-General FGTB Brussels French-speaking candidates - Ms Estelle Ceulemans, Secretary-General 'FGTB Bruxelles' Dutch-speaking applicants - Ms. Ineke De Bisschop, Assistant Advisor to the Syndicat des Entreprises Belgique - Mr. Joris Verschueren, CGSLB Project Manager Dutch-speaking candidates - Ms Ineke De Bisschop, Deputy Adviser to the Federation of Belgian Enterprises - Mr Joris Verschueren, Project Manager ACLVB Alternate members Alternates Judicial world World of justice Francophone applicants - Mrs. Isabelle Fontignie, lawyer - Ms Camille Leroy, lawyer at the Brussels bar - Ms Stephanie Mees, first auditor, legal translator at the Supreme Council of Justice French-speaking candidates - Mrs. Isabelle Fontignie, attorney. - Mrs Camille Leroy, attorney at the Brussels Bar - Ms Stéphanie Mees, first auditor-translator at the Supreme Court of Justice Dutch-speaking applicants - Mrs Regine Claeys, judge at the Brussels Court of First Instance - Dr. Karel Demeester, lawyer in criminal law and human rights - Mme Laura De Witte, candidat housesier - Mrs. Nicole D'hont, lawyer - Ms. Lore Geraerts, Assistant in Practice at the Katholiek Universiteit Leuven University Faculty - Mr. Pierre Lefranc, State Councillor, Council of State - Mr Lieven Lenaerts, Honorary President of the Chamber of the Brussels Labour Court - Mr Bruno Lietaert, President of the Ghent Labour Court Chamber - Mrs. Evelyne Maes, lawyer - M. Tom Ruysschaert, Call for Expression of interest EASO/2021/885 - Profile A6 Junior Social Worker - Mr Patrick Senaeve, alternate magistrate at the Brussels Court of Appeal - Mrs. Eve Vlemincx, lawyer Dutch-speaking candidates - Mrs Regine Claeys, Judge at the Court of First Instance in Brussels - Dr. Karel Demeester, attorney in criminal law and human rights - Mrs Laura De Witte, candidate bailiff - Mrs Nicole D'hont, attorney - Ms Lore Geraerts, Assistant Law Faculty of KULeuven - Mr Pierre Lefranc, State Council at the Council of State - Mr Lieven Lenaerts, Honorary Chamber Chairman of the Brussels Labour Court - Mr Bruno Lietaert, President of the Chamber of the Ghent Labour Court - Mrs. Evelyne Maes, attorney. - de heer Tom Ruysschaert, Call for Expression of interest EASO/2021/885 - Profile A6 Junior Social Worker - Mr Patrick Senaeve, Deputy Magistrate at the Court of Appeal in Brussels - Mrs. Eve Vlemincx, attorney Civil society Civil society Francophone applicants - Ms Estelle Ceulemans, Secretary-General FGTB Brussels - Ms Stephanie Mees, first auditor, legal translator at the Supreme Council of Justice French-speaking candidates - Ms Estelle Ceulemans, Secretary-General FGTB Bruxelles' - Ms Stéphanie Mees, first auditor-translator at the Supreme Court of Justice Dutch-speaking applicants - Mr. Yves Aerts, alternate member of the Board of Directors of the Institute of Human Rights - M. Tom Ruysschaert, Call for Expression of interest EASO/2021/885 - Profile A6 Junior Social Worker Dutch-speaking candidates - Mr Yves Aerts, Deputy Member of the Management Board of the Institute for Human Rights - de heer Tom Ruysschaert, Call for Expression of interest EASO/2021/885 - Profile A6 Junior Social Worker Social partners Social partners Francophone applicants - Mr Hugues Ghenne, Legal Adviser for the Federal Study Service, Department of Social Policy and Welfare - Federal FGTB - Ms Estelle Ceulemans, Secretary-General FGTB Brussels French-speaking candidates - Mr Hugues Ghenne, Legal Adviser for the Federal Study Service, Social Policy and Welfare Division - FGTB fédérale' - Ms Estelle Ceulemans, Secretary-General FGTB Bruxelles Dutch-speaking applicants - M. Joris Verschueren, gestionnaire de projet CGSLB Dutch-speaking candidates - Mr Joris Verschueren, Project Manager ACLVB Ms. Muriel Clavie submitted her application late. Mrs Muriel Clavie has applied late. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 March 2022, I propose that you declare Mrs Muriel Clavie's candidacy inadmissible. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 March 2022, I propose that the candidature of Ms Muriel Clavie be declared inadmissible. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 11, § 1, of the Act of 12 May 2019 establishing a Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, at least one member must be able to provide proof of German knowledge. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 11 (1) of the Law of 12 May 2019 establishing a Federal Institute for the Protection of Human Rights, at least one Member shall provide proof of the knowledge of German. Mrs Stephanie Mees and Mr. Tom Ruysschaert and Joris Verschueren want to demonstrate their knowledge of German. Mrs Stéphanie Mees and Mr Tom Ruysschaert and Mr Joris Verschueren wish to demonstrate their knowledge of German. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 March 2022, these candidates will be invited to present a German language test at the Selor. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 March 2022, these candidates will be invited to take a German language test at Selor. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 March 2022, the curriculum vitae of the candidates will be forwarded to the political groups. Candidates will be heard in the Justice Committee. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 March 2022, the curriculum vitæ of the candidates will be delivered to the political groups. The candidates will be heard by the Justice Committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u37	The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the Labour Burden Reduction Bill, No. 2522/1. The Government asked for an urgent procedure pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on the reduction of labour charges, No. 2522/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u38	Madam President, this urgent question is justified because the measures included in the draft should be operationalised as from 1 April of this year in order to effectively respect the budgetary balance, which is so dear to us all.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u39	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u40	The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the introduction of the Veterinary Medicinal Products Bill, No. 2526/1. The Government also requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law on veterinary medicinal products, No. 2526/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u41	Madam President, this is something that we all care about, namely veterinary medicines. The European Regulation 2019/06 on veterinary medicinal products entered into force on 28 January 2022. The discussion of the draft law before us is therefore urgent in order to implement the regulation and make it applicable. In this way, our country fulfils its obligations towards the European Union. In addition, it is, of course, also essential for legal certainty in the various sectors concerned that the existing legal provisions on veterinary medicinal products which are contrary to the regulation should be repealed in the very short term in the interests of all our beautiful animals.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u42	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u43	The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill confirming the Royal Decree of 5 March 2021 amending the Royal Decree of 29 March 2012 laying down the rules for determining the cost of the application of social tariffs by natural gas undertakings and the rules of intervention for their taking over, as well as the Royal Decree of 29 March 2012 laying down the rules for determining the cost of the application of social tariffs by electricity undertakings and the rules of intervention for their taking over, No. 2554/1. The Government also requested the urgency statement pursuant to Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law ratifying the Royal Decree of 5 March 2021 amending the Royal Decree of 29 March 2012 laying down the rules for determining the costs of the application of social rates by natural gas undertakings and the intervention rules for taking charge thereof and the Royal Decree of 29 March 2012 laying down the rules for determining the costs of the application of social rates by electricity undertakings and the intervention rules for taking charge thereof, No. 2554/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u44	Madam President, while my animal heart is still bleeding about the non-unanimous approval of the previous request for urgency, I would like to explain the urgency statement for draft law No. 2554/1. This draft law concerns the ratification of the Royal Decree of 5 March 2021 amending the Royal Decree of 29 March 2012 laying down the rules for determining the costs of the application of social rates by natural gas undertakings and the intervention rules for their imposition, as well as the Royal Decree of 29 March 2012 laying down the rules for determining the costs of the application of social tariffs by electricity undertakings and the intervention rules for their imposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u45	Madam President, perhaps we should reflect on the procedure we are following and whether it is not more efficient. I suggest we break our heads on that Wednesday. The Rules of Procedure may be amended. The Secretary of State has just given the impression that voting on urgency would have a substantive meaning. I would like to point out, however, that the urgency that has just been asked, with our doubts or rejection, is a trick of the government to avoid the advice of the Data Protection Authority. It is therefore not an attitude towards the content of your draft, but rather towards the government's clever way of acting in an indecent manner. I just wanted to make that right.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u46	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u47	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (art. 75, n° 5, Rgt) If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. (art. 75, nr. 5, Rgt) No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have debated it widely here today. Ukraine is being bombed and the toll on civilian victims is enormous. Several groups have tabled resolutions condemning the Russian invasion and expressing support for the Ukrainian people. Several parliaments, worldwide, have already adopted a text to this effect, including the European Parliament, the Flemish Parliament, Germany and the Netherlands. Our Parliament cannot be left behind. That is why we have tabled this text together with colleagues from other groups. We are asking for urgency for our text with No. 2536/1. Madam President, I would like to make a suggestion. In order to have as much consensus as possible and as much support as possible for the signal that many of us want to send, it might be an idea to present a joint package for urgency, across the borders of majority and opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u49	We have four proposals on Ukraine and Russia's invasion of Mr. From Smet, Lacroix and Boukili. I propose that we take a decision on the request for an emergency. I propose that we give an opinion on the request for urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u50	I have also received a request to consider these motions for resolutions in joint committees on External Relations and Defence. No remarks? [[(Non]] [[)]] There is still an urgent request for a proposal from Mrs Merckx.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u51	Madam President, I would like to ask the urgency of the legislative proposal to introduce a special surplus tax, No. 2558. A great deal has been said this afternoon about the hugely expensive energy prices and calls for a reduction in the energy bill for citizens. We have also heard that there are a lot of proposals on the government's table, but apparently they are not signed. It is not always the case, but things are moving: this afternoon the free market was called into question and the European Commission approved the taxing of surplus profits in the energy sector. I think you are all convinced that this must be done, because someone has to pay the bill, if we want to reduce the burden on citizens as a result of the high energy bill. I hope you will all support the request for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u52	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I propose that we speak on the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u53	Madam President, Mr Philippe Pivin is not present as a result of surgery. I have a voice appointment with him.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u54	Madam President, Mr Philippe Goffin is absent today for illness. I have a voice appointment with him.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u55	Madam President, I have a vote with our good colleague, Florence Reuter, who could not be here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u56	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Valerie Van Peel on points 1 to 15.(2503/3) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Valerie Van Peel at points 1 to 15.(2503/3) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u57	Yes [[17]] Yes No. 89 No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 124 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u58	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u59	Madam President, I was concerned about voting. I can't vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u60	Madam President, I also had a connection problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u61	Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u62	Yes 95 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 31 Abstensions Total 126 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u63	Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u64	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u65	Yes 93 Yes No. 32 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 128 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u66	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u67	Yes 91 Yes No. 32 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 126 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u68	Madam President, it's not because of a lack of connection, but it's a distraction. I confirm that I voted in favour. I also made an intervention on this subject earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u69	The distraction, Madame Jadin! Have any other members encountered any difficulties?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u70	My party president forced me to vote in favour, Madam President!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u71	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u72	Yes [[113]] Yes No. [[12]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 128 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u73	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Marco Van Hees to delete Articles 4 to 9. (2472/10) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Marco Van Hees to the exclusion of Articles 4 to 9. (2472/10) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u74	Yes [[12]] Yes No. [[113]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and Articles 4 to 9 were adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Articles 4 to 9 were adopted. Vote on Amendment No 1 by Reccino Van Lommel to Article 18. (2472/10) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Reccino Van Lommel on Article 18. (2472/10) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u75	Yes [[16]] Yes No. [[113]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 18 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 18 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u76	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u77	Yes 78 Yes No. [[16]] No Abstentions 36 Abstensions Total 130 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u78	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u79	Yes 127 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 129 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u80	Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? We will proceed to vote on the proposed naturalization laws that we have just discussed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for naturalisation laws, the articles of which we have just discussed. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u81	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u82	Yes 111 Yes No [[16]] No. Abstentions 0 Abstentions Total 127 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part A). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part A). It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u83	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u84	Yes 100 Yes No [[16]] No. Abstentions 0 Abstentions Total 116 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part B). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part B). It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u85	Yes 109 Yes No [[16]] No. Abstentions 0 Abstentions Total 125 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part C). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part C). It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u86	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u87	Yes 110 Yes No 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No. Abstentions 12 Abstentions Total 122 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. Reason for abstention? [[(Non]] [[)]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip168x.u88	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, March 17, 2022, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Thursday 17 March 2022 at 2.15 p.m.
