ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u1	We all know the problem of muco, the most common life-threatening disease in our country, with almost 1,400 patients. We know the disease: respiratory infections, pneumonia, mucus that is difficult to cough up. Since 2016, there has been a new type of medicines, the CFTR modulators that not only fight the symptoms, but also address the basic effect of the disease. We have already approved a first wave of medication, namely Symkevi and Orkambi, for which the company Vertex had applied for the refund at the time. There are newer medicines on the market, like Kaftrio. Since 2020, this has been approved by Europe for twelve-plussers. For younger children, between 6 and 12 years old, approval came in 2021. For Kaftrio +12, Vertex submitted a dossier to the Commission for Medication Medicinal Products (CTG). We know the procedure: 180 days, to extend by 120 days. In the past, you have always attached importance to cost-effectiveness. Today seven colleagues are asking questions about this, all of which are addressed by patients in their environment. The neighbouring countries are all paying back. Most Western European countries pay back. We were very late with the refunds of Symkevi and Orkambi. People are worried. It is our job as a representative of the people to convey that concern. What is the status of Kaftrio?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u2	Mr Minister, I will add something else because my questions are somewhat different. What is the status of the procedure for the reimbursement of Kaftrio? When could this reimbursement possibly be made? In connection with the other medications for cystic fibrosis, Orkambi and Symkevi, we know that they cost approximately 134,000 euros and 165,000 euros per patient per year, respectively. Can you confirm those amounts? How much is Kaftrio today? If there is a refund, will it also be covered by a secret contract or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u3	Minister, my colleagues have already outlined the issue of access to this drug (the Kaftrio) for patients with cystic fibrosis. The issues, benefits and importance of its access, as well as its greater effectiveness than other drugs, are known. What is now important is to move forward while this medicine is being reimbursed in all neighbouring countries and most Western European countries. An agreement to be reached within the framework of the famous Convention on Articles 111 is referred to. I understand that the procedure would be 169 days over a total period of up to 300 days. Where are we? Seeing our patients in Belgium injured compared to others abroad is problematic! Have the negotiations started? Do you measure the importance of having to speed up discussions to reach a faster timetable? Would we be able to receive your commitment not to arrive at the maximum time limit of 300 days? It would be beneficial if you landed faster. It would be unacceptable if the patients concerned still had to wait six months.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u4	Minister, this is an extremely important issue for patients with cystic fibrosis. If certain specialties are already reimbursed, the procedure for access to the Kaftrio has been in progress for some time and its reimbursement is already possible in other countries. This while EMA confirmed the value of triple therapy for children aged 6 to 11. The scientific results for the drug appear to be perfectly convincing. What information can you give us about the ongoing procedure at CRM? When exactly did it start and what are the estimates of the time frame for early repayment decisions for those over 12 years of age? In view of the positive opinion of EMA for children aged 6 to 11, is a parallel procedure initiated? How are affected persons and the associations representing them informed of the steps being taken in relation to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u5	It is indeed an important and sensitive dossier, which I follow from the start of the legislature. I really understand the great displeasure of the patients involved. Of course, we want the medicine to be made available to patients as soon as possible, but not only the government, including the pharmaceutical company in question, Vertex, has a very great responsibility. Since the registration of Kaftrio, in August 2020 several interested parties have repeatedly urged Vertex to submit a request for reimbursement to the CTG. On 19 March 2021, the company Vertex submitted to the CTG an application file for Kaftrio in combination with Kalydeco. On the basis of the date of submission, a decision was anticipated by the end of September 2021, but the file was withdrawn by Vertex early, which ended the procedure. The company only submitted a new file to the CTG at the end of July 2021. Day 180 of that procedure falls at the end of January 2022. Note, that is without possible suspensions, which the company can apply for at different times in the procedure. Exactly that factor in the current procedure is outside the control of the government. There's no way I can give you more detailed information now. This could jeopardise the smooth functioning of the repayment procedure and any negotiations. I can assure you that regardless of the medicine I, together with my administration, always strive for the shortest possible time to reach a decision. A question was asked about children between 6 and 11. According to Belgian legislation, Vertex can already apply to the CTG for the reimbursement of Kaftrio for children between 6 and 11 years old. On 11 November 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use gave a favourable opinion on that paediatric indication, but no application has yet been received from the CTG. It was also asked whether I could estimate the budgetary impact of the managed entry agreement procedure. The use of managed entry agreements (MEAs) is one of the techniques used to control expenditure on proprietary medicinal products. Indeed, the procedure makes it possible to speed up a controlled introduction into the reimbursement of innovative medicines, despite the fact that there are still therapeutic or budgetary uncertainties. It must be clear that there is no separate budget for proprietary medicinal products that are reimbursed through an agreement. Agreements are one of the tools for better control of the pharmaceutical budget. The compensation for health insurance in accordance with Articles 81 to 111 of the global budgetary objective 2022 is estimated at EUR 1,280 billion. The question is whether I am proposing an adjustment to the mechanism for greater transparency or international cooperation. The specific changes concerning access to promising medicines, in particular to orphan medicinal products and therefore their budget, are currently being examined in the context of the development of the pharmaceutical pact. In this context, it is important that the measures cannot be considered separately but are part of a global pharmaceutical policy. Moreover, we must ensure that policy changes are implemented in parallel and coherent with other reforms. International cooperation is very high on my list of priorities. This has already led to successes in the past. We will certainly continue along that road.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u6	It is true that in such a procedure the good will must come from two sides. However, this is not always easy for patients to understand. Of course they want a refund, quite rightly. I feel that you and your administration want things to progress and the process to proceed in a good way. That is a very positive thing in itself. I am also very pleased with the last piece of your reply. After all, it remains difficult to explain that there is a need to move quickly in order to obtain the reimbursement of some orphan medicinal products, that there is only one person here, while in neighbouring countries or in a European context it is possible to do so. Cooperation is increasingly pressing and it would be a step forward that clusters of countries could offer patients solutions. I hope for a quick solution for those concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u7	Thanks for the explanation. I welcome the fact that you share with us what you can share and that you show the necessary respect for the negotiations, of which you are not yet able to share the results. I'd like to thank you for that. You say that day 180 is due at the end of January, and I see the will to not extend the deadline beyond what is necessary. We support this call and call for clarity for patients and for the time for the procedure to be used as efficiently as possible. Finally, I would like to remind you of my question, Mr Muylle, which also referred to the opening of the debate and to tackle such cases internationally and on a larger scale in future, so that people who live only 5 km from the border do not have to experience a confrontational difference in their health or that of their children. I am confident that the dossier will be handled properly and that we may be able to look at it differently in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u8	Your answer is what it is, Minister. Allow me to comment on your comment on the 180-day deadline. The file is not new and has undoubtedly already been examined by your services. You yourself indicated that the dossier had already been submitted in March, then withdrawn and now submitted again. The question here is whether the 180-day period should always be completed. My colleague welcomed your decision not to extend the deadline, already. But why do you always take so much time, since the file is well known? You're talking about international cooperation. That is good, but certainly for the dossier that we are talking about, you could really have worked together internationally and looked at the surrounding countries. After all, what is important? These are the reduction in the number of antibiotic courses, the improvement in lung function and the increase in life expectancy, and the increase in quality of life according to all kinds of quality of life studies which can contribute to society, because one can work, study and develop oneself, especially when it comes to children. Lung transplants could also be avoided. In short, if the medicine in question is taken from a young age, it guarantees a great change in patients' lives, which the Muco association has also been pointing to for a long time. It is therefore a pity that we are the last in line to evaluate the reimbursement. You mentioned international cooperation, but you did not mention transparency, which your party argued for in the past. Maybe we should work on that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u9	Minister, I understand that you cannot share all the information with us in an ongoing negotiation procedure. The file's been dragging on for some time. It's not always easy to explain that to patients, and certainly not to parents. They are right to hope that their child can be helped as quickly and as well as possible. Our country is obliged to provide our citizens with good health care. In any case, I welcome the progress made on the dossier. I hope we get more news soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u10	Mr Minister, the other two medicines are already being reimbursed, but Kaftrio is still not. Because of the little you have said about it, I have the impression that we are still the victims of the whims of the company Vertex, which wants to do things its way. I think that's special. Is there really no evolution in that? If there are already two agreements with that company, while I think we are paying heavily to the other two companies, is it not normal that we should be able to make further agreements in a normal way? Like Mrs Depoorter, I note that with a socialist minister we had hoped for more transparency and more explanation, that a little more often a tip of the veil was lifted. I asked about the prices of Orkambi and Symkevi, but you do not go into that at all. Let's not forget that's not normal. Normally, the taxpayer is entitled to know how much is being paid to companies for certain medicines. I do not see much change in this and what worries me most is your statement that Article 111 is intended to control the budget. This is the problem, Minister: the budget has been derailed and, in the meantime, about a third of our medicine budget is secret. We don't know how much we're paying for those drugs, unless you can confirm to me that it isn't and that things have changed since you became Minister. However, I do not believe that. The PVDA therefore maintains that, for certain medicines, the procedure of the Court of Auditors, which was approved here, should be used at some point in order to obtain access to certain contracts.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u11	Minister, thank you for your answer, although it contains more words than concrete solutions. Indeed, the delay in our country to the detriment of the children and young adults concerned is not understandable when we observe the rapid reaction in all other countries. There's something out of my mind. We cannot be told that we are going as quickly as possible, while everyone – apart from Belgium – has executed the refund. You insist on cost as a limiting factor. Like your predecessors, you cannot explain things honestly and precisely. Yes, it is a high cost. However, it must be realized that this treatment will lead to savings. This improves the patient's hope and quality of life. As a result, the number of infectious complications, hospitalizations, antibiotic treatments, transplants, etc. is decreasing. will offset part of that cost. Another aspect seems to me essential as well. You present this treatment as a new cost to patients. However, for a very large majority of them, this will not represent an additional financial burden, but only a price difference with their previous treatment – in particular the other CFTR modulators that they will no longer use if they take the Kaftrio. I wanted to express these reservations to your presentation of the problem. Yes, the tariff must be taken into account, but it is also necessary to integrate the different benefits of this treatment – both for the health of the persons concerned and from the point of view of the costs of social security. I hope that progress will be made, Mr Minister, both for those involved in this agreement and for children between the ages of six and eleven. I also hope that we will not have to wait until June. That would be way too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u12	Minister, thank you for your commitment. Through the opinions, it is perceived that the file is closely monitored, with the attention it requires. I ask you to keep patient representatives well informed on the subjects of interest to them, which seems essential to me. I regret that the pharmaceutical company did not file anything for the 6-11 year old treatment when a favourable opinion was given. I will remain attentive and stick to the deadlines that have been announced. Finally, I would like to point out that the principle of the Benelux 1 agreements – which were carried out by Minister De Block – remains an interesting avenue in the context of the matter before us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u13	Minister, I cannot get the impression that your answer was lean and very dry. You just read your answer. That is your right, of course, but I suspect that the dossier is not as close to your heart as you want us to believe. I also note that all our neighbouring countries and many other countries have already arranged a refund, but Belgium has not. How come they can and we can't do this? Maybe you should put a little more weight in the bowl.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u14	Mr Minister, this is a written question which I had to turn into an oral question because I have still not received an answer. The written question dates from 12 May 2021. A five-year evaluation test is organised by provincial schools for urgent medical assistance. She's mandatory for every paramedic. If the auxiliary ambienter fails the test, it can no longer be used until a positive test is obtained. I have a dozen questions about that. First of all, how many aid workers did the re-evaluation take place in 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020? How many paramedics passed the test immediately? How many succeeded after a first rematch? How much did multiple rematches take? Is the guidance after a failed test sufficient for the aid worker-ambulancier? Do the ambulance services encounter operational problems or difficulties with planning when a colleague from one day has to stop performing his job? How many paramedics who didn't succeed were professional ambassadors? How many of them were volunteers? Do the unsuccessful paramedics retain their full pay after a failed test? What happens to the aid worker-ambulancier when no alternative job is found pending a new passed exam? Are you in favour of the test for professional ambassadors? Are there also periodic evaluations for other aid workers, such as nurses or healthcare professionals? If so, what are the evaluations and what impact do they have on the further performance of their activities? If not, why are these evaluations specific only for aid workers? Are there similar periodic evaluations of aid workers in other countries? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u15	Mr President, Mrs Sneppe, the beginning of my reply is rather numerical. In 2020, 291 paramedics performed the re-evaluation, 246 of which passed the first test. In the second test 30 and 13 passed a third test and after an individual training course. One paramedic didn't pass the third test. In 2019, i.e. the year before, 1,030 auxiliary ambulancers performed the re-evaluation, 823 of which passed the first test, 147 of the second test and 22 of a third test after an individual training course. Eighteen paramedics didn't pass the third test. Mrs Sneppe, I can also give you a table of the figures for 2016, 2017 and 2018. It does not make much sense for me to read all this information, but if you wish, I can send you that table through the committee secretariat. You asked if the counseling for someone who failed would suffice. The aid worker-ambulancier is registered as a profession in the health care professions. The law of 22 April 2019 on quality practice in healthcare places the primary responsibility on the healthcare provider himself. The practitioner is therefore himself responsible for his or her ability and experience. There are instructors present within the ambulance services who can assist individual professionals in their education. The training institutes also offer the possibility to offer individual training pathways in preparation for a sitting time after failure in a five-year test. You also asked if there were any operational problems when someone suddenly had to stop doing that job. Services should indeed seek replacement when a staff member is removed from their work schedule. For example, they also know these difficulties in the absence of illness. The smaller the staff framework, the greater the impact of the removal of a staff member, that makes sense. However, my inspection services do not know of an operational impact on urgent medical care by the disappearance of an aid worker-ambulancier due to the failure of the five-year test. You further asked how many of the unsuccessful persons were professional ambassadors and how many of the volunteers were paramedics. Schools do not distinguish between professionals and volunteers. That division is not kept within the schools, so I cannot answer that question. To your sixth and seventh questions, I must answer that I have no competence with regard to the contractual obligations between ambulance services and their staff. I don't have access to that. That's why I can't answer. In reply to your remaining questions eight, nine and ten, I would like to stress that I am in favour of a high-quality practice in health care. A healthcare professional may only provide healthcare for which he or she has the necessary demonstrable competence and experience. The healthcare professional must therefore keep in a portfolio the necessary information to show that he has the necessary skills and experience. The rules for the portfolio by profession still need to be defined. A possible evidence within such a portfolio may be a certificate of success for a periodic test, or the ability to demonstrate a minimum number of performances within a given period of time, or the ability to demonstrate a minimum number with fruit, including a final test, followed in-service training.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u16	Indeed, Minister, I would appreciate it if you could forward the figures. You have the answer to the written question, so I ask myself why it took so long and I was forced to put my written question orally to get an answer. I hope you will answer these questions more quickly in the future. The answer does indeed contain quite a lot of figures, so I will read its content in the report. If necessary, I will ask a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u17	Mr. Chair, Minister, last July, Proximus launched the Doktr application for remote medical consultations. The app already counts 80,000 downloads today and nearly 13,000 patients are registered. On the other hand, only a dozen doctors are registered on this platform, which reflects the distrust and concern on the part of the union of Francophone general practitioners who see this application as an obvious commercialization of general medicine which short-circuits the whole first line as we imagine, with a privileged link between the patient and his general practitioner. It is not a question of refusing any innovation but, in any case, of supporting it if it promotes the quality of care. Minister, last May you announced that the objective cannot be to contact a doctor arbitrarily to receive a teleconsultation. On the other hand, priority should be given to continuity and quality of care and to limiting such teleconsultations to the only general practitioner who holds the overall medical record (GMD). An INAMI telemedicine working group has been set up to develop a legal framework for reimbursement of telemedicine benefits and to ensure quality care, confidentiality of video exchanges and data transmitted and that teleconsultations take place through the doctor who manages his patient's DMG, with the exception of medical guards. Minister, today the regulatory framework is still not set. Doctors' unions are talking about an agreement for this semester. Can you explain what's wrong? In addition, the GBO Cartel questions whether it would not be appropriate to create a specific code for telephone and video consultations for child care services at this time, since the therapeutic relationship and the issue of DMG do not arise in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u18	Mr President, Minister, this is not the first time I have asked you about the Doktr application, Proximus' remote medical consultation application. If I had asked you about this a few months ago, it is because it is clearly not a tool in the patient's service to better communicate with his doctor but to put the patient in virtual contact with a doctor, which can each time be different. It is therefore a real shift in health policy based on the first line but especially in what makes this policy, for me, the long-term relationship of trust between a patient and his or her attending physician. This type of approach, which is clearly a form of commercialization of general medicine, may also lead to frequent referrals to hospital emergencies. I called on you not to continue in this direction. The least we can say is that there was no intervention on your part in any way. I note, moreover, that the Doktr application is taking proactive steps towards each doctor. I have a letter in front of my eyes and I'll show it to you. It is signed by the Doktr team. One might wonder how they got all the information and addresses of the doctors. In addition, this application is now small, since Ethias is also embarking on this form of commercial health, with a service offered with a first medical opinion by SMS, 24 hours a day, in direct contact with a registered doctor – obviously not the patient's doctor. In addition, they have a marketing service, which offered a free test. It was necessary to register before November 14 to be able to ask a question at any time until March 31, 2022. Minister, this is a real problem. If this is your vision of the first line and the relationship between the patient and his general practitioner, it is certainly not mine at all. As Minister of Health, you have a responsibility to intervene not to allow this type of approach to continue to expand.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u19	Mr President, Minister, I would also like to comment on the Docktr app, launched by Proximus during the pandemic. The pandemic has accelerated everything in terms of electronic health management, e-Health, teleconsultations, videoconsultations, etc. Now you have also recently indicated that there would be abuse in the form of overconsumption of teleconsults by certain doctors, which has recently changed the framework for their reimbursement, at least for the time being. There would be a limitation on the number of consultations per patient, both for video and teleconsultations. This specific app Doctr also raises a number of questions, as colleagues have just mentioned. After all, there is no need for a fixed doctor-patient relationship. We can also ask questions about the fact that such an app is launched by a public authority and is put on the market rather commercially. The app is presented as free, with advertising in a certain way. Like colleagues, I wonder whether this is in line with your vision of health policy. The fact that certificates and regulations can be issued without a doctor ever seeing or knowing a patient also seems to me questionable. I also wonder whether Proximus deserves this and whether it is a core task of a telecom company. Do we know which doctors are connected to Doctor and how many times the app has been used? Could the overconsumption mentioned also be linked to this particular app? This morning, there was a hearing with Proximus on the Mobility Committee, where Proximus explicitly defended this Doktr app and also indicated that they cannot make contact with you. They've contacted us, but you wouldn't respond. Could you explain why and why you didn't respond?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u20	Mr. Chairman, on December 20, 2021, the Insurance Committee approved a new temporary framework for the reimbursement of remote consultations. The current benefit codes that were foreseen at the beginning of the health crisis for triage and the code for continuing care advice are replaced by new nomenclature codes for remote consultations. Benefit codes are provided for video consultations and telephone consultations, with a re-evaluation of the video consultations compared to the telephone consultations. The objective is not to ensure that video consultations replace all traditional consultations. In the area of health care, personal contact, physical examination and face-to-face human communication remain fundamental. However, they can be a useful complement. In order to make rational use of available resources, four telephone consultations and four video consultations are reimbursed annually per patient and per physician. The temporary framework also takes into account the importance of existing gradation of care with providers to ensure quality and continuity of care. In addition, knowing the patient well, having the medical record at a teleconsultation and ensuring continuity of care are also ethical obligations for the doctor. Remote consultations can only be charged if there is already a treatment relationship between the physician and the patient in the physician holding the overall medical record, in another physician in the physician's office, or if there has been a face-to-face contact in the two calendar years preceding the remote consultation. Technical issues for the platforms used, such as clear authentication of the healthcare provider and the patient and compliance with current regulations on privacy and processing of personal and medical data are of major importance in the new nomenclature. Only platforms that meet the minimum requirements and usage rules for remote care platforms formulated by the Information Security Committee and published on the eHealth website will be able to be used for future video consultation. My attitude can be deduced from the existence of a temporary solution. On the one hand, an adequate and immediate solution to some concerns had to be found and, on the other hand, a fundamental reflection on the impact of this new technology on the organisation of medicine had to be carried out. Some questions are equally interesting and interesting. That is why, at the moment, a reflection group is working on a draft paper, which sets out a definitive framework, organizational and financial, for distance consultations. This reflection group consists of representatives of universities, health insurance funds, medical syndicates, the Knowledge Centre and the RIZIV. The reflection group will also and will review the modalities related to quality requirements, technical functionalities, issues of accessibility, subsidiarity, privacy and the optimal financing model. There is an in-depth reflection that responds to a number of questions that you have asked. My view was that it was not possible to find a quick solution to the continuity of this system while at the same time having a very thorough debate. For that very thorough debate we need a little more time and I really want this to be conducted very fundamentally. That is happening now and I will continue to work on the basis of the reflection group's proposal in 2022 on a good, definitive, robust future framework for remote consultations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that a proposal for a short-term regulation has been drawn up, with a view to regulating the situation, and that a more general reflection must be carried out in the longer term. We have to move forward with his time. We found that video consultation had become necessary at a crucial time of the pandemic. On the other hand, this could only remain a further improvement in the relationship between the patient and his or her doctor. Above all, while it can be admitted that application developers are private, their activity requires strict control and supervision, as well as respect for neutrality. Any commercial advertising must be prohibited. It is inconceivable to promote a brand in this field. For this reason, there is an urgent need to develop a legal framework to put an end to this practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u22	Minister, I'm asking you about Doktr, and you answer me by referring to the supervision of the remote consultations. These are two totally distinct debates. First of all, these are the rules of teleconsultation. I have often intervened in this regard. The guarantee of quality work can only be ensured in the presence of a doctor, in a relationship of trust between the doctor and his patient. I was aware of the information you provided us today. For my part, I have always argued for a sound legal framework in order to have clear benchmarks, but that is another question. Today, however, I asked you specifically about Doktr and Ethias, the aim of which is to have a doctor contact a patient on the grounds that the patient needs it, that he does not have time to travel, that he does not want to contact his general practitioner or that he wants to do some medical shopping. It's no longer "Dr. Google," but "Dr. Proximus" or "Dr. Ethias". That seems really problematic to me. One can focus on the first line, trying to improve the relationship of trust between patients and their general practitioner, in order to achieve a higher level of DMG, because it remains weaker in some areas than in others. This is my conception of first line and general medicine. But this system by which any doctor can come into contact with the patient through the application of Ethias or Doktr does not fit into my vision of quality front-line medicine fostering a relationship of trust between the patient and his or her doctor. In my view, you are trying to aggregate the two debates when they are very different subjects. We can and we have to move forward on one. But as far as the other one is concerned, you have to put a stop, which you don't do. In doing so, you give your approval indirectly. Therefore, your vision of front-line medicine and general practitioners poses a real problem to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u23	Minister, it is also specific to me to do that doctor's app, not to do teleconsultation in general. I also did not get an answer to the question whether the outliers could possibly be linked to this app. That would be interesting to know. It is also very strange that one Deputy Prime Minister who is responsible for Proximus is clearly pro and that the other Deputy Prime Minister who is clearly involved and who should guard over the RIZIV budget and the correct handling of care provision is not available. It is very worrying that a public undertaking has committed itself to a framework created to compensate for teleconsultations. It's like they saw an opportunity there and jumped on it. That's really not good. You say that a framework is being worked on. At least a number of principles need to be put forward, such as care continuity, the doctor-patient relationship and deontology. It must be quite clear that these are the basic principles which must at least be followed. I do not understand that you are not taking a position here and that you are not coming up with a framework very quickly. Teleconsultation can be a very valuable addition. I also believe that this can contribute to quality gains, but it must be used properly and only within an existing doctor-patient relationship, i.e. with a doctor who already knows the patient and has already studied it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u24	Minister, this question has been pending for a long time. It is therefore a good time to hear how far you have got in the meantime. You know the figures: the recent Annual Report of the Commissioner for Children's Rights shows a quarter more notifications and complaints by 2021, but also shows that the offer could not follow at all - that is not new, but it is worse than ever - and that more than 23,000 children and young people were waiting for some kind of help at the time. The statements made by the Commissioner for Children's Rights at the time were to the point: she made the comparison with corona that we constantly talk about life and death, while we do not always realize very quickly that there should not be time wasted to provide the necessary care for young people with mental problems. My questions are as follows. At the time, I think you said that, in response to that report, but I am not sure that you were going to release EUR 20 million for additional staff and absorption capacity in children's and youth psychiatry. You then said that every child in need deserves help, and that this happens immediately to a broken arm and should happen equally to mental problems. Can you tell me how the distribution key has now been worked out and how it is going in practice? You also mentioned an interim scaling-up of the recording capacity for urgent psychiatric assistance. You went to work with specialized teams. How's the situation there? For the mobile crisis teams that can get home quickly or even at school, you also went to provide a 50% reinforcement and increase their operating equipment by 75%. How far is that? Do you have any idea how much you can use it to shorten the waiting lists? The question remains whether we consider this to be a sufficient priority and whether, in other words, the budget allocated for this purpose can be sufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u25	Mrs Van Peel, I will first answer your first and third questions together and then return to your second question. Indeed, in April 2021, I announced that the residential provision of care for children and young people with serious and complex mental problems would be intensified. A budget of more than EUR 21.5 million has been allocated to implement two concrete measures. A first measure has increased the staffing framework of child and youth psychiatric services to ensure that more children and young people can be included in residential treatment. Such staff can be deployed both in preparation and awaiting admission, as well as to facilitate the outflow and the transfer of care from a residential setting to home or the home-replacement environment. The staff will then be employed in a so-called bridge function that will provide both care guidance and care transmission to optimise the continuity of care for those young people and their families, and also to reduce the length of admission to the K services. On 15 April 2021, each hospital per eight beds in the paediatric psychiatric services received one additional full-time unit and one additional full-time unit per eight places for day-to-day treatment. In concrete terms, for the whole of Belgium, this amounts to an injection of 212 additional full-time equivalents, of which 109 in Flanders, 42 in Brussels and 61 in Wallonia. A second measure is to provide non-psychiatric hospital services temporarily in 170 places for the care of children and young people with mental problems by using so-called liaison teams from children's and youth psychiatric hospital services. For the creation of liaison teams, 12 hospitals will receive funding from 15 April to create a total of 23 teams of 2.7 full-time equivalents each, so that liaison activities in the child and youth networks in each province of the country are carried out. In doing so, I have given you a factual state of affairs. Your second question is whether EUR 20 million, EUR 21.5 million in concrete terms, meets additional investments to meet the needs of all children and young people with mental problems. It would be very arrogant and wrong to say that this is enough. There's a lot of trouble. At a previous meeting of this committee on 19 October, I listed in a reply to several colleagues all the measures already taken, including the first-line convention on psychological care for children and young people, the temporary measure specifically for students and the strengthening of the crisis teams. All measures together represent nearly €80 million of investment in children and young people. These are both measures to detect and treat psychological problems more quickly and for young people and young adults, where mental problems have developed and even crisis care and even more intensive care is needed. In the discussion of my policy paper, I announced that a further increase in capacity for children and young people is foreseen. I have finished with a sum of EUR 35 million. In doing so, the current programming standard is extended to the age up to 23 years to take into account also the forensic target group, the transition age and the problems of eating disorders. For these latter two themes, specific working groups were set up within the mental health committee for children and young people. The total budget for the mobile crisis teams was increased by 50%, the functioning of the GGKJ networks (Spiritual Health Children and Youth) by 75% and the framework with network psychiatrists by 25%. The capacity for mobile crisis relief was increased by a budget of 4.7 million euros. These funds were allocated from 15 February of last year. My administration is monitoring the realisation of this capacity in the three regions. In Flanders, 80.79 full-time equivalents, 21.82 full-time equivalents in Brussels and 54.82 full-time equivalents in Wallonia. At the end of August, the intended reinforcement of the teams was realised. It goes without saying, Mrs van Peel, that these are very important social issues that need to be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u26	Mr. Secretary, you are taking good steps, each and every one of you. I'm not hiding that. I am also glad that you say honestly that this will not solve the problem entirely. Of course, that is true, but that is not just your responsibility. I do, however, hope that you will follow me on this point, and that, from a social point of view, we have put too much emphasis on physical health and have forgotten too much, including in our budgets, of the importance of mental health care. Especially for children and their development, this is a permanent focus. There is, after all, a distortion which we will have to try to correct for years to come. In any case, I hope that you will continue to pull that cart and that what you have done will soon become clear in the waiting lists. That is a word that should not even exist in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u27	Mr President, in view of the many questions I am referring to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u28	It is true that Child and Family have contacted us on this issue. Child and Family has indicated that it is doubtful to recruit midwifes who graduated after 2018. However, Child and Family have not mentioned any potential impact on the primary vaccination schedule in young children. In addition, the ONE, the French-speaking counterpart, did not identify any problems as the vaccines are administered by doctors there. If vaccination is considered a nurse's act, even if it is carried out by midwife, the restrictive definition in Article 45 (2) of the WUG is decisive. In that article it is stated that midwifes who obtained the diploma after 1 October 2018 may only perform technical nurse acts and the medical actions entrusted to them within the domain of obstetrics, fertility treatment, gynecology and neonatology. As you rightly pointed out, Mrs Muylle, the Federal Council for the Midwifes issued an opinion on this issue in 2018. It considers that, after training, midwifes are competent not to administer vaccines to young children, given the preventive role played by midwifes in mother and child care. However, today's legislation does not provide for a clear age limit for the notion of "the young child." That is what can lead to debate in practice. Given the crucial role played by midwife in mother and child care, coupled with the necessary further professional development of midwifes in the first line, I would like to see whether an extension with a clear age limit can be envisaged with regard to the young child. In the short term, I would like to put a new question of advice to the federal councils concerned. This concerns the Federal Council for the Midwifes and the Supreme Council of Doctors-Specialists and GPs. So I would like to seek advice on this and then look at the basis on which we should take further initiatives, Mrs Muylle.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u29	Minister, I believe that this is a reasonable proposal. So I'm waiting for those advices. You have quite rightly outlined this. As a result of the corona vaccines, we have already taken many workpoints. In the long term, it certainly pays to look at these issues and to fully appreciate the role of the midwife, even for those who graduated after 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u30	Mr President, Minister, I have tabled this question after a number of discussions we have had before and after my written question on inspection reports, to which I have not yet received an answer. The FAGG is responsible for the control and delivery of licences for the production of pharmaceutical raw materials. In our country there are only a few manufacturers of pharmaceutical raw materials active. I would have liked to have received from you the inspection reports of the FAGG, carried out in the years 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021 at the producers of medical raw materials in our country. If you can't get me those inspection reports, I'd like to know why you can't. What sanctions have been laid down? Which decision tree is used when certain anomalies or deviations are identified? Recently, there was a quarantine of pharmaceutical raw materials, due to a deviation that was rightly established by the FAGG. When an anomaly is found in a raw material, will the quarantine of the fate in which the anomaly has been established be carried out? Or are we going to quarantine all the lottery tickets on a particular site? Will all products produced from that raw material be placed in quarantine even if there is a certificate from the producer?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u31	Mr President, Mrs Depoter, without further explanation, my administration can only respond with regard to raw materials used by the official pharmacists and not with regard to active ingredients used by the pharmaceutical industry. The raw materials for official pharmacists are regulated in a royal decree of 1997, so I can say something about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u32	That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u33	The available requested inspection reports have been anonymized and adapted to the law on public administration and the GDPR by the FAGG to send to me. I will deliver these to you through the secretariat of the committee. It's a fairly large bundle, but you asked to be able to see it. Penalties shall depend on the degree of severity of the derogation and the amount of derogations to be determined. A minimum corrective and preventive action plan must be submitted by the firm. The main sanction is the withdrawal of the site's operating licence, for the whole or part of the range of raw materials. Intermediary sanctions may also be imposed, such as closer monitoring of compliance with site regulations, through more frequent inspections, or more targeted measures, such as withdrawal of a lottery ticket or different lots. The classification of shortcomings is described at European level. I refer to the compilation of Union Procedures on Inspections and Exchange of Information, an EEA document from 2021. Our agency's procedures, derived from the example of the European compilation, describe the actions to be taken during the follow-up of the inspection, the preparation of inspection planning, the firm's strict compliance with the regulations, the withdrawal of the licence and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u34	Thirdly, a non-compliant raw material shall be quarantined as soon as the analytical results do not correspond to the values indicated in the monograph. This document describes the physicochemical properties of a pharmaceutical substance and describes the analytical method to perform the tests. It is also possible to detect deviations from good manufacturing practice during the manufacture of a raw material, without this deviation being detectable through analytical results. In either case, it may be necessary to quarantine a lottery ticket, a few lots, or all lots. Everything depends on the analytical results and the nature of what we call the GMP infringements. GMP is, as you know, the good way to produce. Finally, I come to the fourth point. Like any citizen, any company can question an administrative decision. With regard to GMP non-conformity, i.e. a problem with the proper way of production, the firm must be able to demonstrate that no GMP non-conformity has occurred or that it does not affect the quality of the product. In the case of a non-compliant analytical result, the holding may, if it disputes the analytical results of the control laboratory, request re-testing, possibly by another approved laboratory. You will receive the somewhat edited reports for the sake of anonymity and GDPR.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u35	Thank you in advance for sending us the anonymized reports, Minister. This is an important point in my research into the functioning of the service. It is very important that we ensure that proprietary medicinal products are also produced in our own country. In the context of the pandemic, we have all identified the too high degree of dependence on abroad. I attach great importance to what you have said about the decisions that can be taken when certain anomalies are identified. You have said that administrative decisions can always be called into question. However, we should strive to take these administrative decisions only in relation to the anomalies that have been identified so that we do not put our companies facing possible contamination in difficulty at some point. Lots with very clear certificates should still be able to be used and traded. We must be careful not only about safety, but also about workability in the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u36	Questions Nos. 55022989C and 55022990C by Ms. Nawal Farih were deferred.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u37	Mr President, Minister, every year in Belgium, some 15,000 cardiac devices are implanted in patients with heart problems. Some of these patients benefit from remote monitoring of their device, which allows them to reduce the time between the onset of a problem and its management, by going less often to the hospital. According to experts at the Federal Centre for the Expertise of Health Care (KCE), this monitoring does not significantly improve other key parameters such as quality of life, the number of strokes, the number of hospitalizations or mortality in general. This service could also require additional staff compared to conventional follow-up, in particular specialized nurses to manage alerts. Since the benefits of remote monitoring are limited compared to conventional monitoring, the KCE believes that the benefits of doctors and nurses should be reimbursed in the same way as those of heart patients with conventional follow-up. Minister, what do you think of the KCE's suggestion to pay back patients with remote monitoring and those with conventional hospital follow-up in the same way? Is INAMI studying the issue? In its report, the KCE recommends that admission to reimbursement be accompanied by measures to improve the quality of remote monitoring, such as a minimum number of checks, the training of health professionals, etc. What do you think and what measures are possible to take in this direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u38	Mr President, Mrs Zanchetta, the results of the KCE report No 345 entitled Evaluation of Remote Cardiac Monitoring and recently published were presented by the KCE on 7 December during the consultation with the INAMI telemedicine working group. The recommendations will be used in the further development of telemonitoring. We have just discussed the link between telemonitoring and general medicine in a previous question. The results of the pilot project on telemonitoring of covid-19 patients are still awaited. The evaluation is expected in May 2022. Based on the results and recommendations of these two studies, INAMI will develop a general framework for remote monitoring in the course of 2022. Telesurveillance can be a good complement to existing follow-up, not just in cardiology. Today, there are already many mobile medical applications on the market that provide a form of telesurveillance in various areas. In developing the general framework for telemonitoring, it is important to take into account the following aspects: - Interoperability with medical records. - Where are the data stored? - Who has access to the data? - The workload for the care provider. - Avoid a massive spill of non-aggregated data. - Should anyone be available 24 hours a day and 7 days a week in case remote surveillance alerts? It is important to integrate telesurveillance without creating an additional workload for the care provider and without creating a false sense of safety for the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u39	Minister, thank you for your answers that satisfy me and provide some of the elements that I expected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u40	Minister, the WHO has recently warned against a potential shortage of syringes. Indeed, it could be missing from one to two billion syringes. If their production does not follow that of the doses of covid vaccine, this could lead to serious problems, including the slowing down of our vaccination campaign. Minister, do you confirm what the WHO has said? Would we be able to experience a shortage of syringes this year? If so, how do you explain this situation? What impact could this have on our vaccination campaign, but also in the field of medical care in general? Have any initiatives been taken to avoid such shortages in our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u41	Mrs Zanchetta, the amount of syringes needed for our vaccination campaign is sufficient until the end of the current booster campaign, including for the vaccination of children. So I can reassure you. For needs to be covered as early as spring 2022 and for 2023, purchases have been made so that the first deliveries in March will cover future needs. The vaccination campaign will therefore not have to suffer from a lack of equipment. The WHO message also has implications for conventional care. The purchase at this level has been centralized in hospitals and I have very little view of the situation but I do not receive any signal of a problem on the ground at the moment. It is clear that the situation is being closely monitored and that the necessary measures will be taken in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am reassured to learn that for the ongoing vaccination campaign, we will have the necessary equipment, in any case enough syringes, and that there will also be no problem with the ongoing vaccination of children. We will remain very attentive to the rest of the syringe needs of the hospital world in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u43	Minister, among the missing drugs are antibiotics, antihypertensive drugs, cancer treatments, and treatments for Parkinson's disease. These are essential drugs for the health of some patients, since interruption of treatment can have serious consequences that can sometimes lead to death. While several causes may explain this problem, one of them is particularly concerned. Indeed, it seems that some large laboratories voluntarily orchestrate the shortage of medicines. The European Commission - through its Directorate-General for Competition - has focused on Aspen's actions. Their investigation showed that the pharmaceutical company was putting pressure on the ministries of health of the various countries with which it was negotiating in order to increase its profits. For example, in order to continue to be delivered, European states have had to comply with disproportionate increases in the price of medicines: up to 1,500 % in Italy and even 6 400 % in Belgium where the pack of tablets has increased from 1 to 65 euros. In March 2021, the pharmaceutical company was therefore imposed a 73% reduction in the prices of its anticancers by the European Commission. It has also received a fine of EUR 5 million from our Italian neighbours. Mr Minister, like Italy, does Belgium intend to impose a fine on Aspen in order to be compensated? According to your information, are the Aspen Group's methods isolated or is it a familiar practice of large pharmaceutical laboratories? What measures are you considering and what are the status of consultations with the pharmaceutical industry in order to allow a rebalancing of health interests with the interests of pharmaceutical companies and to avoid this kind of drift?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u44	Dear colleague, as far as Aspen is concerned, the European Commission opened an examination procedure in 2021 on tariff practices in respect of six essential anticancer medicinal products whose patents had expired. The Commission's investigation showed that the firm had systematically increased prices from 2012 to extremely high rates, without legitimate justification. The Commission's action was based on a possible infringement of EU competition rules which, under certain conditions, prohibit excessive pricing of customers. Secondly, the Aspen firm - I think you said that - has committed itself to reducing the prices of the medicines in question by an average of 73%. In addition, it will have to meet its commitments for 10 years, and will have to guarantee supply for at least 5 years. During the five-year period following the first period, the firm must either continue to guarantee the supply or make the marketing authorisation available to other suppliers. As regards the follow-up to infringements of the provisions on competition and abuse of a dominant position, I must refer you to the Autorité de la concurrence, which falls within the competence of my colleague in charge of the Economy. For your second question, I would say that the availability of medicines is an ongoing concern, not only at the national level, but also at the European and global level. The causes of unavailability may be multiple, i.e. insufficient production or failure to produce as a result of incidents or a shortage of commodities. As for the management of unavailability, there is a multiple approach with actions on the ground and an adaptation of the legislative framework. In recent years, AFMPS has allocated new resources to managing and monitoring drug unavailability. I would like to remind you in a comprehensive way of the broad lines of management. Since 2013, the Unavailability Working Group has been looking for structural solutions to drug unavailability. Both the resolution of declared unavailability and preventive measures are envisaged. All initiatives and (?) were discussed by the working group. I'll give them. It takes a little time, but I think it can be useful. The decision tree is an analytical methodology based on the extent to which it would be a critical unavailability. The analysis of each unavailability is carried out according to a decision tree of the criticality of the unavailabilitys. On the basis of this decision tree, AFMPS experts assess each unavailability notified by marketing and registration authorisation holders in order to assess their impact on public health. The AFMPS can thus put in place appropriate measures to minimize the consequences of unavailability for patients. This assessment is based on specific criteria that take into account the duration of unavailability, the number of alternative medicines available and the indication. For most packages not available, the expected duration of unavailability is less than one month or there are at least three similar alternatives. As for other unavailable packagings, experts are looking for a solution, such as a drug with another active ingredient, a master preparation or an import of the drug by the firm or pharmacist. In some cases, these recommendations are made for the rational use of the available stock of medicines, e.g. giving priority to certain indications of the available medicine or restricting distribution. That is the case with the methodology by decision tree. This is how I arrive at PharmaStatut, an online platform of the AFMPS which provides better information for health professionals and collects information on the availability of medicines. The results of the criticality analysis of each unavailability and the experts' recommendations are available on the above-mentioned platform. PharmaStatut also provides additional explanations (by an overview of the mouse) in a patient-friendly language on the impact and reason of unavailability. Each citizen can subscribe to a group of drugs or a drug to be informed about changes in availability through automatic emails. The platform also facilitates notifications that companies are legally required to make, at the beginning or end of marketing or in case of unavailability. Since April 2021, pharmacists and wholesale distributors have been able to contact marketing authorisation holders or parallel distributors via PharmaStatut in the event of a suspected shortage or supply problem. The AFMPS follows these reports and is thus better informed about the situation on the ground. In addition, additional measures have been provided for under the Act of 20 December 2019, which provides for additional provisions to limit the unavailability of medicines. This law clarifies the obligation of pharmaceutical companies to supply wholesale distributors in the course of their specific obligations, and pharmacists, within three working days. Partial or interrupted deliveries are automatically considered unavailability and must be reported to the AFMPS. A report must clearly describe the cause and duration of unavailability. Most of the provisions of this 2019 law will be specified by implementing orders, more specifically the transparency of the stocks of wholesale distributors. This order has been issued. It concerns the limitation of exports in case of unavailability, substitution by the pharmacist in case of unavailability, extension of import possibilities via Article 105 of the Royal Decree of 14 December 2006 and compensation for the additional costs of the patient. AFMPS launched a stock tracking tool in May 2021. During the covid-19 pandemic, accurate monitoring of drug stocks was particularly useful. The AFMPS was thus able to act proactively and find solutions in time. This monitoring was done manually until May 2021, but data processing is now automated with a new inventory tracking tool. Data sent by marketing authorisation holders, parallel distributors and wholesale distributors to AFMPS will be processed automatically in the new tool, allowing faster analysis by AFMPS. Stockpiles of drugs that become too low are identified more quickly. There is also a better overview of the availability of alternative medicines in case of a problem. This tool is used for drugs used to treat covid-19. As I said, the unavailability of medicines is not only a problem in Belgium, but throughout the European Union. It even occurs all over the world. This is why there is a systematic consultation and exchange of information at European level. AFMPS experts regularly consult the competent authorities of other European Member States to find common solutions. Mrs Zanchetta, here are two answers to two questions on Aspen and, more generally, on the concern about unavailability, and an overview of the different methods and instruments used to combat unavailability. But the project is still important to be carried out and decrees have yet to be published in compliance with the 2019 law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u45	Minister, thank you for this detailed and lengthy answer. Unavailability remains disturbing for some patients who are prescribed an alternative when they are used to treatment. This may destabilize, but to hear you, it must be recognized that procedures are being implemented to avoid the kind of drift we have known. However, we will follow this unavailability with great attention afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u46	Minister, nearly nine out of ten patients die from pancreatic cancer within five years. One of the difficulties is that there is no method for early detection. His diagnosis is therefore usually too late. The Cancer Foundation believes that pancreatic cancer could be among the top 3 killer cancers in Belgium by 2030. In order to find new treatments for the disease, the Cancer Foundation has funded eight research projects over the last five years, totalling almost €2 million. Two of these projects have recently announced promising results. The first project focuses on the oncogene KRAS, discovered in 1980, which plays a central role in pancreatic cancer, but also in many other types of cancers. The second project focuses on the discovery, in the pancreas of healthy people, of a cell that closely resembles those responsible for the most aggressive pancreatic cancers, which could teach us how they work. Minister, do you confirm the worrying numbers of pancreatic cancer? What are the current treatments for this cancer? The Cancer Foundation recalls the need to fund research against pancreatic cancer. What is your analysis on the subject? What measures are being taken to support the search for new treatments?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u47	Mr Rigot, you are right, this remains a very important issue. Pancreatic cancer is the seventh leading cause of cancer death in industrialized countries worldwide and the fourth leading cause in Europe. Pancreatic cancer has the lowest survival rate among all cancers in Europe. In Belgium, the Cancer Registry Foundation registered 2,028 new cases of pancreatic cancer in 2019, including 1,041 in men and 987 in women. Pancreatic cancer can occur at any age but especially in people over 60 years of age. The Cancer Registry estimates that by 2025, the number of patients diagnosed with pancreatic cancer is likely to reach more than 2,600. This increase is due to the combination of aging and population growth and the increased risk of cancer over time for men and women. In its early stages, pancreatic cancer often goes unnoticed. Symptoms do not usually appear until the tumor has grown and the disease has progressed. There are different types of treatment that may or may not be combined. In about one-fifth of people with pancreatic cancer, surgery may be performed to remove pancreatic cancer and duodenum, provided that the tumour has not spread to neighbouring tissues. Chemotherapy or radiation therapy is often given for tumours that have proliferated. Treatment relieves symptoms in about half of cases, but has virtually no effect on long-term survival. To ease symptoms and, possibly, obstruction of the biliary tract, it is possible to insert a stent and perform surgery to divert the digestive tract where the problem resides. Pancreatic surgery requires special expertise. Various reports from the Federal Centre for the Expertise of Health Care, as well as figures from the Cancer Registry, show that specialized care, including high-tech and high-quality complex surgical procedures, can only be performed if they are performed in an appropriate environment with sufficient expertise, which is continuously applied and improved. As a result, complex pancreatic surgery is concentrated in a limited number of complex pancreatic surgery centers. To this end, INAMI has concluded agreements with 15 hospitals. These centres are able to provide high-quality care 24 hours a day and seven days a week in the fields of surgery, intensive care, anesthesia, nursing and other paramedical disciplines as part of a multidisciplinary approach, with expertise in the treatment of patient care and follow-up. With regard to the 2008 Cancer Plan, an update of the amount is not foreseen, but the European Commission's programmes such as "Europe's Beating Cancer Plan" and "Mission on Cancer" have made it possible to take initiatives in all areas of cancer, which can contribute to improving cancer treatment in Belgium. The Sciensano Cancer Centre will identify, in consultation with stakeholders, pilot and research projects that can eventually lead to policy initiatives. In order to identify those most appropriate, a specific needs barometer will be developed to map them within the framework of the national cancer policy. Secondly, it will be examined to what extent the results of research projects can be effectively integrated into Belgian cancer policy. On 29 October, the launch of the mirror group, which will carry out these activities, was given. I am very interested in the advancement and results of his work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u48	Minister, thank you. I am pleased to note the importance you attach to the studies that have been carried out, and the need to act as quickly as possible for prevention. As you say, today, the only response that can work to eradicate pancreatic cancer is, unfortunately, surgery. It can only intervene if a rapid and anticipated diagnosis has been established. I am pleased to see the follow-up to these studies and projects, and the new measures that can be implemented to diagnose as quickly as possible and therefore adopt the most relevant response, namely surgical intervention. We need to be able to achieve positive results.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u49	Mr President, Minister, in an increasingly connected world, teleconsultations have become a reality, certainly because of the health crisis we are going through. However, questions arise as to their guidance. Apart from the care provided during the day-care period, the ABSyM requests that those provided by telephone or video conferencing be reimbursed only when they have been preceded by a face-to-face visual consultation. The position of the ABSyM is explained by the risk of commercial exploitation of this type of consultation. I was able to read in the press that you had appointed a think tank to look into the issue and I agree with this initiative. The group is expected to present a note by the end of March 2022. In addition, the association is concerned about the termination of the telephone teleconsultation reimbursement scheduled for January 1, 2023. However, these consultations remain largely majority because of the digital divide, as everyone is unfortunately not familiar with using a computer or simply unable to afford one. It's a reality! Minister, can you communicate the number of teleconsultations by telephone and online since the beginning of the pandemic? Can you already confirm the end of the reimbursement of this type of teleconsultation as of January 1, 2023? Finally, what objectives have been set for the work of this working group?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u50	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prévot, it would have been preferable to include this question with a cluster of questions that I answered an hour ago. With respect to the number of teleconsultations, the definition of teleconsultation does not distinguish between a video consultation and a telephone consultation. In 2020, there were 10,475,000 teleconsultations. Then you ask if I can confirm that this type of tele-consultation has been repaid on January 1, 2023. No decision was made as to the termination of the reimbursement of this type of teleconsultation on that date. As you said, in October 2021, I asked to launch a think tank whose mission is to look at a vision note for an optimal model of funding and organizing video calls in general practitioners' offices. A conceptual proposal is expected by the end of March 2022. Subsequently, a phased operational plan will be put in place with stakeholders to integrate this concept into the reimbursement for the year 2023. The think tank should develop a conceptual proposal which answers the following questions, among other things. I'll read you the questions I asked. What are the objectives of the video consultations? In other words, why do we especially want to use video-consultations in the practice of general medicine with a view to the quality and accessibility of care? What should be the place for video calls in a general practice today and how can they be paid and organized at best? Is a capitation model or even a population model appropriate, and if so, is it possible to rely on the DMG? What is the framework? How will the video consultation funding model interfere with the current consultation funding model? For example, should an optimal ratio between remote consultations and physical consultations be considered? What counter-productive effects can be expected and how can they be mitigated? Should the on-the-job funding model for physical consultations also be adapted in order to have a coherent model for all types of consultation? How to deploy video-consultations in a context of budgetary neutrality? What budget should be provided for video consultations? What impact will this have on the budget for physical consultations? How can a balance be struck between funding the availability of general practitioners, physical consultations and technical services? Is a uniform deployment the best solution or should a differentiated approach be considered, taking into account the patient's profile, the geographical location of the practice of general medicine? For example, should the urban context be differentiated from the rural context, etc.- Is that what you're saying? How can video-consultations be made available to all patients? What thresholds should be set and how? How can the patient's freedom of choice be reconciled with the importance of a therapeutic relationship with caregivers? How can the patient be encouraged to consult as far away as possible with his or her reference general practitioner who holds the DMG for consultations? How to ensure maximum transparency for the patient at both the notice, prescription and billing levels? Finally, how can we ensure that general practitioners and patients have access to a secure and stable video call platform? It is therefore a long list of questions which show, Mr Prévot, that this is really a rather fundamental debate on the future of general medicine because there are so many interactions between these issues that start from the development of a new technology and the overall organisation of general medicine that I thought it was useful to launch this think tank. I hope to receive a comprehensive and inspiring report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u51	Minister, thank you for your answer. I said in my question that I found it interesting to have this time to answer the many questions that you have been able to put to the working group and which you have read us the long list. Indeed, it is essential to conduct this debate today on the future of the organisation of tomorrow's medicine. In the elements I note, the absence of any distinction between video and telephone teleconsultations is particularly evident. Therefore, there will be no discrimination in order to overcome difficulties such as the digital divide. For the moment, no decision has been taken as to the end of the reimbursement, since this should come from the conclusions of the Reflection Group. These are many questions that the think tank will have to answer, and I will certainly come back to you, if necessary, when we have the answers to all these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u52	Mr. President, Minister, a recent investigation conducted by Test-Achats reveals many problems with botox injections and other fillers, while these practices appear to be increasing. Some caregivers do not ask enough questions about clients' medical history. However, there are a number of cases where botox and fillers are strongly discouraged. In addition, many clinics apply degressive prices when treatment involves more than one area of the face. Some doctors even offer free consultation if they subscribe directly to a treatment or issue a certificate of care for the mutual fund which entitles them to a refund. However, these attractive practices are prohibited by law because they are purely aesthetic consultations and treatments. On the other hand, physicians should not take any specialized training to inject botox and fillers, whereas these treatments are not limited to injections. In this sense, more stringent training requirements were discussed in 2013, but no legislation was finally introduced. Minister, do you consider it necessary to put on the table more stringent training requirements for doctors who inject botox and fillers? How do you react to these degressive pricing systems and to INAMI's reimbursement for these purely aesthetic practices? Do you consider it necessary to charge the Public Health FPS, the Economy FPS or the AFMPS to better control the quality of cosmetic filling products in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u53	Mr. Secretary, Test Purchase has deployed mystery shoppers at 33 beauty clinics. It was noted that no account was taken of the patient' s history. However, this is important because not everyone tolerates such products. Some people go very far for the filter and forever young company. We must also be medically trained in our country to be able to inject botox and fillers, but there are no conditions attached to that, so that all doctors in these clinics can call themselves aesthetic physicians without any training. In addition, many clinics apply degressive prices if they allow more than one zone to be treated, if they come with more than one person or if they are treated immediately during the initial examination. It shouldn't be in medical practice. Then I'm not talking about the cases of fraud. In 8 out of 33 clinics, a certificate is awarded to the sickness fund, which is entitled to a refund, which is not possible for a purely aesthetic reimbursement. Have you taken note of the research of Test Purchase? The previous government would work on additional training criteria for aesthetic doctors. None of that has come into the house yet. Will the government take care of that now? What is your response to advertising practices in that sector such as low-cost tariffs? Such practices cannot be allowed to happen. This was an investigation of Test Purchase. Will the Public Health Office carry out more checks?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u54	Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u55	Mr Minister, according to Test Purchase research, non-therapeutic interventions with botox and fillers are already being carried out for aesthetic reasons. Sometimes there are complications. Often it is also dealt with in a fairly commercial way, with discounts for multiple treatments. One may wonder whether this is deontological, especially since such practices are addictive to some people. It is not entirely clear to me what kind of diploma one should have in order to be able to administer such products. I thought sometimes the shots are also carried out by non-doctors. Do you have an overview of the improper administration of these products? Who's controlling that? The products do not always appear to be subject to control or supervision by the Agency. Why is that? Can it be remediated? Have any problems been identified with the products used? Are there any figures on the improper use of the nomenclature? Can you explain that? There has also been talk for a long time since the previous legislature of the establishment of a medical aesthetic board. This would require training to administer, approve and partially control such products. The recent draft law which contains various provisions seems to have deleted that proposal. The board of medical aesthetics is not there; the task would be assigned to the Supreme Health Council. If that is the case and if the Supreme Health Council is prepared to do so, if I have any doubts as to whether there is a need to set up a medical aesthetic board to deal with this complex problem after one or two years? The professional associations would also have doubts that a general practitioner may administer botox or fillers. They fear that the use of medicine is not entirely correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u56	Indeed, the public authorities must be very vigilant in terms of the quality of the offer in aesthetic interventions, all the more so because a provision with an aesthetic purpose which is not refundable by compulsory health insurance is expressly excluded from the scope of the Law of 31 March 2010 on compensation for healthcare damages. In addition, only doctors are competent for aesthetic non-healing interventions. The Act of 23 May 2013 then determines which doctors may perform what interventions in which anatomical region on the basis of their competences and professional title. Surgeons and plastic surgeons have a very broad authority. For other disciplines, that competence is more defined. Doctors have long been expected to have the necessary professional care and certain liability considerations and the code of medical duties set out the chalk lines for this. I also recently took an initiative to implement Article 10 of the Law of 23 May 2013 on Aesthetic Medicine, which includes a new occupational specification as a physician specialist in non-healing aesthetic medicine. For a regulated professional qualification, final qualifications must be obtained and a certain training course must be followed in recognised placements and in recognised internships. The recognition criteria for the new specialism have still not been published. Article 10 of the Act provides for a level 2 title, in which the professional training can be followed by any selected doctor who holds the diploma in medicine. In a 2016 opinion, the Hoge Raad voor geneeren-specialisten en gpsen argued that, as a condition of access to the training for the new title, the candidate should already have a level 2 professional qualification, i.e. either a general practitioner or a specialist. This would have benefits in terms of wider diagnostic and therapeutic experience. However, to follow that advice, a legislative amendment to Article 10 is required. Through the draft law, I took the initiative to prepare a legislative amendment to that effect. As long as the announced professional title is not developed non-healing aesthetic medicine, each master in medicine shall have the power to perform all non-healing aesthetic medical interventions and the aesthetic-healing interventions referred to in Article 10 (2). The law provides for transitional measures. The proportionality test procedure will have to be followed before the new title is created. The Law of 23 May 2013 also provides for a clear regime on the required information and a weighted procedure for informed consent of the patient and on practical information that is permitted under strict conditions, as opposed to advertising and recruitment of patients. The law also provides for criminal sanctions. You ask whether the controls will be stepped up. The inspection services of the Federal Public Health Service already carry out checks to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Law of 23 May 2013. These inspections are often initiated on the basis of complaints from patients or complaints from other healthcare professionals. It's actually just a handful of files a year. Of course, doctors performing aesthetic services must also respect all other regulations, including health insurance reimbursement conditions. The RIZIV inspection services are well developed and will be alert as soon as undue tarification is noted. It was asked whether it is true that there is no quality control on the products used, or whether they often escape quality control, how that is done and how I want to remedy it. First of all, a distinction must be made between botox and fillers. Botox is a registered medicine. The distribution chain of medicinal products is strictly regulated. A medicinal product must always be delivered via the pharmacy, in accordance with its delivery status. Since it is therefore a registered medicinal product, all checks on medicinal products are applicable, such as good manufacturing practice, good distribution practice and good official practice, all of which must ensure the quality of the medicinal products. Fillers can currently be on the market under two statutes. On the one hand, there are fillers with a medical purpose, such as a filler for the filling of scar tissue, which are on the market as a medical device. On the other hand, there are purely cosmetic fillers, which are present on the market as a general consumer product. The new European legislation on medical devices already provides that all fillers will be covered by medical device regulation. These rules shall not enter into force until common standards have been published. The FAGG is currently only competent for the fillers placed on the market as a medical device. The distribution circuit of medical devices is free, but every economic operator has an obligation to ensure the safety of the goods on the EU market. The FAGG shall carry out inspections on all market participants in the chain. The FAGG is also working on legislation for the purchase and quality assurance of medicines and medical devices by healthcare institutions that are not recognised hospitals. Such rules already exist for approved hospitals, but not yet for other healthcare institutions. Secondly, with regard to the reimbursement by the Inami, I can inform you that the Inami has recently had a web page to which its employees can refer systematically. It clearly states that health care insurance does not reimburse aesthetic benefits. Doctors cannot charge him for consulting Botox or girls for aesthetic purposes and cannot issue a certificate of care for this purpose. It is forbidden to grant such benefits for benefits which are neither curative nor preventive. The legislation on this subject is very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u57	Minister, thank you for providing us with a snapshot of the situation. You recalled that the exclusive aesthetic services were not refundable. Nevertheless, the Test-Achats investigation shows that some doctors are exceeding this prohibition, since they issue a certificate of care to qualify for a refund. Such abuses should therefore be monitored more closely. You spoke about the blurring of training and internships, recalling the lack of clear criteria. You went back to the opinion given in 2016 by the Higher Council of Physicians, which called for a level 2 qualification. This is a very important and positive reminder since you have planned a legislative amendment to this famous section 10. It is true that everything will not be settled, but it will make it possible to clarify certain points. This is a good initiative, which I thank you for. With regard to products used for aesthetic purposes and which may not be subject to quality control – which does not apply to products that are part of Botox's composition or to girls for medical purposes, for example to fill the scars – but to girls with purely aesthetic purposes, you recalled that the Agency was competent only for girls with a medical purpose. It is important to achieve harmonisation between the Communities and the Regions in this respect. We will have to deal with this problem in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive state of affairs. I am particularly pleased that steps have been taken forward and that you are working on the approximation of legislation. Like Mr Prévot, I am concerned about fraud, where doctors charge a wrong consultation to health insurance. The government must be very vigilant about this and we must try to close as many holes as possible. Finally, what raises very big questions is advertising practices, such as two for the price of one. In my opinion, such practices do not belong in our medicine or in our care. We also need to deal with this as strictly as possible. In any case, we have learned a great deal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed explanation. I fully agree with you that the government should be alert. It is not for nothing that only doctors are authorized to do the procedures with botox and with fillers. We must not give in to this. I also believe that commercial actions, advertising and discounts for such interventions do not belong in our healthcare system. Those practices are rightly prohibited and should continue to be prohibited. Even if the sample of Test Purchase was reasonably limited, 33 providers were visited, it is worrying that in 8 of those clinics a medical certificate was obtained for a refund. I also think that's fraud. Indeed, we cannot be strict enough for that. It is therefore a good thing, Minister, that you will tighten up the rules further. Thanks a lot.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u60	This is a very complex domain, not only because of the variety of products. That's how Botox and fillers need to be looked at differently, you said yourself. In addition, there are two types of fillers, medical and cosmetic fillers, which are also subject to different regulations. In addition, new technologies are constantly emerging in non-surgical aesthetic medicine. I am certainly not in favour of constantly setting up new bodies. In this sense, I would initially be inclined to assign the task of control to the High Council. However, given the complexity of all these products and technologies, the attractiveness of a commercial offer of such treatments and the constant movement of such practices, it is important to consider whether the High Council considers itself capable of working properly, monitoring and defining the lines. I therefore propose that, after a few years, we look at whether the scheme is sufficient in this way, or whether there should be a separate council.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u61	Mr. Chair, Minister, HIV treatment research is fortunately continuing to progress. In France, for example, patients affected by HIV will soon be able to receive an intramuscular injection every two months (combined with two antiretroviral drugs), instead of taking daily medicines, following the green light given by the European Union. In our Hexagon neighbours, not every patient will necessarily be eligible. Some conditions will have to be met, such as not having co-infection with hepatitis B or mutation, drug resistance, but clinical trials of this injectable combination therapy are encouraging and provide greater ease for patients. Studies are underway to evaluate the efficacy of an injection every six months for some patients. Minister, could this injectable combination therapy be available in Belgium in the near future? If so, within what time frame? What will then be the eligibility criteria for HIV patients? Will they be similar to those established in France?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u62	Mr President, Mr Prévot, the European Medicines Agency gave a positive opinion on the basis of which the European Commission approved Vocabria (cabotegravir) and Rekambys (rilpivirine) on 17 December 2020. These two medicines are marketed in Belgium. Since 1 September 2021, Vocabria and Rekambys have been listed in Belgium as reimbursable medicinal products. In Belgium, the reimbursement criteria related to the eligibility of patients are as follows: specialties are reimbursed for the treatment of adult beneficiaries infected with HIV with viral suppression reaching HIV RNA concentration < 50 copies/ml, under stable antiretroviral therapy, without proof of resistance and without current or passed virological failure to agents of the NNRTI and INI class, in whom the treating physician carefully selected the adult beneficiary who will be eligible for treatment sometimes intramuscular every eight weeks on the basis of the combination of cabotegravir 600 mg and rilpivirine 900 mg, and who accepted the required injection regimens and the importance of adherence to scheduled administration visits. The criteria are therefore not entirely identical to those established in France, but they are in the same spirit. The criteria proposed by the Commission for the reimbursement of medicinal products, which I took up in my decision on the reimbursement of this dual therapy, make it possible to ensure the effectiveness of the treatment and adherence of the patient to the schedule of visits and injections of this dual injectable therapy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u63	Minister, thank you for taking stock of these treatments. I had indeed been questioned by an article published a few weeks ago on these intramuscular injection treatments in France. Beyond the fact that the European Medicines Agency gave a positive opinion two years ago, I mean that these two medicines are available and reimbursable in Belgium and that the conditions of eligibility are somewhat different from those of France but in any case follow the same logic. Thank you for that information. I would like to remind you that, as of today, we are still unable to treat HIV patients, but that science continues to progress, which is why I remain very attentive to these new treatments and that I regularly come back to you to test innovative treatments.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u64	Question No 55023055 by Mrs Merckx is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u65	Minister, we have talked about the impact of the corona crisis on the diagnosis and treatment of cancer tumours. I find the article published in The Guardian on 26 November on the impact of the covid crisis on the prevalence of advanced breast tumours particularly special. That report clearly indicates that the number of breast tumours detected or diagnosed increased by 48 % at stage 4. On the other hand, fewer diagnoses at stage 1, i.e. less advanced tumours, have been identified. The predictions of the course of the disease in stage 1 and stage 4, I do not have to tell you, are completely different. I would like to hear from you what actions you have taken to combat this phenomenon, which we see all over the world and therefore also in our country. Have you ordered a number of investigations? Is the concrete impact of the pandemic on the number of diagnosed tumours and on the stage of diagnosis documented in our country? Have you given instructions to draw up a detailed plan to prevent late diagnosis and to prevent the breakdown in cancer patients' therapy? If that is the case, when can we expect that plan? What does it look like in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u66	The article in The Guardian to which you refer shows a number of estimates of Macmillan Cancer Support, an NGO dedicated to cancer patients, on the stage of diagnosis of breast cancer during a period from June 2020 to June 2021 in the United Kingdom compared to the prepandemic period. The situation is indeed clear. An increase in the number of diagnoses at an advanced stage and a decrease in the number of diagnoses at an earlier stage are reported. In Belgium, cancer data are recorded by the Cancer Register. Full figures for a given year are only available after two years. That is the time needed to process the data. The most recent full figures available are those for the year 2019. The cancer register was able to map the impact of COVID-19 on the number of new cancer diagnoses in Belgium by 2020 thanks to the accelerated delivery of data from the laboratories for pathological anatomy. This shows that in 2020, compared to 2019, overall 6% fewer cancer diagnoses were made. This means an estimated 4,000 missing diagnoses in absolute figures. The impact of the first covid wave was most pronounced there. The first figures from 2021, until April, still show a deficit of 4 %, which means that a catch-up movement has been started. One of the factors that can contribute to the reduction of early diagnosis is the cessation of cancer screening programmes organised by the Länder. That happened in the first wave to safeguard hospital capacity. Population studies on breast, cervical and colon cancer were suspended in mid-March and gradually resumed from mid-May. The age groups eligible for these population studies for breast cancer are 50 to 69 years of age and for colon cancer 50 to 74 years of age............................................................................................................................................................. By the end of 2020, the decline in the number of new cancer diagnoses in the screening target groups was comparable to the general population, respectively 6% for breast cancer and 12% for colon cancer. For both breast cancer (-4 %) and colon cancer (-11 %), the catch-up movement continued at the beginning of 2021. You will find these figures and more details on the Cancer Register website and in the publication of the study by Peacock and others in ESMO Open. The Cancer Register has been able to analyse only diagnostics so far. In order to assess the stage of diagnosis, the clinical data from the oncological care programmes are required. These are provided at a later time, six months after the year of incidence. They were therefore not available for 2020 at the time of this study. The Cancer Register will give priority to the processing of these data, so that they can be available faster than in normal circumstances. Late diagnosis and treatment of cancer during the pandemic is caused by delay in care by the patient himself for fear of infection and delay by the treating physician due to the need to ensure hospital capacity for the care of covid patients. For the patient's own delay, we must keep repeating that care in the hospital is organised safely and that care for covid and non-covid patients is carried out through different circuits. Surgical treatments are also delayed in the current wave by the need to ensure hospital capacity for the care of covid patients. Of course, that is not the most optimal treatment we want to give our patients. It leads to personal dramas and that does not contribute to the patient's mental well-being, nor to that of the caregivers. Cancer patients are a particularly vulnerable group in this pandemic. Figures about the medical relapse and delay due to covid are kept up to date by the RIZIV in collaboration with the FPS Public Health. A clear understanding of the delays in the diagnosis and treatment of cancer is necessary in order to know the health impact. On 12 January, HELICON organised a webinar in which the latest findings on cancer care disturbances in Belgium and related health effects were communicated. However, the impact on the outcome of the treatments will only become apparent later when we have long-term data on this period. Actually, my answer to the basic question is simple and at the same time perhaps a bit frustrating. Avoiding delay of treatments due to delay of non-urgent care can only be combated by reducing virus circulation by applying measures to control and vaccination of as large a proportion of the population as possible. It should also be noted that it is important for hospitals to cooperate and, where possible, for patients to be referred to a hospital where treatment can take place. Life-saving interventions and therapies such as radiotherapy and chemotherapy usually take place as planned. Oncologists can also apply customized treatment regimens such as preoperative chemotherapy in some cases, which reduces the impact of delay of surgery on the outcome of treatment for the patient. This can be a mitigating factor, but the basic problem remains, of course, that if hospital capacity is under too much pressure, certain concerns will be postponed. I think we should all fight against virus circulation in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u67	Minister, your answer is as frustrating as it is sad, especially for the patients in question. You don't give numbers and you refer to the state as the culprit.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u68	Please, Mrs. Depoorter! Have I blamed the states somewhere? Where did I do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u69	You have literally mentioned the closure of screening by the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u70	I didn't say this was wrong, I said this had to do with the pandemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u71	You have made it very clear that this has led to fewer tumours.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u72	I said this had something to do with the pandemic. I didn't say they were guilty. I know you're having a hard time with it, but just try to listen.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u73	Minister, I am listening very carefully. Who decided that the continuity of care could not be guaranteed? You decided that together with the states in the National Security Council. However, you did not ensure that an overview was created of where cancer patients could go for treatment and screening. I had a conversation with a couple of hospitals in Orlando last week. At a glance you can see at 200 hospitals which beds are available and which therapies can be given. You didn't do anything about it. For all those patients who now have a much less chance of healing, it is a shame that so little has happened to the oncological treatments in this country during the COVID-19 pandemic. Unfortunately, in the future, we will have to establish excess mortality. If you do not now have figures on the stage at which the tumors are diagnosed, then that is really a failure. You may not like hearing that, but you do. You haven't taken any steps. You have organised a webinar, but nowhere is there any concrete, clear indication that you have brought resilience to this vital part of our healthcare system. For years, oncologists, the pharmaceutical sector and all scientists have been looking for treatments for tumors. The success of therapy is always based on patient survival after five years. A two-year delay is therefore huge. It is a pity that you are avoiding this even in your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u74	Questions No 55023134C by Mrs Sofie Merckx and No 55023355C by Mrs Nathalie Muylle were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u75	In developing the highly specialised care for rare diseases, it is important to establish centres of expertise embedded in the wider framework of rare diseases functions and European reference networks. This course was used in the previous legislature on the basis of the National Action Plan Rare Diseases and Orphan Drugs. In order to ensure cooperation between the centres of excellence functions and European networks, data exchange is obviously also necessary. On the basis of these data, scientific research is offered every opportunity. The centres will have a better view of the epidemiological evolution and patients will be able to check where the necessary expertise on a particular rare disease is available. A further step has now been taken. The European Commission has made the creation of a European Health Data Space one of its top priorities and in this area there will be the necessary attention to rare diseases. For this, it is of course very important that the central data systems are inter-operational, or at least become. Secondly, the uniformity of the coding and recording of data is crucial. A third principle is that both providers and patients are sufficiently digitally literate. A final principle concerns the confidential use of the data and its transparency. My questions are as follows: Will the criteria for the implementation of centres of expertise for rare diseases take into account data connectivity in the framework of these European reference networks and participation in the Central Register for rare diseases at Sciensano? To what extent does the eHealth plan of the federal government already take into account this development in the European Health Data Space? Will you argue to the European authorities and to your colleagues that rare diseases should also be included in the development of the European Health Data Space?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u76	Research into rare diseases requires by definition a thorough cooperation, both for epidemiological reasons and for scientific research. Not least to allow the expertise available in Belgium to be mapped out. The Central Register for Rare Diseases at Sciensano currently operates only on the basis of data from the Human Heritage Centres. This is, of course, not enough to give a complete picture of the situation in Belgium. It is therefore important to take into account participation in the Central Register when determining the criteria for centres of expertise. For rare diseases, international approaches and cooperation across national borders remain important. The European reference networks were set up in 2017 and form a virtual network of healthcare providers for exchange on complex or rare diseases. From Belgium, 97 expert teams from 10 hospitals are currently participating in the 24 networks. The international component will thus also be an important element in the definition of criteria for centres of excellence. Work is currently underway on a roadmap of eHealth 2022-2024, but also on a roadmap of health data and healthcare data 2022-2024. The definition and implementation of the Belgian Health Data Authority, which will form the national interface with the European Health Data Space, is central. There is already an agreement with the five federal institutions that work with health data: the FPS Public Health, the RIZIV, the FAGG, Healthdata.be of Sciensano and the KCE. In addition, consultations are now being extended with other partners, including insurance institutions, the Länder, other federal institutions such as Belspo and Statbel, and private companies. I have no doubt that the European Commission will draw on and build on experience from existing European initiatives, including from the European reference networks, when developing the European Health Data Space. The European Health Data Space certainly provides an opportunity for rare diseases to enable cooperation on rare diseases across the EU.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u77	Minister, we have indeed come a long way since 2017, when the European networks for rare diseases were established. Even then, many Belgians were active in this. I'm glad the number has increased. You have already made preparations for the next steps. I expect that for a lot of things, but certainly for rare diseases, more data exchange and more information, patients themselves or the parents of young patients will be able to help speed up their diagnosis and help.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u78	Minister, my question is about the impact of physiotherapy costs on patients of physiotherapists who are not in agreement. This implies lower reimbursement rates for patients (25%). However, physiotherapists complain that they have not been sufficiently taken into account in the INAMI budget. As a result, there is concern that a number of physiotherapists will deconcentrate, which would mean an increase in the number of patients who would have their physiotherapy costs increased. Minister, do you have consultations with physiotherapists associations? What are the solutions to prevent the patient from losing quality and accessibility of care? I know that the quality law would abolish this difference in reimbursement, but its entry into force was postponed to July 2022. Finally, what is the status of physiotherapy for long covid cases? I am thinking in particular of respiratory rehabilitation. How many sessions can be reimbursed for these patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u79	Mr Bacquelaine, negotiations are under way to conclude, within the budgetary framework in force, a national convention for physiotherapy for the years 2022 and 2023. The Convention Commission meets regularly to try to reach this agreement. Since AXXON is the only recognized professional organization to be represented, its delegates play a decisive role in the possible conclusion of the convention. The health care insurance budget 2022 is an important first step towards reform of the allocation of the health care budget. This year is a transitional year, pending further steps towards health care objectives, appropriate care and a multi-year budget. As part of the multi-year fiscal trajectory of health care 2022-2024, the issue of removing the minimum 25% rule was referred to the working group of the committee concerned. The result of the sheet concerned was forwarded to the Convention Commission on 19 August. The above-mentioned deletion proposal was considered by the members of the working group to be insufficiently robust. As a result of this finding, he was given a red light. Thus, the M/21 Convention did not provide that the 25% rule would be deleted altogether. However, a debate on the subject had been scheduled. It did happen. One of the main aims of my administrations is to reach agreements and agreements in each sector that are attractive to service providers, among other things. The conclusion of such agreements and agreements should lead to high rates of agreement, thereby ensuring access to quality care at correct prices. INAMI, in collaboration with its partners, is currently working on a proposal for a sound and feasible scientific approach for the management of post-covid patients, among others, in physiotherapy. It will take a while. It will certainly be necessary to check to what extent a review of the number of individual physiotherapy sessions reimbursed at the best reimbursement rate can be integrated. The technical implementation of integration into the health care nomenclature, specific regulations and the duration of measures (structural or temporary) still need to be examined. They will depend on the approach that has been preferred and agreed upon. As regards the budgetary aspect, an amount of EUR 13 730 000 is allocated to several projects in the field of secondary and tertiary prevention in the first line, in the 2022 budget. Measures for the care of post-covid patients could be financed through this budget. Kinesitherapy will play a role in this context, but the contributions of the various sectors have not yet been determined.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u80	It is problematic that patients, because their physiotherapist is or is not contracted, have completely different rates of reimbursement. For doctors, this is not the case. Reimbursement for patients, for a visit to a contracted or non-conventional physician, is the same. I do not fully understand the logic of this difference in treatment between physiotherapy care and physician care. This should be flattened at some point so that it is not the patients who suffer the inconvenience of this issue. In fact, I think that if you want physiotherapists to agree more closely, it might be appropriate for physiotherapy care in certain areas to be better taken into account in the budget allocations, and for the budget for physiotherapy to create a certain attractiveness for the status of contracted physiotherapist. As far as covid-19 is concerned, I am pleased that at some point we will be able to better consider respiratory rehabilitation in physiotherapy for patients with the sequelae of covid-19 and long covid. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u81	Mr Minister, the nomenclature provides for specific nomenclature numbers for nurses' benefits in kind provided in a temporary or permanent common place of residence or residence. These benefits are lower than the same benefits provided at the patient's place of residence and no reimbursement is provided for weekend or public holidays benefits. The question is whether the definition of temporary or permanent common residence or residence of disabled persons is not in need of revision, given the evolution of the policy towards persons with disabilities in Flanders. In Flanders, the personal budget was introduced a few years ago, allowing people with disabilities to opt for forms of housing where they live more or less independently, to be allocated a separate apartment with a separate charge of rent and electricity, but where the apartments are grouped into one building. These are, of course, apartments adapted to the needs of people with disabilities and created with building formulas that limit housing costs to a maximum. In other words, these forms of housing are not comparable to the traditional facilities for persons with disabilities and therefore, strictly speaking, are not covered by the definition of temporary or permanent common residence or residence. At least I think so, but perhaps you'll contradict me later. When reviewing the nomenclature for these nursing benefits, will you also consider the adaptation of the definition of temporary or permanent common residence or residence, as was also requested in the resolution for first-line nurses which we adopted a while ago? What is the state of play with regard to the revision of the nomenclature of nursing benefits in kind? What's the timing on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u82	Mr De Caluwé, the project was launched in 2019 with regard to the structural reform of the nomenclature of medical benefits in kind for doctors. This project is progressing and will serve as a basis for restructuring the nomenclature of other sectors, including nurses and home nurses. The structural reform of the health care nomenclature is therefore a major challenge for the coming years. Important issues are updating and adapting the nomenclature to developments in medical activity and the new models of care provision, e.g. telemedicine, multidisciplinary care, internal logic, readability and transparency of the nomenclature, and introducing incentives that promote cooperation and quality. A possible adaptation of the definition of a temporary or permanent common place of residence is certainly a point which can be taken into account in the discussions which should lead to a structural reform of the nomenclature of home nursing. A precise timing for this reform has not yet been established. The representatives of the home care sector and the insurance institutions are, of course, free to put forward certain proposals and positions already in the Committee on Nurses' Insurance Agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u83	Minister, it is indeed important that we evolve with the forms of housing. For a lot of people with disabilities, this way of living is a real added value. It therefore seems logical to me that the nurses, but also the disabled themselves, should be treated in the same way as those who really are in an institution. Hopefully there will be a breakthrough. I understand the message that proposals can also come from the home nurses themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u84	Mr President, Minister, a few months ago I asked you a question about Philips' breathing equipment, which is used for sleep apnea and with which there were a lot of problems. Research showed that the foam would release certain chemicals which would be carcinogenic. You replied extensively to my questions at that time. You said that there was insufficient evidence and that the chances of the chemicals being inhaled were small and that there would be no serious acute toxicological health risk associated with the use of the devices. The medium- and long-term effects would require additional research. Nevertheless, Philips did a recall action worldwide. In Belgium, some 70,000 aircraft would be in circulation. Your reply also showed that Philips' allocation plan would start at the end of September 2021 and would be fully completed by September 2022. We are now hearing that there are concerns about the devices that are being recalled and which are now given a silicone layer to dampen the noise. The FDA has rediscovered a problem for a few weeks. In tests, the silicone foam used to repair the device would not be safe because too many chemical gases are released. Consequently, the FDA calls for additional research. It is also said that Philips had been aware of the risks for years. Minister, what is the current status of the recall plan? How do you deal with the additional information that the solution might also pose risks?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u85	Mr President, Mrs Muylle, the FAGG, like all other competent European authorities, has now received an updated allocation plan. That plan still has September 2022 as its final date. According to Philips' latest state of play on its implementation, 1.366 replacement devices were delivered to Belgian distributors and customers at the beginning of December. Some patients have contacted the FAGG with questions about that recall. One individual indicated that he or she had switched to another plane. The FAGG has no data on the number of patients who have contacted their GP or who have switched to another device. The toxicological analysis of the tests carried out and the silicone layer is quite always ongoing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u86	Minister, you do not give very much information, but I understand that you do not have much more information. The additional information that there would be additional problems does worry me anyway. Some things we don't know yet, but the investigation is still ongoing. So I will certainly come back to this, but I would continue to draw attention to this, including with the European colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u87	This question was initially addressed to Minister Sophie Wilmès, who transferred it to Minister Vandenbroucke.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u88	Minister, this question dates back a long time ago. A number of Member States commented on the HERA initiative. As a result, this could not go on completely. I'd like to get the government's reaction to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u89	Ms Depoorter, a political agreement was reached on 20 December 2021 on the proposal for a Council regulation on a crisis framework. There was a great deal of support from the Member States at the preparatory Coreper meeting at ambassador level on 17 December, but no agreement was reached as some Member States in the Commission needed more time to discuss the compromise proposals internally. An agreement was reached on 20 December. What were the causes of these discussions? The principle of control by the Member States was found to be too light. The Health Crisis Board only has advisory powers, but has no formal decision-making power. What were our views? In view of the seriousness of the crisis, it is mainly important for Belgium to be able to start the activities of the HERA quickly. In this respect, it was only possible to make progress by setting up the HERA as a department within the Commission. This was done by a Commission Decision of 16 September 2021. Legally, this implies that the Commission takes the decision, not the European Council or the European Parliament. There is a good understanding between the Belgian representatives and the representatives of the Commission. The Commission has also made it clear that it wants to listen to the Member States. In addition, a formal agreement by the Member States on the use of the funds is needed through the approval of the annual programming plans in the respective programming committees, which will finance actions by the HERA. The current structure of the HERA will also be evaluated after a few years with a view to a possible transformation into an agency. This is important for the Member States because they can have their formal vote within the structure of an agency. I do not think that the current design of the HERA should be seen as a sneaky way of lifting powers to the supranational level and thus amending the treaty. The HERA is a new initiative that does not take over the competences of the Member States, but, on the other hand, through the Commission's budget, will ensure that Europe is better prepared for a next crisis by faster availability of medical countermeasures, for example. You asked me how I respond to the objections and reservations previously expressed in Parliament regarding the granting of Hera. I think you are referring to the European Parliament's objection to becoming more involved in the Hera. In principle, we have no objection whatsoever to Parliament having a say in the Hera. The HERA must be able to work quickly and effectively, especially in times of crisis. You also asked me if I believe that the objections expressed in Parliament are similar to the motives of the EU Member States. In the end, a political agreement was reached with unanimity, so I think everyone, including Belgium, is satisfied with the outcome of the political negotiation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u90	Minister, a compromise has been reached that was unanimously adopted precisely because the HERA is advisory and has no decision-making power. We agree that Europe needs to work on preparing for crises, but there are a lot of resources in the Hera. Moreover, you yourself state that its structure will evolve into an agency. We would therefore like to warn against an additional agency which will exist alongside so many others and which will attract a great deal of resources. As far as subsidiarity is concerned, there is the HERA, but also the European Strategic Pharmaceutical Plan, which I have already questioned you about before. In this context, we are concerned that a transfer of certain powers will be carried out and that the federal government agrees with that. After all, the Vivaldi parties have approved the European Strategic Pharmaceutical Plan, while we give up certain methods of reimbursement. I can only welcome Parliament's involvement in the Hera. We have not always experienced this in the vote on the pandemic law. We must therefore remain vigilant in any case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u91	Minister, at least 500,000 Belgians suffer from atopic dermatitis, the most common inflammatory skin disease. It affects 3 per cent of the adult population, but increases to 20 per cent in children and adolescents. It is our responsibility that 50% of patients initially get a poor diagnosis or receive ineffective treatment. The result for them is serious sequelae such as itching, sleep deprivation, depression, loneliness, but also some stigmatization. The "Atopic Dermatitis" coalition, made up of specialist doctors and patients, wanted to draw our attention to this situation, after publishing a manifesto containing recommendations in order to better assist patients in the future. Minister, have you been aware of this manifesto and its recommendations? What do you think? What measures could be taken to raise the medical community's awareness of this disease, but also to improve the management of these patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u92	Minister, atopic dermatitis is an extremely common disease that affects many people, especially children. It is urgent that we take care of it. It is a chronic genetic disease of the skin that hinders the quality of life of patients with it, especially children. Treatments now exist and require the diagnosis to be made as soon as possible. Among these treatments, we can mention moisturizing creams and corticosteroids, but also immunosuppressive and immunomodulatory medicines. My question is about their accessibility. Moisturizing creams represent a high cost for intensive use. What about their repayment, minister? What is the point of view of INAMI? What do you think? What are the solutions to make these treatments more accessible?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u93	Minister, three colleagues from different parties attended a consultation with patients with atopic dermatitis. That explains the concerns and similar questions raised by the various colleagues. One aspect that I would like to add is the lack of awerenness, both in the public sector, because the condition is not sufficiently well known as in patients themselves, but also in care providers. In a sense, there is a lack of education, as the meeting showed. For the rest, Minister, I agree with the questions that colleagues have already asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u94	I have read the manifesto and its recommendations well. My policy attempts to provide every patient with access to evidence-based treatments as quickly and sustainably as possible. The same applies to patients with atopic dermatitis, a large but highly heterogeneous group in terms of severity and treatment. My staff are in constant contact with the relevant administrations, patient associations and professional associations. For this file, it's no different. To answer your question about the care and awareness of these patients, I will ask INAMI to propose an updated version of the conclusions of the working group which had already formulated in the previous legislature concrete proposals for the management of chronic dermatological diseases. For various reasons, they could not be implemented. On the basis of the recommendations and updates of INAMI, I will ask for an action plan to enable better care for patients. It seems to me very important that this be done within the broader chronic disease policy. I am not in favour of taking a series of specific measures for a specific pathology and forgetting other groups of patients. As regards the cost of non-reimbursable moisturizing creams and magistral preparations for patients with atopic dermatitis, the INAMI working group will be able to formulate a concrete proposal on the basis of which I will take a decision on how to proceed. Reimbursement of these products or a flat-rate or non-flat-rate share in the cost of non-refundable products would reduce the financial burden associated with this pathology and make the various treatments more accessible. My answer is comprehensive, but it does not mean a lack of interest on our part.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u95	Minister, I am fully satisfied with your answer, which demonstrates your attention to this issue. We are waiting for a solution in the shortest possible time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u96	Minister, your answer is reassuring and offers hope for better care and support for these patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u97	I agree with the colleagues. We have always supported a global approach to chronic diseases, because we think they are correct. In that sense, I am pleased that the plan is dusted, executed and prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u98	Minister, a new mandatory internship should be imposed on future graduates in psychology. However, the students concerned seem to have received no clear information on this subject. The Royal Decree adopted on April 6, 2019 provides for graduates in psychology and clinical orthopedagogy to complete a compulsory internship of 1,680 hours, i.e. 42 full-time weeks. It concerns all students who have already started their course during the academic year 2017-2018. According to this royal decree, the purpose of this internship is to give the clinician candidate all the skills, know-how and skills necessary for the autonomous exercise of a clinical orthopaedagogue practice by practising with an approved traineeship master. Minister, do you confirm the implementation of this internship? Have you met with student representatives in this context? Have they been given any details of the practical arrangements for this course? What will happen to the remuneration of the compulsory traineeship in the exercise of the practice? What will be the status of future trainees, clinical psychologist candidates? Will they still be considered students or not? Will they be able to practice outside of these internship hours? In order to be a certified trainee, the professional must meet several criteria: to have at least five years of experience, to apply for it and to take training in the supervision and evaluation of psychologist candidates. Will there be enough traineeships with these skills to supervise this compulsory supplementary training?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u99	Mr Rigot, we have already received a number of communications from students and universities concerning the internship and we have also conducted consultations with them. I understand their concern very well. My administration is following carefully the applications for certification of traineeships and traineeships. Unfortunately, we have found that, at this stage, supply is not sufficient to meet demand. We are obliged to postpone the requirement for a professional internship for a year. A proposal to amend sections 68.1 and 68.2 of the Coordinated Act on the Exercise of Health Professions is being prepared within the administration and is continuing to be published as soon as possible. What does this mean in practice for students? Students who complete their studies during the academic year 2021-2022 are exempt from the professional placement and may obtain their approval immediately. The professional internship will be compulsory for those who successfully complete their master's studies in clinical psychology or clinical orthopedagogy during the academic year 2022-2023 and subsequent years. Students who began their studies in the 2016-17 academic year remain exempt from internship, regardless of the year of graduation. That is what this means in practice. A communication has just been published by the Public Health FPS. This publication clearly explains the content of the proposed amendment to the Act. This additional year will allow more traineeship candidates to apply. Mr Rigot, you also asked questions about the status and remuneration of trainees. The work placement takes place after university studies have been completed. It is therefore not part of the university curriculum and should not be confused with the internship during the years of master's training. As a result, clinical psychologists and clinician orthopedagogue candidates are no longer students, but they cannot exercise clinical psychology or orthopedagogy independently. Professional training is a form of supervised professional practice that provides the skills necessary to practice the profession of clinical psychologist or clinical orthopaedagogue in an autonomous manner. The 5+1 training course for psychologists and clinician therapists follows the European standard. With regard to the remuneration of trainees, the royal decrees of 26 April 2019, which regulate the terms of internship of clinician psychologists and clinical orthopedagogues, indicate that candidates and their traineeship master conclude an agreement specifying at least the obligations of each, as well as the agreements relating to the remuneration of candidates. The form of such remuneration is not specified in these royal decrees. In order to meet the demand for paid internships, my firm is examining the possibility of starting a pilot project with the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u100	Minister, thank you for your answer, which is clear and detailed. I am confident that it will meet the expectations of the future trainees concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u101	Minister, you are aware that the health crisis has triggered the demand for care from home nurses. Caregivers can now carry out previously prohibited acts and can therefore come to support those nurses who need them, in order to enable them to focus on essential care. Unfortunately, however, under the legislation, only a group of four nurses can hire a caregiver. Some home-based nurses are therefore unable to increase their means of action, at the risk of no longer being able to help some home-care patients. Minister, could you explain to us the reasons for the criteria in the legislation for hiring nursing assistants at home? Could this legislation be reviewed and assessed in light of the growing need for home care, not only in the current economic context, but also in a structural shift in home health care needs? If not, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u102	Mr Rigot, the legal framework for the exercise of the caregiving function, within the framework of the care of delegated nurses, is laid down in the Royal Decree of 12 January 2006 laying down the nursing activities which may be carried out by caregivers and the conditions under which such caregivers may carry out these acts. Article 3(1) of the Decree establishes in particular the need for the carer to work within a structured team in order to ensure the continuity and quality of care, consultation and control of delegated activities. This regulation evolved in 2019 in order to expand the list of acts that can be delegated to a carer. In the context of home care and the certification of health care benefits in practice, the framework for the integration of caregivers is defined in Article 8, § 12, of the Health Care Nomenclature. These criteria were incorporated into the nomenclature in 2014 on a proposal from the Commission of Practice Agreements for Nurses and Insurers. This proposal followed a pilot project and the results of the subsequent study in 2012, which showed the presence in the various projects of approximately one nursing assistant for seven full-time nursing practitioners. The Convention Commission wished to set the threshold for the integration of four full-time practitioners in the context of group work in order to be able to find the criteria of structured teams required by the legislation. Based on your inquiry and the signals sent by the home nursing sector, an assessment of these regulations seems reasonable. In this context, it is possible that the nomenclature of nursing care may be evaluated to be adapted to the realities of nursing, given that each adaptation of the nomenclature is the subject of discussions between practitioners and insurers. Any proposal by the sector in this area will be analysed and discussed among the various actors in their Convention Committee. I will look very carefully at the Commission's proposals for conventions on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u103	Minister, I am satisfied with your answer. I hope that we will be able to move forward quickly in this context and in the interest of the patient, but also of the nurses at home who are in the field and who need support.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u104	Question No 55023307C by Mrs Nawal Farih is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u105	Minister, on 10 December the Council of Ministers discussed adjustments to the management of the global medical dossier. Previously, comments on data sharing and privacy related to the maintenance of medical data were made by the Council of State. Often, drafts had to be adapted to comply with European directives. What changes or changes did you discuss at that Council of Ministers? Were the comments on privacy and data sharing taken into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u106	From 1 January 2021, a recognised GP will only receive a fee for managing the global medical file (GMD) if he uses an electronic medical file (EMD) for his patients. That EMD should be managed with a software package registered by the eHealth platform. Patients with a GMD benefit from some benefits such as reduced braking fees, access to the healthcare path diabetes and various benefits granted by health insurance funds. In the context of the switch to the EMD, it was provided that if the GP did not opt for the electronic management of his files, patients would nevertheless retain their benefits until 31 December 2021. However, the figures of the sickness funds showed that there were 1,200 doctors who refused or forgot to join the electronic system. Around 150,000 patients risked losing their rights linked to the GMD as of 1 January 2022. Therefore, on 10 December, the Council of Ministers decided to extend the planned transitional measures for the protection of patients by one year until 31 December 2022. That measure concerns only the benefit of the patient. The doctors concerned are no longer entitled to reimbursement for the management of these GMDs. The agreement on medical funds 2022-2023, concluded on 21 December 2021, provides that, based on the examination of the profile of the 1,200 doctors who did not join the electronic system, the insurance institutions will launch an information campaign to convince those doctors to make the switch. They will also launch a campaign to encourage each rightholder to open a GMD. I come to your second question. The data protection authority (GBA) made some recommendations in its opinion issued on 24 August 2021. It is a question of defining the concepts of "automated medical record" and "GMD" so that the authorities and citizens understand what these concepts contain, what they contain and how they overlap, who builds them, preserves them, has access to them, can supplement, adapt or use them and for what purposes. The consent must be informed and explicit and can be proven in writing. The GBA sees this as a form with specific entries. The form must be completed by the patient and must contain an ad hoc cover containing the information provided to the patient. The form must be signed electronically by the patient and kept in his file. I would also like to make the most important comments on this opinion. For example, it is important to note that there are no legal problems. However, from the patient's point of view, there is a need to clarify a number of concepts and to consider how to better inform the patient. The GBA's comment is justified in this respect and this needs work. However, reflection on this needs to be more generic and global for the entire eHealth landscape. This should not lead to any further administrative burden on the first line. It'll take some time. Therefore, it was chosen to publish the present decisions concerning the GMD, which are already working back until early 2021, and then to develop a generic solution, following the comments of the GBA. The RIZIV is working on a report that will be discussed with the actors in the field and with the eHealth Platform.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u107	Mr Minister, the electronic division and storage of data is very important, especially if we are to improve the flow of communication or files between the first and second lines, between general practitioners, home pharmacists and care providers in the context of multidisciplinary cooperation. I'll follow this anyhow. You indicate that you want a broad consultation and seek a consensus. I have another question. Do you have a time frame for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u108	I'm afraid to say, I don't have it in my preparation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u109	That'll be a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u110	I don't need to remind you how important it is to provide enough flu vaccines. Last year there was a shortage of vaccines. This year more flu vaccines have been ordered and more sold. In December 2021, you made a number of arrangements regarding the flu vaccination for the coming year. I would have liked to know from you how many vaccines you are ordering for the coming year and on what dates you have based yourself on.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u111	The Council of Ministers approved the Belgian State's guarantee of purchase of 450,000 additional flu vaccines through me. The purchase warranty applies if the vaccines could not be delivered or sold to patients or to persons authorised to do so for the purpose of vaccination of workers. This is the flu season 2021-2022. For the 2022-2023 vaccination season, the reservations for our country have to be made by the companies. For the 2021-2022 flu season, 3.78 million flu vaccines were provided. For this flu season, the first flu shots were delivered at week 36, the last in week 46.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u112	I had read in the minutes of the Council of Ministers that it would be about next flu season. I guess I misread that. You say they still have to be ordered for next year. It is now January, at least the time to study the issue and click on orders, if we want to have enough vaccines at our disposal next year. I'll follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u113	Mr Minister, in the Council of Ministers of 10 December 2021, the supervisory fee for oncologists was entered into. It's about an adjustment of the brake money. What adjustments, changes, provisions regarding that brake fee were made here? What were approved and when will this measure be introduced? What is its budgetary impact?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u114	The commitment to re-evaluate fees for the supervision of right holders in a non-surgical day hospitalization function has been taken in the womb of the National Committee on Medical and Medical Funds. In a first phase of the proposal, included in the National Medical Hospital Fund Agreement for 2020, it was stipulated that supervisory fees would be revalued for haematologists and paediatric oncologists and haematologists up to EUR 60.51, which is the rate for 2021. That is an increase of about 37 euros. The full cost of that first phase was budgeted at EUR 3.8 million on an annual basis. This revaluation does not affect the personal share to be paid by patients. A brake charge of EUR 4,96 will therefore continue to apply to rightholders without a preferential regime. There is no brake fee for preferential beneficiaries. A second stage, in accordance with the national agreement 2021, provides for the same revaluation, on the one hand, for doctors-specialists in medical oncology and doctors-special practitioners in oncology and, on the other hand, for rheumatologists for the administration of mainly rituximab. The full cost of that second phase was budgeted at 3.31 million euros on an annual basis. Here too, there is no impact on existing regulation for the brake fee. The Royal Decrees amending the Nomenclature and the purely technical adjustment relating to the personal share were transmitted to the Council of State for an opinion after approval by the Council of Ministers. I expect the publication of these decisions in the first trimester of 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u115	In fact, this is about EUR 7 million in additional costs for nomenclature. Minister, there was something in your reply that surprised me. In previous years it was made very clear that technical services in doctors are indeed better compensated than intellectual services, especially among doctors-specialists, and that there should be agreements between nomenclatures, i.e. between the different disciplines. I note that the government deviates from that. Do you have a global view on the re-evaluation of the nomenclature? How much will all that cost?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u116	The last point I did not quite understand. First of all, you are making a critical thought. This is, of course, an agreement that is reached within the Committee on Medical and Medical Funds as a result of a negotiation, which creates a balance, starting with the partners around the table. There are different wishes and aspirations for this, and finally a compromise comes out of the bus. You and I may have reservations about this, but I think it is important that an agreement is reached. For this reason, I have also supported and welcomed the agreements reached.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u117	I am indeed making that suggestion, and I would have liked to have had the government's vision of it. Indeed, agreements must be reached between different partners and it is important to feel comfortable with them and to find a compromise, but does this decision mean that the government will give up the re-examination of the nomenclature? Or does the government just have a very clear vision and send a clear signal about what her vision is and where she wants to go?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u118	We have approved the agreements and will therefore not criticise them. The re-evaluation of the nomenclature is a very wide-ranging operation which we, as a government and you as a Parliament, I assume, will take note of and look at critically. This exercise takes place in the RIZIV, of course with extensive consultation with all interested parties. Indeed, the review must be seen as an exercise in which the result of many chords over many years is considered critically and weighed. I think that's something other than one Medicomut chord. We have accepted this Medicomut agreement, because we were in favour of it overall. It broadly met a number of objectives which the government could support. The re-evaluation of the nomenclature is, of course, a reform operation and the direction it takes must be considered critically and carefully by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u119	Minister, whether they are already mothers or nulliparous, some women want to resort to a definitive method of contraception, such as the ligature of the tubes, and thus be able to abandon conventional contraception. Some women speak of a path of difficulties and denounce attempts to deter certain practitioners, constantly opposing the irreversibility of the operation and imposing an important period of reflection on them. It should be noted that in Belgium, unlike other countries such as France, there is no legal framework for definitive contraception, whether female or male; this leaves the door open to certain medical abuses, which are often infantilizing: excessive reflection periods, the imposition of pre-operative psychological counselling or the validation/approval of the spouse, although this is obviously an individual approach. The reluctance of doctors to treat women under the age of 35 is even greater, as they fear that this act will be regretted in the short to medium term. Minister, could you tell us the number of women who used definitive contraception in 2020 in Belgium? What is the evolution of these figures over the last 15 years? What are the statistics on vasectomy for men? To your knowledge, have any complaints been filed in this context with certain jurisdictions? Finally, should we not have a legal framework – like the situation in other European countries – in order to avoid inappropriate medical practices and ensure equal access to this definitive contraception for all women who wish to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u120	Mr Prévot, the number of women who used definitive contraception in 2020 is 2,486. The number of men practicing a vasectomy in 2020 is about 1,617. This figure is not entirely correct because the nomenclature code for the latter operation is that reserved for unilateral intervention. However, since the deferent channels are bilateral, it is necessary to divide the number of cases obtained for the service by two in order to know the number of men operated. However, this figure does not take into account men who have received more than one unilateral intervention for an indication other than that of contraception. This figure of 1,617 is therefore an approximation. Over the past 15 years, the number of cases has tended to decrease among women and to increase among men. I have a very detailed picture – which I can transfer to you – about the expenses and cases recorded for the period 2006-2020, both for female definitive contraception and for vasectomy. No complaints were reported to the INAMI services. As to whether it is necessary to establish a legal framework, each intervention decision is based on the therapeutic relationship between the doctor and the patient. The various contraceptive options are discussed to enable the patient to make an informed choice. If INAMI received information indicating a problem within this therapeutic relationship, we would analyze it to examine what needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u121	Minister, thank you for your very clear answer. I am always careful when imposing excessive time limits for reflection – whether in this or in other cases – because above all, we have cases here that deal with the individual freedom of women or men to resort to this definitive contraception. I hear there was no formal complaint at this hour, but I wanted to have a point on the situation. You have done so and I am pleased to read the supplementary documents that you will send me. In the future, we will have to avoid situations, even if there is no problem officially identified at this time, that could be considered infantilizing or other drifts. My will, in this and in other cases, is to be able to guarantee to each and everyone the full freedom of choice that he or she could lay for his or her body.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u122	Mr Minister, there would be critical shortages of immunoglobulins for ambulatory administration or administration at home. Therefore, the Task Force on the unavailability of medicinal products met to take action. He formulated a number of recommendations, including a more targeted prescribing behaviour, providing an alternative to a condition and a possible shift from subcutaneous to intravenous administration. Finally, the Task Force will also ask all concerned care actors to combat hamster behaviour. Belgium has introduced a national procurement procedure for the fractionation of domestic plasma and the establishment of a national strategic stock. Since then, Belgian hospitals have been obliged to meet 50% of their intravenous immunoglobulin needs through this national tender. For the remaining 50 % of the intravenous immunoglobulins and for 100 % of the subcutaneous immunoglobulins, hospitals supply themselves individually through calls for tenders from companies on the Belgian market. The question is whether we cannot or should not increase the 50% self-sufficiency system in order to achieve a more stable situation in terms of the availability of immunoglobulins. In your answer to my previous question, you said that you would instruct your services to analyse all relevant policy options in the future, taking into account the benefits and risks. I would like to know how far that stands and how you stand with the proposal to increase the percentage of self-sufficiency in order to achieve a more stable supply situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u123	Mr de Caluwe, this is indeed an important issue. The national tender means that a company makes available products with plasma supplied by our Belgian blood establishments for four years. The next national tender will be launched in 2025. However, my services are already evaluating the possibilities of extending the tender. Increasing the percentage of self-sufficiency would be a good way to achieve a more stable supply situation for immunoglobulins. Blood establishments are currently asked to increase the plasma collection by 5 % per year. In recent years, our Belgian blood establishments have managed to grow the plasma collection by more than 5% per year. However, this is not enough to achieve a higher percentage of self-sufficiency for immunoglobulins, as the demand for immunoglobulins also increases. The problem of limited availability of immunoglobulins rice has been for a long time. The covid crisis has exacerbated the international scarcity of these drugs by the reduced plasma collection and thus less available raw materials combined with a strongly increased demand for immunoglobulins. This situation has led to an increasing competitive market in which the companies involved make a strong commitment to profitability optimisation in the distribution of their products, both between the European Member States and at a global level. Since June 2021, the relevant public administrations, namely the FPS Economy, the FPS Public Health, the RIZIV, the FAGG and my policy cell, have been consulting frequently and regularly on the complex dossier. The group is working intensively, both on short- and medium-term and long-term slopes, to ensure and improve the availability of immunoglobulins for Belgian patients. On 7 December 2021, a task force was organised with all relevant actors, such as doctors, hospital pharmacists, relevant public administrations, professional associations and patient associations. On the basis of the Task Force, a communication with recommendations was published on the website of the FAGG, to which you referred in your question. The FAGG plans further such task-force meetings in the short term in order to continue to monitor the situation very closely and to be able to adapt quickly on the basis of the input provided where necessary. A solution to acute shortages is the introduction of foreign packaging of subcutaneous immunoglobulins for patients with primary immune deficiencies. These packages will be available during January and will be refunded 100 % for these patients. Furthermore, an additional amount of intravenous immunoglobulins based on Belgian plasma has been made available since October 2021 for 12 months. The authorities concerned are actively investing in building and maintaining a constructive dialogue with relevant companies in the Belgian market in order to improve the availability of immunoglobulins. On my initiative, a group review procedure for IVIg and SCIg was set up by the Committee on Medicinal Products Meeting in December 2021, i.e. for the two types of immunoglobulins. The purpose of this procedure is to develop a structural solution that can combine the increasing international price pressure with budgetary stability and thus ensure the necessary volumes of intravenous and subcutaneous immunoglobulins for Belgian patients, together with adjustments to the regulation, as proposed in the latest report of the KCE, No. 336A. Due to the confidentiality of this procedure, no further details can currently be disclosed. As I explained in the first part of my reply, an evaluation of the current national plasma tender is already under way until 2025. This requires, of course, a thorough evaluation with all the actors involved. A reform of the plasma tender will also require adjustments to the law of 5 July 1994 on blood, which requires Parliament to intervene. Mr de Caluwe, I hope that this was a sufficiently detailed answer to your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic658x.u124	Minister, I am glad that a solution will be found for these patients in the near future. Yeah, it's important. I also understand from your answer that structural and stable long-term solutions are being pursued. I look forward to the sequel.
