ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, there are many questions on the agenda, so for the sake of efficiency you can certainly refer to the questions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u2	Madam President, I will set an example straight away. Normally I have ten minutes for an interplay, but I'll keep it short. Minister, my interplay was not discussed before the Easter holiday, when there was already a debate on it. It was submitted in good time, but it was not added because, according to your cabinet, there was still no answer to certain sub-questions. I really appreciate that you wanted to go further and find the answers to that. I would ask the services to include my full interpretation in the report. I'll ask you my questions. Minister, the detectives have not dealt with 53 fraud cases in the last six months. Are you aware of the triage system? What initiatives are you taking to ensure, in the short term, that the federal judicial police have sufficient personnel to carry out all these investigations? What initiatives will you take in the short term to finally tackle the huge backlog in criminal matters in the court of appeal?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u3	Mrs Bury, we have already had an extensive debate on this in the Committee on Justice on 30 March, to which I would like to refer. Many questions were raised at that time and I raised five points. I do not think the President would appreciate it if I could repeat it all now. So I am certainly referring to that answer, but I can add a few more. When looking at the capacity of the judicial pillar or FGP, we started with 4,197 people in October 2020. On March 31, 2022 we already had 4,392 people, which means that about 200 were added. Is that enough? Probably not. You have a point when you say there's a need for more specialized investigators. We will have a debate on this in the Joint Committee on Internal Affairs and Justice. Some say it's constantly deteriorating, but that's not true. The numbers don't lie. Secondly, we are planning five additional counsellors before the Court of Appeal, on top of the legal framework, three additional clerks, nine administrative experts and seven assistants. All in all, there are 24 additional people at the court of appeal in Brussels. We are certainly making an effort to provide more staff. We can ask ourselves whether that is the only thing that will solve the problem. In addition, we have also made efforts in the process of the attacks, which will start this autumn. We await the results of the audit of the Supreme Court of Appeal in Brussels. We've received the report by now. The court of appeal has asked for a month to respond. Once the responses have been processed, the report will be made public and we will be able to debate it. I agree with you, of course, that the delay there is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u4	(...) You are certainly making efforts. I hope that the joint committee, which Mr Depoorter has also argued for, will also offer some relief. Will that be enough, given the delay we also see in the court of appeal? That's what I'm afraid of. Furthermore, we await the audit of the Supreme Court of Justice. For the rest, I refer to the motion I tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u5	The President: At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Katleen Bury and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Katleen Bury and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice with responsibility for the North Sea, - considering that the human resources problems of the federal judicial police, prosecutors and magistrates have been a particularly serious problem for many years; - whereas, in particular, as regards the Brussels court, Attorney General Delmulle raised the alarm in September 2021 and stated that, in view of the pressing staff shortage, the prosecutors were forced to make choices in the prosecution policy; - having regard to the fact that this is not in itself a particular case, were it not that in the present case there is 50% of the declared economic and financial crimes which cannot be investigated anymore, and there is a fear that this percentage will only increase; - that impunity on such a large scale is not only unheard of within a rule of law, but also encourages all kinds of crimes; - whereas all the more so, any European investigation warrant or international request for legal aid in economic and financial files is no longer carried out automatically by the Brussels federal judicial police; asks the government take the necessary measures in the short term to ensure that the federal judicial police have sufficient personnel to carry out all necessary criminal investigations, both with regard to financial, economic, fiscal and social fraud and to ensure that there are sufficient staff to carry out the European investigation orders or international legal aid applications in the economic and financial files on the other hand." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Katleen Bury and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Katleen Bury and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice, responsible for the North Sea, - Considering that the problem of the personnel of the Federal Judicial Police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary has been a particularly important problem for years; - Whereas, particularly with regard to the Brussels justice system, Attorney General Delmulle fired the alarm bell in September 2021 and stated that, in view of the lack of staff, prosecutors were forced to make choices in the prosecution policy; - Whereas this is not a particular case, except that, in this case, 50 % of the declared economic and financial offences can no longer be investigated, and it is feared that this percentage will only increase; - that such widespread impunity is not only unheard of in a rule of law, but also encourages all kinds of crimes; - especially since any European investigation decision or request for international legal assistance in economic and financial matters no longer automatically originates from the Federal Judicial Police in Brussels; asks the government to adopt in the short term the measures necessary to ensure that the Federal Judicial Police have sufficient staff to carry out all the necessary criminal investigations, both in the field of financial, economic, fiscal and social fraud, and, on the other hand, to ensure that there are sufficient staff to be able to carry out European investigative decisions or requests for international judicial assistance in economic and financial matters." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u6	Madam President, Minister, the Youth Succession Room (JOK) recently celebrated its first birthday. It seems that the results of that first year are satisfactory. Such a JOK ensures that young adults between 18 and 25 years old who do not have a comprehensive criminal record are given the opportunity to work on their problems under the guidance of the court. In this way one can play on the ball shorter than in a classic procedure. In the longer term, I think that would be more useful if we were to avoid recidivism. If the young adults successfully go through that route, they will be suspended afterwards. In the first year 62 files were launched, of which 10 were successfully completed and 26 are still in progress. Are you planning to extend the concept of the youth succession chamber to other arrondissements? Have any steps been taken to that end?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u7	Madam President, Mrs De Wit, the Youth Follow-up Room is a pilot project that was established in Antwerp through good cooperation between the public prosecutor, the courthouse and the aid. The youth follow-up room uses the same philosophy as that of the pre-existing drug follow-up and drug treatment rooms, i.e. individuals with a particular problem follow therapy or guidance. The court will succeed and, after this period, will be able to take into account the defendant's behavior, whether favourable or not. In this way, cooperation with other services will make Justice more effective and it will be much more than just a 'condemnation factory'.Excuse me for the word. As I said, the initiatives have the same methodology. This method can already be applied, but has not yet been incorporated into the law. I have prepared a draft text to legally anchor recovery pathways. We want to create a legal framework to apply this method to several problems, whether they be young people in a difficult living situation or the situation to which you refer, drug addiction, alcohol addiction or aggression. The draft text is now being discussed at the IMC Justice Houses, because they are our first partners and play a crucial role in the success of these concepts.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u8	Thank you for your answer, Minister. We will certainly follow it further because I think it is a very interesting slope to investigate further. So we can get the younger offenders as soon as possible at the place where we want them, namely on the straight path. We can only make profits there.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u9	Mr Minister, it appears from the press that the Belgian State has just been ordered to transfer an intern from a psychiatric annex to a social defence institution in Jamioulx prison. This conviction is accompanied by a penalty payment of EUR 500 per day with a ceiling of EUR 25 000. The decision could set a precedent and result in a snowball effect, with many people in the same situation. It appears that the man, 71 years old and detained for more than two years in prison for lack of room, was last January only fourteenth on the waiting list for his transfer. The deadlines therefore seem to be much more important than those mentioned recently in committee. If the masterplan continues for the creation of new places, these will only arrive within several years and may be immediately insufficient. In addition, several prisons have recently launched strikes, including the Bruges prison, where attacks were reported on staff, linked to overcrowding, as this situation is a corollary to the presence of many prisoners suffering from mental disorders and who do not have their place in prison. It is obvious that every place occupied in prison by an intern is a less place for an "ordinary" inmate. Can you tell us how many inmates are currently being held in our prisons? How long is the first ten people on the waiting list in prison for Marronniers and Paifve? You announced a multidisciplinary working group on the subject with your colleague, the Minister of Health. What about it? What's the result? In 2018, your predecessor indicated that the transfer of internees to the regular psychiatric circuit was continuing in collaboration with the Minister of Health. Is this procedure still under way?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u10	Mrs Matz, as far as your first question is concerned, 764 inmates are currently locked up in our prisons. Prisoners on the waiting list are placed in a specialized section of the prison. For Paifve, the first inmate has been on the waiting list since June 3, 2020 and the tenth since September 28, 2021. For Marronniers, the first intern has been on the waiting list since March 19, 2019 and the tenth since October 8, 2019. The waiting list for Marronniers is often extended due to convictions with forced placement, immediate arrests and placements due to urgent proceedings that are a priority. I would also like to mention that the Marronnier Centre is also faced with an overpopulation. To answer your second question, working with the Minister of Health to fluidize - what a fine word! - the care of internees in the regular sector continues. On 9 February, Public Health announced a new call for projects to improve and strengthen the provision of care for interns. The aim of this new appeal is to promote the release of internees from penal institutions and to optimize the organization, provision and fluidity of care for internees. In this context, bilateral meetings between the Federal State and the federated entities are under way. We decided to focus first on the new Criminal Code and then to see if we should also adapt the law on internment. Our first priority is to expand the medical-legal care circuit. We are developing a plan to do this with Public Health. This will certainly also benefit internees. Finally, I can tell you that in the meantime, we are investing in improving care in prisons. As you know, last year we decided to release resources to strengthen the Merksplas and Paifve teams with a total of 50 staff members, 37 of whom are already active. At the Council of Ministers on 1 April, we decided on a second round of recruitment of 116 additional staff for the care teams, an investment of €5 million, Mrs Matz. And this for all the other prisoners in all the other prisons! Thus, all detainees will be offered tailor-made care during their stay in prison pending the opening of three new legal psychiatry centres, i.e. one in Alost and two in Wallonia, Paifve and Wavre. In total, the number of people on the care teams in prisons will increase from 137 to 303 people. I think this is a significant effort.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u11	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answers. There are of course black spots that I do not want to impute you directly. Some people have been on a waiting list since 2019 to get a place in a centre. Waiting times are two or three years, which is very challenging. I'm not imputing them to you. I'm just seeing. Today, 764 people are waiting for a seat. In addition, there is the question of creating additional places in Paifve, in Wavre, but also in Flanders. I would like to highlight the very positive aspect of the general strengthening of prison staff. I have tabled another item which is also on our agenda. In my opinion, the answers that will be given will be of the same kind. In fact, prison directors have, among other things, sounded the alarm on this subject. You took care of it. We know it takes time. Recruitment is, in any case, a positive aspect. There is also, and above all, the alternative way to accelerate collaboration with the Minister of Health. There are indeed possibilities for the placement of persons. But, in this matter, we have the feeling that it drags a little bit of the feet, if I can say so. I don't think you're dragging your feet. However, at the level of Health, it seems to be a bit slow to relax. Yet these collaborations have been institutionalized for some time. It is simply the implementation of these collaborations that seems to take time. It is in this collaboration that part of the urgent response to internees is found. We will continue to follow this file, especially as we have worked with you to draft a text. It's a matter of great interest to us. I think that is also your case, but it is good that we can follow it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u12	Mr President, I have two questions on the same subject: quotas and margins. I would like to ask my first question in response to a written reply from you and a reference to it at the plenary session of 24 March 2022. My second question concerns the current pilot project. During the plenary session of 24 March 2022, you confirmed that the Limburg parquet has no quotas and tolerance margins. That makes Limburg an example and that is not the first time, if I may say so. The data provided by you show that there is a second parquet that maintains a strict line. What kind of parquet are we talking about? There are four parquets that use quotas. This means that, from a certain number of offences, no more minutes are written out. What kind of parquets are we talking about? For the sake of clarity, merely giving names, it does not seem to me to be detrimental to safety, because a driver can never know when the quota was reached and can therefore not adapt his driving behaviour to this. Moreover, I only ask for the name without mentioning the quota used. My second question concerns the pilot project. What is the exact timing you have in mind? You said that you wanted to put an end to quotas and margins by the summer. Is the abolition of the margins and quotas for all parquets supposed to take place at the same time? Or is it provided for a period when the parquets are supposed to fix that? Are all the parquets willing to join your initiative? Will you take action against those prosecutors who refuse to implement the reform? Can you share the interim results of the pilot project with the committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u13	Mr Raskin, you are asking a question on an interesting subject. I think that our government is the first to do something about quotas and the margins of tolerance. You have to admit that. How much the quotas and the margins of tolerance were, was the best kept secret of the Rue de la Loi. We will solve that problem, but that will not happen in one-two-three. In the meantime, I have learned from the Justice Department that problems that have been going on for decades cannot be solved in one-two-three. We have started pilot projects: two in Flanders and five in Wallonia. There are therefore more in Wallonia than in Flanders, Mr Raskin. In that we simply abolished the margins and quotas. The very detailed results, route by route, I will give you in writing. I've pressed the College of Attorney General to give you that information anonymized, and then you've got it. I did my best to do that for you, because I don't normally have that permission. I have indeed dropped the name Limburg in plenary, but that was not appreciated. Parquets look at each other and if there is a parquet that jumps out, the question can be asked why the other one doesn't. Two parquets don't have margins. If I give the name of the second parquet, you will immediately know which parquets do have margins. I have gone quite far in this; I cannot give you the middle name, for which I apologize. I've given you as much information as I can give you. I've gone a long way in that. The most important thing is that I want to get rid of the margins and quotas. These mechanisms were put in place at the time to control the workload of the police and the judiciary. When I joined, I took the necessary measures to digitise and align the work processes. Thanks to Minister Verlinden, we have, among other things, greatly strengthened the regional processing centres. We started there with 67 people and are now well above 100 people and there are more and more people. That is also necessary, because you have seen that the Flemish Government is even more committed to route checks. That is a good thing, but we also need to ensure that these route controls can be carried out, and that is why we are putting the regional processing centres in place. We are also working on the establishment of the national traffic park. I do not know if you were in favour of this, but your party abstained in the vote on it, Mr Raskin, which I regret. The national traffic park will certainly ensure uniformity. The parquet will issue rules that apply to the whole country. Parquets can therefore no longer make separate rules, as has been the case so far. The national court will have nearly 50 people. We're in the middle of recruiting. That parquet will deal exclusively with the so-called relatively minor offences, especially speed. The very serious violations of alcohol, drugs and victim support become the competence of the local public prosecutors, which are also reinforced by nearly a hundred people. Of those 100 people, 80 have already been recruited and in office. By summer we want the quotas and margins on our motorways completely abolished, both in Flanders and Wallonia. All operational route checks will then function without margins and quotas. In addition, we want to abolish the other margins step by step and in consultation with the regions, i.e. on the regional roads. An action plan is being drawn up in close consultation with the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and Mobility to gradually reduce tolerance margins and quotas. That plan shall take into account the available capacity of the federal and local police, the prosecutor's office, the courts and courts. The evolution of the action plan is followed up in a business intelligence tool that follows the evolution of the situation on a weekly basis. The data will then be discussed with the various actors. This will allow us to determine the next steps together on the basis of very current data. The car parks certainly show their willingness to participate in the action plan in terms of road safety, all the more so because the pilot projects have shown that the additional workload for the public prosecutors and police courts remains well contained. In these seven pilot projects, the additional work is relatively limited. It's about some vte's. National is the impact under control. That has just been the advantage of the pilot projects. I share the interim results in writing with you. Mr Raskin, it is good that you keep knocking on that nail. It is strange, however, that fellow parties of yours are completely ridiculing the things I am doing. One of your partymates tweeted the following: "To put little Fleming in the pockets even more, Quickie also abolished the tolerance limit." Do you know who that quote came from? Do you know who this partymate is? You can probably imagine. Well, that person's pretty loud-mouthed on Twitter, isn't he? I would also like to know whether your party is for or against quotas and margins. You are quite right to oppose that. Your partymates, however, are in favour. Honestly, there's a split in your party. You know very well who wrote that. That is populism first class, because either you are in favour of the margins and quotas or you are against. I'm on the line with you, Mr. Raskin. However, I fear that the rest of the party is on a different line.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u14	Minister, I am not so sure that the party is on a different line than I am. Nor do I have any message that in an answer to a question I may ask you here, you refer me to colleagues who have not asked a question on the subject here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u15	It's about members of your party. I'm allowed to do that, aren't I?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u16	Minister, it does not matter here. I was especially expecting an answer from you. Minister, I would also like to thank you very expressly for the answer to the written question that was raised a while ago. I am well aware that it was not very obvious to receive such data. I would therefore like to thank you for that. I would also like to thank you for the interim results you will give me. I assume that this can be relatively quick. So I appreciated the answer. Now, however, you say that you mentioned Limburg. Maybe that was a slip of the tongue, but the other thing wasn't. First, you promise me you'll get me all the numbers. When I reminded you of your promise, you replied that it should not be allowed, that the parquets do not like it and that you will not. I then asked you for the figures, which you gave me, for which I thank you once again. Now the parquets tell you that you've already said too much. If there was now one minister in the current government of whom I had a high regard and of whom I thought he would dare to oppose the banquets somewhat and dare to be open and transparent, that would be you. I'm sorry to hear that. I also regret that, when I ask for the exact timing, you will continue to reply that it will be by summer before the quotas and margins will all be abolished. I agree with you that enforcement is crucial to improving road safety here. The margins and quotas hinder road safety. They make people drive too fast. I have no hesitation in repeating that here. You are very committed to the file. We can see this in the coalition agreement, in the current pilot project, in your statements in the media and in your statement here that you will get rid of quotas and margins. At some point, however, there must be a result and not just an announcement. It is not clear to me when exactly that is when you say that they will be abolished by summer. I will continue to follow up on the matter, no matter who tweets what, Minister. It is my role here in Parliament to check whether you can and will live up to your high ambitions. I'm sure we'll talk again soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u17	Madam President, if we refer to the written text of the question tabled, will it be included in the report in its entirety? That's what I want to know.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u18	Yeah, that's right. In view of the number of questions raised, I have indicated that Members may refer to the text of their question, but it is not mandatory.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u19	Madam President, Minister, if I have the assurance that the text of my questions will be fully included in the report, then I refer to the text of my questions. By this I mean both my question about the detention homes and my interpretation about the execution of short sentences. Mr President, I should like to say that I have just been informed of the document No. 2645, a draft law on short sentences, the entry into force of which will be postponed until 1 September. I assume that tomorrow you will be asking for the urgent consideration of that bill in plenary. You may already know our position.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u20	Minister, on 1 April, I thought it was an April joke, you gave a press conference on the execution of short sentences, or rather on the non-implementation of short sentences. You have always promised, and you confirmed a few weeks ago, that all short sentences will be carried out from 1 June. Now, however, you are going to postpone this for the third time in a year and a half. The entry into force of that legislation shall be postponed by six months. However, this is not just about a continuance, you are going much further. You have now determined and explained the following. We will study the legal texts now, but it goes much further now. Punishments of 2 to 3 years will not be carried out until 1 September. Punishments from 6 months to 2 years will be carried out from September 2023. Punishments less than six months are no longer recorded, which you will no longer carry out. There will be no short sentences in the new Criminal Code. However, that has not yet been approved. There is therefore a preliminaries to legislation that is not yet in place. That's what's on this one. Minister, it is not the first time you have failed to meet your deadline and it is suddenly changing in a few weeks. I certainly hope that you have a good plan to get at least two to three years' sentence to put those convicted in prison from September on. After all, these are no longer short sentences. That was not yet done, however, and you went even further. Then I really thought it was an April joke. You will also extend the early release on covid until 2025. We have been critical of this, but I can understand why it is said during a health crisis that people are allowed to leave prison six months before the end of their sentence, for health reasons. Today, in April 2022, you say that you are going to allow that early release until 2025 because of covid. Then you have great glass ball. Then this crisis will last for a very long time. That doesn't frown one eyebrow but two and if I had more, they'd all frown. In doing so, you rely very heavily on the detention homes. That has always been a spearhead of yours, in order to get the sentence back on track. Also by keeping older prisons open you get extra capacity. I asked you about the state of play in February. Minister, is it still feasible to open the Kortrijk detention centre on 1 June? What other detention homes will open in 2022 and when? How many places will be realized according to your schedule in 2022 and 2023? In the meantime, do you have more than 3 agreements with local authorities to open a detention house? What kind of local government is that? How much additional capacity will be foreseen from 1 September 2022? From when do the first short-terms, although they are no longer short-terms, are expected at the prison gate? What is your estimate of the number of prisoners to be expected from the execution of prison sentences between 2 and 3 years? How much capacity will be provided from 1 September 2023, the second wave of short-term punishments that are finally expected at the prison gate? What is the estimate of the number of inmates there? Should we consider the non-execution of all penalties under six months as a preliminaries of the new Criminal Code? Does this mean that the choice of the majority is already fixed in that sense?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u21	Madam President, many questions have been asked by Mrs Dillen, Mrs De Wit and Mrs Rohonyi. I'm going to group my answers together to stay in a certain logic.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u22	I will try to group the answers to the questions in order to remain as logical as possible. Ms. Rohonyi, sentences of more than two to three years will be executed from September 2022 and sentences of less than two years will be executed no later than September 1, 2023. The bill was tabled yesterday online and will probably be dealt with next week. Mrs. Dillen, you're right. The problem of overpopulation has long existed. I believe that the execution of prison sentences of three years or less, in the long term, will have a positive impact on the overpopulation. This will lead to an upward spiral which restores the trust of the magistrates and the execution of the sentence and tackles the feeling of impunity among convicted persons. The search for detention homes, but above all for support for this at local level, is not an obvious exercise and requires a lot of time and patience. It has also been very hard worked on in recent years. We've analyzed dozens of sites with the Buildings Regie. We also go everywhere, sometimes several times, to create local support by actively engaging with the local authorities. Mrs Rohonyi, I went to the beautiful town of Schaerbeek and spoke with your mayor to convince her to have a detention house. I personally visited several places in East Flanders and Antwerp. It is unbelievable: Members of Parliament who ask me to open detention homes oppose this as mayor in their own congregation. That is the reality. If you can convince your mayor in Schaerbeek to open a detention facility like this, it's solved. But I am not allowed to do that, colleagues of Flemish Interest. Is there already one Flemish Interester who has said: can you open a detention house with us? On the contrary, you are organizing protest marches against detention homes. Mrs. De Wit, you were one of the pioneers of detention homes, but did you propose anything in your congregation? No.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u23	I will reply to that later, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u24	If you have anything to suggest to me, that's fantastic. I admit it's not easy to have a detention center like that. Look at the question you yourself, Madam President, raised about Meise. All the proposals we make are ricocheted off, everywhere and always. So if you ask me why implementation is so slow, Mrs De Wit, then I answer: because it is not easy to find detention homes. Do you think we're sleeping, that our people aren't making any efforts? We go one step at a time, we have to be realistic, we only have a few places. We've adjusted the pace to reality. Had I had 15, I could have opened it immediately, for example in Archangel, Mrs De Wit, and in Schaerbeek. Sometimes I get the impression that some people gloat that it is not progressing and that they can organise protest marches as soon as the locations are known. The Council of Ministers of 1 April has established eight locations in consultation with local authorities that are so brave to allow them, because such mayors and ships are there. Townmasters and aldermen or aldermen who say "at home, we can do it", there are, Mrs. Rohonyi. It exists, fortunately! On 1 April 2022, we set up eight places of detention. I come back to the answers that have been prepared for me. The short postponement and phase-out of the entry into force will allow the necessary momentum for the execution of short sentences while allowing time for detention centres to arrive and minimize the impact on the population in conventional prisons. The new Criminal Code provides, in book 1, for the abolition of prison sentences of less than six months, but this can only be discussed in connection with the reform of the Criminal Code and the two texts currently being finalised. That is why I will explain this in the context of the introduction of the new Criminal Code within a few months. For the penalties under six months, we have decided that it is better not to change their implementation at the moment, which is regulated in a ministerial circular. Mr Dillen, you know that we are now discussing the introduction of the new Criminal Code and it is being considered that sanctions of less than six months will no longer be possible. If this slope is preserved, we do not think it is wise to carry out these sentences, which have not been implemented since 1970, and then to say later that they are not being carried out. I can't, so we're not gonna do that. Mrs De Wit, we are simply going to do whatever the previous government has done, namely not to carry out sentences of less than six months. You were there in the last government, weren't you? We'll continue the line that was deployed in 1970. In the new Criminal Code, we will do what is necessary: to pronounce far fewer prison sentences. In our country, there's a prison sentence on everything, and that's a problem. So we'll keep the status quo, at least until the new Criminal Code is voted on. The Council of Ministers of 1 April adopted a list of eight premises. We can therefore proceed to purchase, renovation and commissioning. These are suitable locations in cities and municipalities where local government wants to contribute to tackling impunity. In the meantime, further discussions are being held with local authorities about a dozen other potential locations. I'm touched that you specifically asked a question about my hometown of Kortrijk. This will be open for entry into force on 1 September and 57 prisoners will be detained. Part of Berkendael's prison, which will be released in the autumn, will be a detention house for 60 people. There are six other locations. In order to ensure serenity in the negotiations, the exact location will only be released after consultation with the relevant municipal or city administration. Most local authorities support the idea of detention homes, but also here the nimby syndrome plays, so they are for the idea, but not in their backyard. We give the consultation every opportunity, but at some point it will have to be made and difficult decisions taken. With regard to the questions put by Mrs Dillen and Mrs De Wit, again suggesting the possibility of prison rent in the Netherlands, I checked that possibility from the first day I became a minister. However, there is no room in the Netherlands, nor is there any staff available. So that slope is not an alternative. Moreover, a prison in the Netherlands is not an alternative to a detention house. We have found 350 extra temporary places by keeping part of the Sint-Gillis prison - wings A and B - and the prison of Dendermonde open longer. At the moment, we are conducting simulations that will soon be able to provide a theoretical picture of potential additional numbers of inmates. However, these will be estimates. In practice, the influx of prisoners depends on a number of external factors such as the policy pursued. Suppose we discover a second Sky ECC, then the number of prisoners will rise significantly again, because we are pursuing a policy against impunity. Mrs Rohonyi, with regard to your fourth question, this strategy and the other measures that will be taken are the result of several consultations with the administration and my cabinet. As a result, the field is more than ever consulted. With regard to your fifth question, I have already pointed out that the partial opening of the prisons of Saint-Gilles and Termonde will be ensured until the end of 2024 for Saint-Gilles and, for Termonde, until the opening of the PLC of Alost, scheduled for 2027. As far as your sixth question is concerned, you will allow me not to see the so-called SPACE statistics from the Council of Europe as a classification in which progress should be made, but rather as a tool to see the impacts of the current initiatives as well as those which should be taken into account as priorities for action for the coming years, mainly with regard to a European median. On this point, two clear lines of work had been identified following my reading of the previous reports, namely the recruitment of staff and the fight against overcrowding, particularly in the area of pre-trial detention. You know I'm actively working on these issues. When I read this year's statistics, I was questioned by the difference in relation to the European median for suicide. I have therefore asked my administration to work on clear reporting tools and above all on procedures and actions to act as quickly as possible on this worrying problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but you will not be surprised if I tell you that I am really disappointed. Our group cannot accept the fact that you continue to postpone your legitimate promises and announcements, for which we have always supported you. The entry into force is now being postponed for the third time, now that 1 September is on the horizon. It remains to be seen whether it will be effective on 1 September. That permanent postponement is contrary to your principle of making justice stronger. I fully agree with that principle, but put it into practice. The delay runs counter to all good promises, which must also be implemented in practice. It now remains with punitive announcements in the media, without realising in practice. That is absolutely not acceptable. In your reply, you have just acknowledged that the reasons for the postponement are not new. The problem of the shortage of places in prisons has been known for many years. This problem has existed for more than 30, even 40 years, and has been raised repeatedly in our Committee on Justice. You say that everything will fall into the fold and that there will be enough places, unless, of course, a file like Sky ECC shows up again. Allow me to say that this is a mistake, because the problem of the capacity shortage dates from long before Sky ECC's file. The detectives of the judicial police deserve all praise for their achievements, chapeau! However, these achievements are not the cause of the shortage of places in our prisons. In addition, we do not agree that you will only start a phased implementation in September and then we will have to wait and see if the entry into force is actually before 1 September, but this can still be discussed in the discussion of the draft law. The phased implementation means that the sentences of two to three years will first be implemented, and next year the sentences will follow from six months to two years. In one breath, you add that punishments under six months will no longer be carried out. Your argument is that they have not been implemented since 1970. Minister, not I, but you promised that all penalties, including those under six months, would be implemented. At that time, you knew that these penalties have not been implemented in practice since 1970. I wonder why you are making such a statement in the media. You knew that back then. That too runs counter to the principle of making justice more criminal. You also say that there will be no more penalties under six months in the new penal code. You are putting the finishing touches to that at the moment. We have been hearing this for a long time, Minister. I would have liked to know what the timing is. Will we get designs before the summer recess? We can still work on this by 2023, but after that, most parties are in election mode. So when can we expect this in this committee, so that we can discuss this bill which has been announced for a long time? Mr Minister, I also note that you are continuing to run around with regard to detention homes. The detention house in Kortrijk will be opened effectively, at least from your answer, but you are only talking about potential locations. So that's not settled yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u26	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u27	You didn't use the word potential? We can't know those locations yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u28	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u29	Minister, we have always been positive about detention homes. The location for such a detention center must be the right one. The Flemish Interest had proposed a detention house in the industrial area of Machelen-Diegem. You missed a chance there. After all, there is now a centre for asylum seekers, not for Ukrainians for clarity. So we are not against the principle in itself, but the location must be realistic. Why did Minister Van Peteghem promise, when discussing the general expenditure budget by 1 June, two detention houses and by 1 July, four to five detention houses? I note that information was given in that committee which is not correct. Finally, Madam President, we are tabling a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u30	It's always interesting to see when you get excited, Minister. You just got angry. I'll tell you one thing: you don't have to get mad at me at all. Madam President, I am replicating the reply of someone who is now refusing to listen carefully. I'm really sorry about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u31	You don't look at me every time I speak, what is that now? I've been listening to you all along. What's your problem? Maybe I should look into your eyes all the time?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u32	No, you shouldn't look into my eyes, Minister. That's why I have someone else.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u33	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u34	I address you, Minister. Mr. Secretary, you don't have to get mad. There's really no need for that. After all, who promised that the punishments would be carried out? Who has honked and made noise that he would carry out the punishments? You promised! Not once, not twice, not three times, you promised it all the time! So you must not get angry and claim that the opposition is gloating that things are not working. I'm not gloating at all. I would have preferred you to keep your word. However, you do not do that and have here a whole alphabet of excuses to say why it is not possible. In fact, you yourself linked the organisation of the detention homes to the execution of the sentence. Indeed, this is not so easy. I'm not against detention homes at all, you know that well enough. I'm also looking at infrastructure on my territory. For example, we also need to take people from Ukraine and we need buildings, but they are not available. I have often told you that you must create a basis for the project, because then it will be easy. But your plan was apparently to execute all the punishments in Sturm und Drang, and now it doesn't work. Therefore, you should not get excited, as you have done this to yourself by proclaiming everywhere you went that you would carry out the punishments. The most punitive excuse from all your alphabet is COVID. You say you'll give everyone a penalty discount until 2025, which will free everyone six months before the end of the sentence, because of COVID. Surely that's the most punitive excuse you've ever used here. However, it is simple: you adapt the number of prisoners to the capacity, but the opposite must be done; you must create capacity. I also realize that this is not easy. There are detention houses, extra prisons. I am already pleased that you have listened to our option of keeping the older prisons open even longer. You can look abroad, even though the cells in Tilburg are no longer available. You are so keen to refer to what the Swedish coalition did in connection with the short sentences up to six months. Take a closer look at history, and you will see that we have never agreed to the decisions in this area. Look at what your predecessor, Koen Geens, and Theo Francken have done together. They have allowed about 1,500 people to serve their sentence abroad. 1,500! This would have largely addressed the overpopulation. But you won't. Maybe you'd like to. (Protests from Minister Van Quickenborne) Since the overpopulation remains what it is - and you can't stick it on the Sky operation - it's clear that you're not doing that exercise. You do not use the possibilities and now you are confronted with your own promises and your own honking about them. That's a boomerang. There's nothing I can do about it. You need to look in your mirror. You may have thought that voluntarism was enough, that it would be easy and that you would only get rid of it with communication, but that does not seem to be the case now, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u35	Minister, I thank you for your answers, even though they lead me to clarify some things. First of all, I must remember that it is quite normal for all sentences to be carried out, including the shortest, because impunity does not have to be in a society where everyone has rights but also duties. As such, my DeFI party has supported you in your short sentence enforcement bill. What is problematic here is rather the timing displayed and the modalities that were proposed for this execution which cannot be done at any price and under any conditions, i.e. not in prisons that you have recognized as unhealthy but for which you have decided at the same time, despite these conditions of detention, an extension in order to be able to honour your commitments, even if at every time it is seen that this execution is postponed. The prison in Saint-Gilles will be held until 2025 despite Haren's new prison. This has just been confirmed by your colleague, Secretary of State in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, Mr Michel. Not to mention that all the detention houses will still be under construction! It is not only the political will in the head of some mayors that poses a problem here, it is also the delay in the construction of detention centres. You cite Schaerbeek's example. It is true that the mayor is from the DéFI party in this commune but I am not aware of the talks you have undertaken with her. Nor am I aware of the date from which you started these talks. If they started a short time ago, obviously, we can't wait for a detention home in the next few months. Detention houses do not open in a few months or even in a year. It takes a lot more time. I also don't know the conditions you proposed for this detention home. One can be in favour of the principle of a house of detention and consider that the modalities raise questions and require negotiations. However, I will of course discuss this with the commune, but you understand that I am not a mayor of the beautiful town of Schaerbeek. I would also like to remind you that my party is a member of the College of the Municipality of Enghien and that is how we were able to alert you quickly to ensure that the transitional house of Enghien is reopened. For all these reasons, I am pleased that there is a postponement of the execution of the short sentences until 1 September 2022, as well as sentences of less than two years, and that there is a consultation with the prison directors, even if this contrasts with my return from the ground. You also say that, within this period, the detention centres will be operational. What guarantees do you offer us?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u36	Mrs. Rohonyi, please close.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u37	I'll finish. It also includes questions to which my colleagues have never received an answer. We still do not know the number of convicted persons involved in the execution of these short sentences. That's a real problem!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u38	Mrs Rohonyi has indeed spoken for a minute and a half. We need to keep an eye on the timing. Although we are sometimes flexible in this, this is not possible today because of the large number of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u39	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Marijke Dillen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Marijke Dillen and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice and the North Sea, - whereas the failure to comply with the prison sentences of less than three years has been a particularly serious problem in the justice system for many years, which has been indicted several times during this and previous legislatures; - whereas the current Minister of Justice has been announcing for almost two years that the non-implementation of the above-mentioned penalties will cease; - whereas, however, in practice it must be established that the Minister's policy of announcement is rarely followed by actual actions and, in this too, the entry into force of the necessary legal provisions, once again, and once again, risks being postponed; - whereas it seems symptomatic within the Justice Department that promises made after two years still cannot be carried out; - whereas in view of the knowledge and duration of the existing problems, there is no justification for justice to ensure that the sentenced persons under three years of imprisonment will all be effectively executed by 1 June 2022, as provided for in the rules; asks the government take all necessary or necessary measures in the short term so that, as from 1 June 2022, as provided for in the legal framework, all pronounced effective prison sentences under three years will be executed." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms Marijke Dillen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Marijke Dillen and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and the North Sea, - Whereas the failure to execute sentences of imprisonment of less than three years has for many years been a particularly serious problem in the judiciary, which has been denounced on several occasions during this and previous legislatures; - Considering that the current Minister of Justice has announced for almost two years that the non-execution of the above-mentioned sentences would be terminated; - Whereas, in practice, it must be noted that the Minister's announcement effect is not followed by any concrete effects and that, in this case too, the entry into force of the necessary legal provisions risks once again, and for the umpteenth time, being postponed; - Considering that it is apparently symptomatic within the justice system that promises are still not fulfilled after two years; - Whereas, in view of the knowledge and duration of the present problem, there is no justification for not ensuring that all prison sentences of less than three years are carried out from 1 June 2022 at the latest, as provided for in the regulations; asks the government to adopt in the short term all necessary or indispensable measures to ensure that from 1 June 2022, as provided for in the legal framework, all effective sentences of imprisonment of less than three years are carried out." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u40	Madam President, Minister, given the busy agenda and the short time available, I would like to refer again to my written preparation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to Mrs Dillen's first three questions and Mrs Bury's first question, the results were delivered to me last Friday. There are interesting things in the research, but consultation with the various partners is necessary to see what is practical and budgetary feasible. It is certainly information that can be included in the working group as part of the reform of penitentiary health care. A first consultation with the Minister's policy cell is scheduled for early May. Consequently, the questions about staff training and an overview of the financial picture are still premature. Mrs Bury, as far as your second question is concerned, of course, the problem of the reception of sex offenders and offenders who go to the end of punishment without guidance and treatment is also very important to me. That is why we want to introduce a new sentence in the new Criminal Code, which is the treatment imposed. Discussions are currently ongoing within the government. I would also stress the importance of the fact that everything falls or stands with the offer. Once the global concept has been worked out, the theory must also be able to be implemented. One must have a comprehensive forensic supply of care for those convicted, such as FPCs or other forensic care facilities. In addition to the well-known regular offer, a parallel forensic circuit needs to be developed. Justice cannot do this alone and we must work together with the competent health ministers. Mr Bury's third question requires a slightly longer answer. The risk assessment tool becomes part of the project on vulnerable persons that is further developed from the Justice Department. I'll give you the latest update. Since the start in 2021 we have been developing two types of dashboards. On the one hand, there are dashboards that should allow for a detailed analysis of criminal policies on sexual crimes and intra-family violence, and on the other hand we are developing a dashboard to identify the different risk factors. As for the first dashboard, we want to map the figures from the moment a police report is made by the local police, its flow to the public prosecutor's office and the internal process up to the number of final judgments in court. For this purpose, we collaborated with the Limburg parquet as a pilot site. A first provisional version will soon be presented to the expert group mandated by the various conferences for this project, for possible validation and for request for adaptation. Subsequently, a verification of the figures via pilot sites and the link and integration with the already developed data of the Public Prosecutor's Office should be carried out and the different partners who develop this tool should agree on the access rights and use of the data. The second dashboard should allow, inter alia, to determine the level of risk for a case and to assess the risk of repeated sexual and intra-family violence. A first version of the dashboard for partner violence is currently being made. Through the dashboard it is possible to get a look at the number of people who have been in multiple correctional files in recent years, whether or not related to partner violence. We want to define repeaters and high-risk groups within the issue of partner violence. We can make a first classification based on demographic data. The repeat monitor needs to be further developed and enriched with other data, such as sexual violence. In the future, we want to make it possible to go up to individual level and to build in certain alarm mechanisms if someone is a recidivist or if there is a good chance that he or she will repeat similar facts. In the short term, the NICC and the academic world will also be involved in the project to validate and improve the methodology. In fact, the Justice Department granted the NICC an increase in the amount for the creation of a repeat monitor and a repeat cell. Scientific research into recidivism is very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your long and interesting answer, in which you have provided useful information. I note that you have not yet been able to answer my questions. I am surprised that you were not informed of my questions until last Friday, but there must be a reason for that. You're planning a meeting at the beginning of May. I will ask a follow-up question in the coming weeks to get back to this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u43	I note that you are investigating whether the treatment imposed can become a new punishment. We'll follow up on this. You referred to your colleague, the Minister of Health, as regards the offer. I ask you to sit down at the table with him as soon as possible to see what kind of offer is possible in relation to the treatment of sexual offences. As far as risk assessment is concerned, you're talking about two dashboards. You mentioned Limburg as a pilot site, but I did not hear a date concerning its extension to the rest of Belgium. You mentioned a repeat of partner violence. Risk assessment in the event of recidivism is absolutely important. This is a broader issue than mere partner violence, but we must pay attention here. You say that if perpetrators appear in multiple correcting files, an assessment will be made. However, attention must be paid to this, because in the case of partner violence, it is often the case that everything happens behind the scenes for a very long time. If a victim comes out with this, then there is not much to repeat. So one must play faster on the ball and not wait for similar facts to occur and then draw up a risk analysis of the perpetrator.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u44	Madam President, Minister, drugs are a scourge or at least an assault to avoid. Everyone will agree. However, despite common sense, drugs have long been present behind bars in our prisons. According to your own services, one in three inmates would or would become drug addicted while in prison. Since the outbreak of the covid 19 pandemic in our lives, anti-drug controls have been suspended sine die in Kingdom prisons. If this could be understood for temporary reasons of the health well-being of detainees and staff, this temporary situation must cease as soon as possible. Similarly, a pilot project is under way at Ghent Prison to remove prisoners from drug addiction. This project provides for follow-up and individualised treatment according to each profile and extends over a long period of time. Apparently, this project is funded by the work of the inmates. It is gratifying that baton and repression are not the only systematic response of the prison administration. Given this, Minister, these are my questions. When will drug controls resume in prisons? If they have already taken over, how many have been carried out so far? How successful have they been? What is the exact cost of the pilot project at Ghent Prison? Given the specific method of financing this project, are the other prisons in the country capable of supporting such a project by their own means if it were to be extended to these institutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u45	Madam President, I shall reply first to Mrs Dillen's first question. External assistance will be responsible for implementation. The contract will be awarded one of the following days: Cellmade welfare project. The assignment was written by the penitentiary institution according to the guidelines of the global and integrated penitentiary drug policy, and is in line with my policy statement. It is a drug programme that is easily accessible, consisting of a group program in combination with individual guidance. It is accessible to any inmate who wishes to work on his or her drug problem, regardless of the detention status, gender, and the stage of behavior change that he or she is in. As a result, it is of a low-threshold nature. It is based on cognitive behavioral therapy, on developing skills to stop or reduce use, and on reducing the risk of relapse into problematic drug use and thereby relapse into crime. Worldwide criminological research shows the correlation between problematic drug use and crime. The prison population is characterised by an over-representation of problematic drug users. Such a low-threshold program can achieve a multitude of drug-using criminals with a diverse user pattern. Mrs Dillen, in reply to your second question, on a study day following 10 years of Belief, the results of Max Vandenbroucke and Ann Coucke's research were presented. This showed that the relapse rate of heavy drug users with the same profile is 30% lower for those following the Belief programme. I now come to Mrs Dillen's third question and Mrs Marghem's second question. This program is entirely funded by Cellmade as a well-being project 2022. The cost is 13,000 euros. The evaluation will take place in progress and at the end of this year. As regards Mrs Dillen's fourth question, the contract will be evaluated at the end of the contract, namely in January 2023. For Mrs Dillen et la troisième question de Mme Marghem's fifth question, I note that the programme in Ghent is following the example of a drug programme that was rolled out in Oudenaarde a few years ago. Due to the experience in Oudenaarde, other establishments want to follow this example: Ghent, Leuven-Help, Leuven-Central, Antwerp, Dendermonde, Beveren and Root. The EPI is responsible for coordinating the content of the programmes across establishments and for ensuring coherence within the penitentiary drug policy. This avoids the need for a prisoner to start again from scratch in the event of a possible transfer or re-incarceration and allows the continuity of treatment to be established. The introduction of this program, which may exist with funding from Cellmade, will be reviewed annually. Finally, to answer your first question about anti-drug controls, Mrs Marghem, during the Corona crisis but only in 2020, the number of anti-drug controls using drug detector dogs was lower. In the meantime, this number has returned to a normal level, i.e. 180 checks per year. For example, this number was 148 in 2014, 133 in 2016, 165 in 2018 and 165 in 2018 and 62 in 2020. With 183 controls, 2021 was the best year in a long time. So these are my answers, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed and detailed reply. You announced an evaluation for January 2023, which is important, because the problem is serious. A third of the addicted inmates started doing this within the prison walls, regardless of how they keep getting those drugs so easily. This problem needs attention and we will follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u47	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive response and I welcome and welcome the decline in the recidivism rate associated with the existence of these programs and the resumption of controls. I hope that this programme can be extended and systematized in all Kingdom prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u48	Mrs Dillen, a prison is not an isolated environment but a reflection of society. You know whether you don't know this, but now you know that data from the website minehealth.belgie.be shows that Belgium has the highest suicide rates in 15 EU countries, both in men and women. Compared to the average of 15 EU countries, suicide rates in Belgium are 1.6 times higher in men and 1.8 times higher in women. However, international comparison of deaths by suicide should be interpreted with caution, as differences in socio-cultural context and quality of life hamper comparability between countries. However, this warning should not serve to minimise these problematic figures. The same thought can be made for the prisons. Recent scientific research shows that the risk factors identified in the free society are also important in prison. In addition, there are factors linked to the capacity of the detention environment and the quality of life in our prisons. These are included in a global suicide prevention policy in prisons. Then I come to your second question. I agree with you that the offer is not sufficient. Mental health care is part of a global reform of penitentiary health care. On 23 February 2022, at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Public Health, a decision was taken to concreteise penitentiary health care on the basis of a vision text. There are five working groups, with two transition managers. Mental health care is monitored within the Health Care Working Group. In addition to Justice and Health, the Länder also participate in these working groups. Pending the transfer of health care to health, I take several initiatives to strengthen healthcare in prisons. For example, the care frameworks of the institutions in Paifve and Merksplas were extended. The same will be applied in all annexes. That is what I said in reply to Mrs Matz's question. Prevention of suicide within prisons is a shared responsibility of both the Communities and the federal services. In the initial training of our staff in prisons, the problem of suicide, how to recognize the signals and how to respond to them is discussed in detail. This does not only happen to psychologists, Mrs Dillen, but also to penitentiary staff. The future detention counsellors will continue to focus on the quality of life in prisons. For the development of suicide prevention policies in prisons, there is cooperation with experts' organisations from the free society. As a result, the concrete approach may differ between prisons in Flanders and Wallonia. In all French-speaking prisons, cooperation has been developed with the ASBL Un pass dans l'impasse, based on the observation that the mental health of prisoners is negatively affected by detention. Local roadmaps on suicide prevention already exist in Flemish prisons, which were drawn up together with the services of the Flemish Community. In addition, further investment is currently being made in the elaboration of harmonised policies on the various prisons. The development of this policy involves different disciplines within EPI and consultations with the departments of the various Communities. Every suicide is one too many. We need to focus on prevention. When a suicide occurs, the situation is analysed internally to see if lessons can be drawn from it for adjustment purposes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u49	Minister, you have provided clear and complete information, which is nevertheless very interesting. Indeed, Belgium has the highest suicide rate. That is not new, it has been a serious problem for decades. I was in the past on the Committee on Welfare, Health, Family and Poverty Reduction of the Flemish Parliament, where prevention was being worked on. That was a problem that came back every year. This week, the prevention of suicide has been discussed in detail in the media. It is very important to pay attention to prevention, not only in society but also in our prisons. At the same time, some of the causes need to be addressed. You yourself have cited a number of causes, such as the capacity within prison and the quality of life that needs to be worked on. We agree on that. I have another question. You mentioned the transfer of health care. Is there any timing for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u50	The IMC took place on 23 February, with the five working groups. We'll probably go step by step. We will do the transfer for the prison of Haren, Dendermonde, New Dendermonde and the detention and transition homes. In a later phase this will happen for the other prisons. That plan is ahead of us now. Hopefully we'll make it. Of course, we are heavily dependent on cooperation with Health and the Länder, and Justice cannot do this alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u51	Mrs. Rohonyi has been held back on another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u52	Madam President, dear colleague, on 19 April, 957 unaccompanied foreign minors were awaiting the appointment of a guardian. Approximately 200 of them are still housed in an observation and orientation centre in Fedasil. The Tutelle Service will appoint them a guardian only when they move on to a second-phase reception. Of the 957 unaccompanied minors, 520 are of Ukrainian origin. There are 31 employees in the Tutelles department, including drivers, administrative assistants, social workers and lawyers. The mission of the Tutelle Service is described in the programme law of 24 December 2002. It coordinates and supervises the physical organization of the work of guardians, in particular the approval and withdrawal of the authorization of guardians, the appointment of guardians, the training of guardians, the identification and medical examination in case of doubt as to the age of the minor, the coordination of access to the territory, residence, expulsion with the authorities responsible for reception and accommodation and with the authorities of the countries of origin of the children, in particular to find their families or other reception facilities. It shall also ensure that a lasting solution, in the best interests of the minor, is sought as soon as possible by the competent authorities. On 1 April last the Council of Ministers approved a provision of EUR 800 million for actions related to the war in Ukraine. The Tutelle Service needs a significant increase in staff and 60 additional tutors to deal with the consequences. I am going to submit my detailed budget request for the Tutelle Service this week to the financial inspector, with the aim of arriving at the Council of Ministers as soon as possible, on the one hand, for the establishment of measures to combat trafficking in human beings and, on the other hand, for the strengthening of the Tutelle Service and the recruitment of additional guardians. With regard to investments in guardianship, it is important that the Tutelle Service is better able to carry out the tasks described below through these investments and that, in this way, the waiting list can also be removed as soon as possible. In the meantime, an internal call was launched through the Special Federal Forces programme for the temporary strengthening of the Tutelle Service. The latter is already focusing, with associations that can offer guardians employed, on preparing the memorandums of understanding for this extension of cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for these answers. I am glad to know that the already announced reinforcement is under way. More generally, I also wanted to draw your attention to delays in the treatment of volunteer guardian candidates. I have indeed received feedback from candidates, who complain about the lack of follow-up by the services. From the moment the waiting lists increase, we understand that it is demotivating for those who have applied. On the other hand, it is difficult to understand what needs to be done. It seems to me very important to be able to speed up the processing of applications from guardians as a matter of priority, in order to improve the speed of care for unaccompanied foreign minors. I would have liked to hear from you about concrete solutions to these issues. Maybe it'll be for the next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u54	Colleagues, following a complaint from a client of the Prison Labour Board (RTP), who denounced the agreement for unfair competition, the employers' federations ended this 2011 agreement in February 2013. Nevertheless, the RTP continues to work in the spirit of the convention. The RTP has been restructured and modernised. It has developed business activities through six regional teams, each composed of two account managers, among others. RTP has also developed its business identity called Cellmade. It is therefore logical to talk more and more about Cellmade. That's a nice name, Cellmade! Detainees do not have an employment contract because they do not receive a salary but a gratuity. Cellmade does not pay social contributions, but Cellmade does not receive any subsidies either. Cellmade's basic rate is currently at least 6 euros per hour. For this tariff, Cellmade provides the private contractor with a surface area and a workforce. It is up to the private contractor to transport in the workshop raw materials, machinery, tooling and specific clothing. If Cellmade faces additional production costs, these costs are added to the 6 euros per hour. In production workshops, the minimum price is 8 to 9 euros per hour. On the other hand, it should be noted that Cellmade faces several trade disadvantages. I'll mention three of them. First, the image deficit. The image conveyed by the prison world is not always easy to assume by the entrepreneurs who use our services. Secondly, the accessibility of facilities. Entering and leaving prison is time-consuming. Safety and control measures that are brakes are required to use Cellmade. Thirdly, deadlines are not always met due to staff shortages or strikes. This concerns the general picture. As far as Haren is concerned, the first workshops will open at the end of this year. This also means that those in Forest and Berkendael will close. The first customers to arrive in Haren will therefore be those who are already collaborating with these workshops. With regard to the Saint-Gilles site, the impact of the decision to keep part of the infrastructure for the opening of these workshops is still under consideration. Several of Cellmade's current customers will also increase their collaboration by developing certain activities in Haren. So it is still too early to know what will be the evolution in Haren. Finally, I would like to stress the need to continue to offer work to inmates. Work in prisons is not new. It is present throughout the country and must remain at competitive prices because this work is a real tool for rehabilitating and combating recidivism. This had not been a problem before. Therefore, I do not see why it would be different in Haren. In addition, 1,700 inmates work in the workshops. The work is carried out on behalf of private entrepreneurs, in comparison with the 25,000 workers employed in adapted work enterprises. Prison work therefore accounts for less than 7 per cent. In conclusion, I can reassure you: we are always open to consultation with suitable work enterprises. Madam President, I apologize because I have exceeded my speaking time by 55 seconds.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u55	Minister, I thank you for this state of affairs. To be very clear, I obviously did not question the importance and usefulness of prison work. I know that we agree on this, although it should be possible to organise it by means of a contract of employment, higher remuneration and the social rights that accompany them. Anyway, this is another debate! In any case, it is important not to set up competition between two sectors that aim to offer work to people in difficulty. I hear you are making sure that the current situation is not going to be upset and that you remain open to consultation. Given the concerns expressed by the ETA sector, it would seem useful to take an initiative on them, with a view to addressing the concerns that remain quite acute.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u56	Madam President, Minister, as we all know, prison should be the ultimate remedy for punishing offenders. Recidivism is enormous in Belgium and the prison system is for many. You have said that you are in favour of the development of alternative sentences and, at the same time, you want to execute all the short sentences. A sanction must be enforced, it is clear, but what sanctions are we talking about? These sanctions, which inevitably lead to recidivism since the prison does not heal, on the contrary, or those prison sentences that could be transformed into constructive sentences for the convicted person and for society in general. The press reported the astronomical amounts that are allocated for each person detained and the peanuts – excuse me for the expression – allocated to alternative sentences. It is obvious that prisons must be refinanced, but should we not also put the means for alternative methods which scientists have long said could drastically reduce the rate of recidivism? The reform of the Criminal Code should therefore be aimed at initiating a change in the application of the criminal law. Minister, what is your analysis of the situation? What are your prospects for financing alternative sanctions? Is it not necessary for federal assistance to federated entities to improve these perspectives and to operate these methods? Is your reform of the Penal Code a decisive step in this direction? I would like to illustrate my point with an example. Yesterday I visited an animal shelter where people serving an alternative sentence are regularly employed. The people in charge of this shelter reminded me of the importance of continuing. Presumably, this is going very well for both those serving an alternative sentence and for the shelter for whom their work is meaningful in times that are difficult for all associations. So they reminded me of the importance of this system and its funding so that they could continue to send people to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the article to which you refer is linked to the 25th anniversary of the ASBL Arpège-Prelude, which provides training in the framework of grants administered by the Communities. During the sixth reform of the State, part of the amounts related to these subsidies were transferred to the budget of these Communities. This is the case with the subsidies paid to this ASBL. Some of these budgets have remained within the federal budget and are paid in particular for work, training and therapy projects, on the basis of the decisions taken by the Communities within the Interministerial Conference Houses of Justice. Since this sixth reform, it is therefore the Communities which are in charge of the monitoring and supervision of these alternative measures. Your question should therefore be directed towards them. However, on the merits, I must point out that I have always argued that prison should be the ultimate remedy and that other options should be taken before a sentence of imprisonment could be handed down. That is why I am ardently defending the initiatives that the M approach, the policy of immediate reaction – apparently, it is called tac to tac – or the fields of reparation, all examples of alternative penalties. As far as driving is concerned, I am also in favour of the use of alternative measures. Indeed, the figures show that these are much more effective. For example, recidivism fell by 41% after drivers convicted of a traffic violation had to follow a mandatory apprenticeship program at VIAS. But it is above all the reform of the Penal Code, which has already been mentioned today, that will really bring about a Copernician revolution to give a new meaning to the penalties. In the meantime, I would like to remind you that huge sums are being invested by this government in recruiting staff for prisons and their new function as prison attendants, but also in setting up detention centres that will also allow the initiative of small-scale detentions, of which all actors agree that this is an excellent initiative. It's not an alternative. But the effect is the same. That is why, believe me, the amounts mentioned are far from peanuts. I am also convinced that if the judge pronounces a prison sentence, it must be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answer. As I understand it, there is no more federal funding for alternative sentencing. Due to the reform of the State, all the means to organize these alternative penalties go to the houses of justice and thus to the Communities. It seemed to me that there were still federal budgets to fund alternative sentences.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u59	I can provide you with the details in writing. There's no problem. Some budgets remain within the federal budget to ensure work and training sentences, based on decisions taken by the Communities at the Interministerial Conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u60	And you have the amounts? It would be nice to send them to us!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u61	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u62	There is the prison component, on which you increase the budget to create within the prison, a form of detention path. This is welcomed, but no supplementary budget is foreseen for the federated entities to organise alternative penalties. If you could give me the required numbers, that would be good. Because I also hear your willingness to say that when it comes to driving, you see that an alternative sentence has more effect than a prison sentence. Of course, it is not a question of challenging the legitimacy of a sentence – that is not my point – but rather of thinking about a solution that is more efficient and less expensive than a place in prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u63	Madam President, Mrs Matz, please excuse me, but I have time for one question, because a Kern meets at noon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u64	We come to Mrs Matz's question No. 55026898C on the shortage of prison directors.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u65	I also have a question on health care, along with other colleagues. Do you have time, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u66	Mr. Minister can't stay.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u67	If all Members refer to the written text of their questions, I can give you the answers and listen to your replies. If you want to intervene by reading your questions, I'm afraid I won't have time because I have to be at the kern at noon. The Prime Minister always starts on time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u68	Minister, on January 12, I asked you about the death of a prisoner in Nivelles prison. You told me that the inmate had been seen by a doctor within 24 hours of his arrival, as required by law, that he had received medication but that no serious problems had been identified, and that his death was unexpected. The press of this April 13 relayed the following version: Mr. Z was reportedly examined on his arrival only through a counter because the door could not be opened; despite vomiting going worse - and accompanied by blood from the day before the death - and a significant weakening of the prisoner, he would not have been the subject of a formal consultation on the more than 48 hours he had spent in Nivelles prison. The Nivelles Prosecutor's Office is seized and judicial information is under way; it is not on the judicial aspect that I wish to question you today. On 10 December, on the basis of the information provided to it, the Prison Supervision Board sent a letter to the Director-General of Prisons in order to request the opening of an internal investigation. It would appear that this request has not received a response to date. Minister, here are my questions: - the medical examination on the arrival of an inmate, conducted through a door and not directly on that person, does he meet the requirements of s. 89 the 2005 Act? - According to the OIP, in Nivelles, from 3:30 pm no medical or nursing presence is ensured, even by telephone, and the generalists of the City would refuse to come there. This problem is not confined to Nivelles prison but is widespread. What training is available to officers to determine whether or not urgent medical intervention is necessary? Is the urgency of the emergency procedure not likely to cause a necessary intervention to be abandoned? What measures could be put in place to ensure better filling of the framework and thus better monitoring of health in prison? - what action has been or will be taken on the CPSC's request for internal investigation? - What can you respond to the CPSC's recommendations regarding the revision of protocols for the follow-up of deaths in custody?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u69	Minister, on 27 November last, a detainee from Nivelles prison was found dead in his cell. You know that, because you were already questioned about this, several weeks ago, by my colleague Hugon. Your answer to his question, however, seemed completely unsatisfactory, in that it gave the impression that everything was fine, and that there was no problem with the health care of inmates at Nivelles prison. This is not the case in a number of testimonies and a recent OIP statement denouncing violations of the right to health of detainees: 1.The medical setting would still not be filled, with many time slots where no doctor or nurse is available, by face-to-face or by telephone! 2.The general practitioners refuse to go to the prison by day or by night and it is up to the officers without any medical training to judge the need to appeal to 112. This difficulty in attracting external doctors is also widespread in Wallonia, especially at Leuze prison, which I had the opportunity to visit a few months ago. 3. When detainees have to be taken to the hospital, they are taken by officers and not by the police, who do not move systematically, which means that the prison remains with insufficient medical facilities! If you look at the prisons, it's no better. In Brussels, appointments to specialist doctors are regularly cancelled due to the lack of police personnel to transport detainees. Dental care was suspended between August and October due to a lack of safe facilities and dentists. As for mental health problems, they are still not adapted due to the lack of caregivers. Accordingly, Minister: •Are you aware of the problems identified with health care at Nivelles Prison? Are you considering a solution as soon as possible? •The Director General of Penitentiary Institutions was arrested by the CPSC to conduct an internal investigation and review the specific protocols to follow after a death in custody. Are you in favour of it? If not, why not? •Finally, I asked you last June about the transfer of powers relating to the health of prisoners to the Public Health FPS. Can you inform me about the progress of this transfer? Can we hope that it will take place before the end of the legislature as promised in the government agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u70	Colleagues, your questions touch on four different points. First, with regard to the death of a prisoner in Nivelles prison at the end of November, I have already had an opportunity to respond to what has happened and what has been reported to me by my services. The death of the person concerned was duly reported to the Public Prosecutor's Office, which sent a medical examiner. The latter concluded that there was a natural death. Previously, the inmate had been seen by the doctor and had actually complained of stomach pain the evening before his death. The prison assistant on duty therefore saw him before leaving his service, but his condition was not considered alarming. However, he was placed on the list of detainees to be seen by the doctor the next day, and the prison assistant asked the night shift to pay attention to developments. It was not necessary to request special supervision for the person concerned because in Nivelles, this supervision is in place for all arrivals, which was the case for that person. So he was seen several times during the night. In addition, the detainee was in a cell with another detainee. No incidents were reported during the night. Unfortunately, the following day, the death was recorded. It was considered natural. The Central Prison Supervision Board called on the Public Prosecutor's Office, which requested further assignments and hearings to shed light on the full course of these events. I will not fail to keep you informed of any follow-up. You will understand, ladies and gentlemen, that at this stage I cannot give you more details on this sad affair. Your questions also ask me about the death protocols to follow. As I pointed out in January, there are clear procedures for death. They include warning the prosecutor's office and the attending doctor or emergency services. Therefore, there are no specific reasons a priori for reviewing these procedures. However, I have asked my administration to analyse any further improvements to these procedures, particularly in terms of reporting. Secondly, there is the need to address prison care, particularly at Nivelles prison. As I have already had the opportunity to mention it in 2021, the unexpected departure of one of the prison doctors has led to a difficult situation. Several doctors have followed each other in order to ensure the best possible continuity of care. It was not until the beginning of this year that the situation stabilized. However, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that your questions also refer to the permanences outside of office hours, on the weekend when only the medical centres in Lantin, Saint-Gilles and Brugge and the interns' quarters in Merksplas and Paifve provide a 24/7 medical service. In other prisons, emergencies are in fact regularly called upon in case of problems. To answer the last question, the Interdepartmental Conference on Public Health and Justice continues to move forward. Following a positive decision by the ICD, the working groups were launched for the development of the future policy on project managers. They have been designated for both the Public Health FPS and the Justice FPS. I will certainly come back to you on this as soon as progress and concrete timing are determined.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u71	Minister, beyond the dramatic and particular situation in Nivelles for which an investigation is under way – there is the will to know exactly what has happened – the question of medical care in prison mentioned above arises, as well as the question of permanence. As you just recalled, there are facilities in which there is a 24-hour, 7-day care facility. For other prisons, this is not the case. Shouldn't this just be reviewed? It is known that it is difficult to call on emergencies and that the procedures are not exactly the same as those in a private home. It seems to me that the question must be asked. As you pointed out, there is a general increase – almost double – in medical care in prison, mainly for internees. But here, does it not take a 24-hour, 7-day-a-7 permanence in all establishments? I hope we can see clearly what happened and what happened. The International Prison Observatory, which was arrested, denounces the lack of continuity of care. It seems to me that we are here in the central question of a permanent presence of someone on the spot. In this regard, I believe that this should be reconsidered.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u72	Mr Minister, I had already asked you about this in January. Indeed, a version of the facts quite different from the one that was visibly reported to you circulates. So I thought it important to ask you again. Of course, the prosecution concludes that there is a natural death. Can it be considered a natural death when you die at night in your cell when you had symptoms for 48 hours? I ask myself the question of the training of people, who are not medical personnel, who decide in such a case that the situation does not deserve immediate medical care. It seems to me that it still takes certain medical skills to be able to make this observation. I therefore wonder to what extent the officers or persons who make these decisions are trained to do so. In the version circulating, there is also the assertion that the deceased man was actually seen by a doctor only through a door window. That seems important to me. Indeed, I am not sure that this meets the legal requirement. I also wonder whether the administration has failed to respond to the request of the Central Penitentiary Supervision Board for an internal investigation to verify, beyond judicial information, that everything has been done correctly and that certain things must not be adjusted, as Mrs Matz has said, with regard to medical permanence. In such situations, it may be thought that relatives of detainees might be tempted to engage the responsibility of the State, for example for non-assistance to persons in danger. There is a real need to improve the management of such cases. To entrust to untrained persons the responsibility to declare that immediate medical care is necessary or not is, in my opinion, risky.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u73	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear an internal investigation is under way, which is an excellent thing. This was essential especially when we see, as is the case here, that the prosecutor's office did not want to follow up on the complaint lodged by the Central Penitentiary Supervisory Board. Finally, what happened in Nivelles is symptomatic of what is generally observed in all our prisons, namely, as has already been said, a lack of medical personnel in prisons. You yourself said that it was the prison assistant who found that the situation of the detainee in question was not of concern. But was this prison assistant trained enough to be able to certify him? It is, in my opinion, up to a doctor to make that judgment. That is why I am joining my colleagues, in particular Mrs Matz. In fact, a medical clinic is indispensable in prison. It is finally the minimum minimum if one wants to respect the dignity of the detainees, but also this famous law of principles which insists on access to health care in prison, as is the case outside. This applies to both physical and mental health. Here I must recall the words recently made by Vincent Spronck, former director of the Mons prison, but also president of the Association francophone des directeurs de prison, according to which 40 per cent of prisoners have a mental health problem and 25 per cent have a severe psychiatric condition. On the basis of this observation, we can only begin to reflect on the need for a medical facility in prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-27-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic762x.u74	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Ducarme's 55026926C was converted into a written question. The other questions will be taken next week.
