ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u1	Mr President, Madam Minister, I will not go back to the negotiations you have been conducting with the police union front for the past year, with a view to implementing the new sectoral agreement. The situation has been particularly difficult last year and the misunderstandings have been important for all unions representing federal and local police officers, but also for anyone who is not involved in these negotiations and who observes, for example, that a proposal for financial means is made in the spring of 2021, then it is declared that there is no financial means available, then that 60 million euros are reappeared again to hear, after a few weeks of demonstrations and negotiations, that 120 million are finally on the negotiating table. While it is important to have a relationship of trust between the internal FPS authorities and our police officers, it is of course essential that an agreement be reached to respond to the legitimate demands of those authorities. Minister, what does the agreement reached with the union front on the attractiveness of the trade and precisely on the baraemic corrections (monthly wages) for the first years of the policeman's career provide? How much do these decisions actually represent for the police and for the CALOGs? What decision is made about the telework allowance, its funding and the staff entitled to it? What decision is it made for the funding of NAPAPs and precisely for what years? What overall budget is decided and on which years of commitment to finance these measures? What proposals have you made regarding wage negotiations for wage revisions? What was the schedule of meetings with representatives of cities and municipalities? What is on the table with Minister Petra De Sutter as part of the enhancement of the federal public service? What did you ask him about the fifth of your integrated police personnel? What about federal funding for police areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u2	Madam Minister, on 28 January you reached an interim agreement with representatives of police unions, the VSOA and the NSPV, on improving the status of the more than 48,000 police officers. Structural wage increases and improvements in career opportunities and working conditions were achieved. This should also make political work more attractive. It is a so-called interim agreement, in which it was agreed that further refining would take place in the coming weeks. Grosso mode we can say that both the operational framework and the CALog staff and the people employed in specialised jobs can count on a substantial wage increase. Even prospective inspectors can count on a net wage increase of 140 euros per month. The NAVAP system would remain an individual right and will focus on a better work-life balance and a flexible career to ensure well-being at work. The target date for entry into force was 1 January 2023. Madam Secretary, what does this structural wage increase mean for the local police zones? I myself am mayor and look at this through double glasses: on the one hand, as a federal MEP who welcomes a structural agreement, on the other hand, from the point of view of my city's finances. Does this mean an increase in federal funding for the police zones? Or should the municipalities take full responsibility for this increase? Secondly, if prospective inspectors can count on a net wage increase of EUR 140, how do you translate that into the operational framework? Do there still differ according to the degree that one possesses? Thirdly, beneficiaries of the NAVAP scheme are invited to remain active until their statutory pension, but still retain the right to use the system. How exactly do you see that? Will there still be federal funding for NAVAP in the future? Fourthly, how will a better work-life balance be deployed? How is that possible? Could you give me a little more explanation about that? What did you agree with the police unions on this? Finally, we are now discussing an interim agreement. What does that mean in the longer term?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u3	Mr. President, Minister, the press recently reported on an agreement between your services and the two majority unions in the police sector (SNPS and SLFP) on a salary increase. Of course, I welcome this agreement. Our forces of law and order deserve special attention. You report a substantial improvement in the status of more than 48,000 police officers and an average structural wage increase of 5%. You also intend to make this profession more attractive, in addition to the investments that will soon be made in infrastructure, equipment and training. Minister, what are the concrete elements of this agreement? On investment, what is the precise time frame for this? Is the salary adjustment only for federal police personnel or is it also for personnel in local police areas? Just like my colleague, I'm a mayor. I'm a member of the Hesbaye Police Area, to be precise. My question will be just as specific: will the local police areas also contribute to this salary recovery under this agreement, given that local finances are in a particularly difficult state?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u4	Madam Minister, I will no longer outline the context, because it is now sufficiently known. I will confine myself to the questions that I believe should be asked here. Is there an effective wage increase? If so, how will it be realised? What exactly does it look like and how much does it actually amount to? Has this agreement been approved by all trade unions? Does it carry the approval away from their supporters? What is the total budget of the wage agreement? From what resources will the government finance this? What about the so-called NAVAP Statute? That question hasn't been asked yet. Does that statute remain as an individual right? Will you ensure that the costs will be covered by a federal budget in the future? From when does the wage agreement begin? Does it have an impact on the 2022 budget? Is there any need for a budget review? The agreement reached by you seems to me, although I am not a mayor, to have an important impact on the local police zones. Will the agreed wage increase be arranged via a federal envelope, or will you transfer the wage increase to the local authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u5	Madam Minister, at the end of January, after a very long discussion, you managed to reach an interim agreement with the two largest police unions, the VSOA and the NSPV. As has already been said, there will be a structural wage increase. Career opportunities and working conditions will be improved. No one can deny that this is a step in the right direction. What is particularly striking to us is that not every union supports that agreement. Both the ACV and the ACOD state that they do not actually agree. The socialist union even immediately announced a strike announcement before mid-February. Furthermore, there is a fear, as has been mentioned, that wage costs will have to be paid by the municipalities and not by your services. Madam Secretary, could you explain why two trade unions voted against? What did they put on the table, which could not be fulfilled in this interim agreement? Will the negotiated wage increase really have an impact on the local police areas, for which it was feared? Can you explain how that will affect the amount of money? To what extent were the local police zones involved in the formation of the agreement you concluded with the police unions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u6	Mr. President, Madam Minister, you and the majority police unions SNPS and SFLP have reached an agreement on the salary adjustment of police officers in our country. In concrete terms, this agreement proposes a budget allocation of EUR 120 million, confirming an increase of EUR 140 net per month for the inspectors aspirants and EUR 70 net per month for the police officers. This agreement is described as historical by some, but insufficient by the CGSP and the CSC, who abstained and expressed their concerns about the lack of a guarantee for the maintenance of NAPAP, and concerns the salaries and working conditions of police officers, in order to upgrade this profession and make it more attractive. A second round of negotiations was announced to address issues related to the quality of police work, including violence against our law enforcement agencies, as well as the career development of senior police officers. Concertation with local authorities is also being announced. Minister, can you provide me with the details of this agreement, the increases for the various statutes within the integrated policy, the agenda and the budgets that have been set? Could you provide me with an update on the NAPAP issue and your intentions in this regard? What agenda is planned to discuss the second round of talks with the police unions? What about the timing and ambition of negotiations with local authorities? Finally, what proposals for improvement and progress on the qualitative aspect of the work of police officers are on the table, specifically on combating violence against police officers and on the provisions on the working conditions of police officers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u7	Mr. Chair, Minister, on January 28, 2022, a new negotiating committee was held as part of the discussions on a sectoral agreement. Trade union organisations were invited to comment on the proposals currently on the table. It would appear that legitimate and important expectations have not been met or will be postponed. The CSC Police and the CGSP gave an unfavourable opinion. As for the SNPS and SLFP Police, they gave a favourable opinion conditionally. For the CSC Police, the proposals submitted were considered insufficient on the grounds, among other things, that the operational framework expected a higher salary increase. As a reminder, a very targeted first corrective had been agreed by the trade union organisations in 2018, during the previous sectoral negotiations, on the condition that the baraemic scales of all colleagues would be substantially increased in the future. However, the simulations reported correspond to an average range of between 40 and 70, as they may still vary depending on the fiscal situation of the staff member and his current treatment, which is little in the light of the inflation experienced by the general population, including our police officers. Then, decisions were made for the CALOGs. A correction has been made for levels C and D, but the amounts are small and do not allow the staff concerned to feel recognized. Levels A are excluded from the agreement for this part. In addition, the planned implementation of this correction is only planned from 2023 onwards. Finally, with regard to the second phase of negotiations, this is scheduled for 2024, at the end of the legislature. This seems to us to be a real bet on the future. Minister, how do you justify, with supporting figures, the choices that have been made? For what reasons did you not agree with the proposals of the CSC and the FGTB? Why did you step up negotiations on two occasions? For what reasons do you expect until 2024 to begin the second phase of negotiations? What about the maintenance of NAPAP and the implementation of telework within the integrated police, including allowances? What is the impact on local authorities and police areas of this agreement, which I call an intermediary?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u8	Madam Secretary, after months of negotiation, you succeeded. Together with the trade unions NSPV and VSOA you reached an interim agreement on a substantial improvement of the status of our policemen. You get a train on the move that stopped for 20 years. You will certainly receive my sincere congratulations. Your agreement includes a wage increase for both operational and civilian staff and the maintenance of the NAVAP scheme as well as an individual right. It has also been agreed to work towards a better balance of work-free time and a more flexible career for police personnel. Those are great prospects. The ACV and the ACOD did not co-sign the interim agreement. However, we are told that further work will continue in the coming weeks on the refinement of the agreement. Will you try again to involve these two trade unions in the discussions? The NAVAP scheme is retained as an individual right, but in your press release we read that you will do everything you can to encourage people to continue working even after their 58th. How will this happen in concrete terms? Have any plans been drawn up or made? You have always said that you did not want to lose sight of the position of local authorities in the negotiation of this agreement. How did they react? How are the agreed financial efforts divided between the federal government and the local authorities? Have agreements been reached with this agreement on an arrangement for the side-inflow of specialized profiles? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u9	Mr President, Madam Minister, like my colleagues, I must intervene in this topical debate because our police officers are entitled to a salary increase. They have been deprived of them for nearly 20 years while their missions are only increasing, intensifying and diversifying. The attacks or the health crisis have shown us this again. An agreement, expected for months, was finally reached with two unions on 28 January. In your opinion, this would be a victory and, in our view, it is a matter of powder in the eyes. That is why a substantial part of our police force today rejects the solutions that you have proposed in this context because they do not meet the urgent need to make their profession more attractive. It is not for nothing that the CGSP has filed a notice of strike which will begin on February 15. You propose to the police officers a salary increase of up to 70 euros net per month immediately but you ask them to wait until 2024 to determine if new margins can possibly be released by then, in other words, you pass the hot potato to your successor. Moreover, while it is true that a revalorisation of the social scales of the forces of law and order is a necessity, the question also arises of its financing between the different levels of power, since the financing of the police areas depends to a large extent on the communal allocations. The economic and health crisis still weighs heavily on the finances of local authorities, particularly in Brussels. Between the endowments to the CPAS that fly away, the tax revenues of natural persons that decrease and the baraemic increase of the communal agents, the communal budgets are in the red and many communes sound the alarm. Minister, what are the elements that are preventing a real salary increase for our police officers today? Where will the EUR 120 million come from? Who will bear the budgetary cost of raising the salaries of law enforcement officers in local police areas? Does the government intend to intervene financially to support communal finances? Why set a date for the reopening of negotiations in 2024 and not before? Finally, why was the continuation of the end-of-career schemes simply excluded from the negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u10	Mr President, I have tabled two questions. For the first, I refer to the written text.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u11	Let me turn to my second question. Minister, you have been negotiating a sectoral agreement with the police for months to raise salaries that have not increased in 20 years. The CGSP and the CSC rejected your proposal for a pre-agreement and the affiliates of the other two unions also expressed dissatisfaction with a proposal that they considered to be far too meagre. The trade unions have repeatedly criticized you for your way of working in the exchanges. Last week, mayors rebelled against an agreement for which they were not even consulted. Your decision is likely to impact the finances of all the municipalities to the tune of EUR 30 million and you clearly did not find it useful to talk to them. We have already told you that the municipalities are for the most part exsanguous and cannot afford to bear the cost of these decisions. There is a need for the federal government to assume its funding responsibilities. On the BX1 channel, one of these mayors testifies to the dilemma you are putting them in. I quote: "We will have to hire fewer police officers, or make savings elsewhere, when we know that there is a strong pressure on communal finances". Minister, are you going to explain yourself to the Conference of Mayors, as they asked you to do? Will the federal government bear the cost of the decisions you have taken without consulting the mayors?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u12	First of all, I will give an update to deal with the more focused questions about the sectoral negotiations afterwards. Indeed, on Friday 28 January in the negotiating committee 537 I concluded an interim conditional agreement with the two main police trade unions, in particular NSPV/SNPS and VSOA/SLFP, on a new sectoral agreement for the integrated police. Mrs. Goethals, you complained that it took a very long time. It is then appropriate to put everything in perspective. The previous sectoral agreement, concluded by Mr Jambon, on a very small piece, in particular meal cheques, has been delayed for four years. Given the pandemic, it is difficult to talk about a very long negotiation process. Such a process always lasts longer than everyone wants at the table, but we are far from at the end of the legislature and there is an agreement. I would stress that the agreement concerns both the federal and local police forces and covers both the operational and the administrative and logistical framework, including the federal government and local authorities. Moreover, it was my intention and that of the trade unions to conclude a sectoral agreement with both a quantitative and a qualitative component. Both parts must increase the attractiveness of the police, and that is why we are talking about an interim agreement. We have agreed on the quantitative aspect, but the qualitative part is still to follow. Key for staff are both a proper wage and job satisfaction, which is linked to many aspects. In addition to more individual, personal factors, there is also a range of organisational elements such as infrastructure, innovative resources, computers, IT, good equipment, performing working procedures, telework................................................................................................................................................................. The qualitative part of the sectoral agreement should also cover that second element, job satisfaction. Discussions over the last period focused on the quantitative component, more specifically wage increases and/or corrections of operational staff and CALog police personnel. We continue to work, there is still work to be done. It will never be finished to improve the status of policemen. The agreement must now be incorporated into regulatory texts. There is a basic agreement on the principles, but of course this must be translated into the necessary royal decisions to correct the statutes of all those policemen. That's gonna take some time. This is no different from previous agreements in sectoral negotiations, not only with the police, but also elsewhere. There is also the budgetary translation of the agreement at federal level in accordance with the agreements made in the Council of Ministers. For the budgetary part, I will continue the consultation with the local authorities. Mr Boukili, I can therefore already deny that there would have been no consultation with the local authorities. Local authorities are invited to negotiate each time. We also had contacts with them. It is quite incorrect that there would have been no consultations with the local authorities. They may also always intervene at meetings of consultation committees and negotiating committees. In view of the fact that we are further developing the qualitative component and still need to prepare the texts, we planned the entry into force of the new sectoral agreement on 1 January. This will make its further settlement foreseeable. We have indeed set out to work in two phases. This spring we have finished the first phase and then we will finish the rest in order for the agreement to enter into force on 1 January. In 2024 we will then examine with the local authorities what other improvements are possible. That date is also aligned with the local authorities. The local elections in 2024 can also be decisive. We will then be able to take into account the new majorities in the local authorities. In addition, we can align with the negotiations with the staff of the local authorities. That is why we work in two phases and keep the perspective. That is my commitment to the local authorities. But, of course, we cannot anticipate the outcome. By working in two phases, we can end a two- decades standstill in the baremic wage increases of the integrated police. At the end of this year, the integrated police will enjoy an additional advantage, as the meal cheques will be introduced from 1 November. That agreement was negotiated in 2018, but only enters into force almost four years after its date. At the time there was no coordination with the local authorities, while the introduction of meal cheques costs the local authorities EUR 36 million, if I am not mistaken. So we're dealing with things differently now. Account should also be taken of the budgetary burden on public administrations. I shall return to the content of the agreement we have concluded. The interim agreement with the two largest trade unions amounts to just over EUR 120 million. However, I do not want to cling to specific amounts, because the calculation also depends on the personal situations of the staff of the integrated police, especially in the light of their fiscal regime. However, it can generally be said that for police operational staff there will be a raise of around EUR 1,000 gross per year and for levels B, C and D CALogs a wage adjustment based on a comparison with similar baremas in the federal public sector. There have been increases in the past, but now the baremas of the CALogs will be aligned with the baremas in the federal public office. Mrs Matz, I can confirm that the choices, which were made in collaboration with the trade union organisations, have been taken over. Over time, the actors around the table agreed on a linear increase from €1,000 on an annual basis to 100% for the operational framework. For administrative and logistical managers (CAlog), it was decided to propose an adjustment, a salary connection, based on similar salary scales in the public service. As I have just said, it would make no sense to require for this target group more than is intended for members of the federal public service. This is why Level A CALOGs are not eligible under the current framework. Indeed, they are already at the same level with regard to public service scales. Moreover, the government and trade unions have very consciously agreed not to have net amounts but to have annual gross amounts during the wage negotiations. This is always about non-indexed amounts. In this respect, it is important to ensure that the planned gross increases lead to a net increase of EUR 70 on average. As I indicated, the gross net ratio obviously depends on the specific personal situation. The example of a monthly net effect based on the current parameters should not be blinded. The final net profit for the people will be clear in the tax bill the following year. Moreover, account must also be taken of the positive impact of gross increases on the holiday allowance, the end-of-year allowance, overtime, weekend and night hours, all of which must be taken into account. This, of course, makes it impossible at present to give all these amounts specific to the staff volume of the integrated police. In view of the attractiveness of the police, we have ensured that prospective inspectors who start their basic training in the specific degree of prospective inspector can be scaled up according to the wage scale B1. That means a substantial raise. A budget review for 2022 is not necessary because it will enter into force in 2023, and is therefore entered in the budget of 2023. In addition to the quantitative agreement, three other protocols have been agreed with the trade unions. The first concerns the intention for the wage negotiations phase two in 2024, together with the local authorities and the rhythm of the local authorities. The second is a telework allowance, similar to what has been proposed for the federal public office, which is, of course, adapted to the specific police department. Thirdly, there is a reference to the NAVAP scheme, in which we have indicated that the aim is, of course, to keep as many people at work as possible, including through an activation policy. It is in the interests of the people themselves, but also of the police, to get as much expertise as possible on board, also in the light of previous agreements made on this subject. With regard to your two questions concerning the two trade unions who are currently unable to agree with the amount proposed, I can tell you that they give the reason to find the amount inadequate and that they want the dossier to be put back on the table of the Federal Government's Council of Ministers in order to obtain a higher amount. I have done so several times in the course of the negotiations, and I have often raised the matter with colleagues. I have told them that I have always acted within the budgetary context for the first stage of wage increases and that it is therefore not possible to increase the amount at this time. We all know that you yourself have referred to the socio-economic and budgetary context of our country, partly as a result of the COOVID-19 pandemic. However, that has not led me to do nothing. On the contrary, we have taken up the gauntlet, especially since the police have played a very important role in controlling the corona measures and in maintaining public order during the pandemic. So, despite the situation, after 20 years of standstill, we decided to make the police more attractive and invest in it. I would like to thank you all, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to invite you to work with me on this in the debates that we are still going to have. I would also like to thank the two trade unions who gave their agreement. Of course, the pressure is high on all sides. These negotiations were, of course, conducted within the budgetary context of the federal government and of the local authorities, but certainly also within the context of the trade union membership, which is a challenging context. I have a great understanding of that. I would certainly like to thank those who finally joined us for their faith in this agreement and for their faith in this process that we will continue together. As far as the qualitative aspect is concerned, it is important that, together with the police and the trade unions, we can define a number of themes that we can take further. These are a number of rapid achievements that are possible, but also other themes that we would like to discuss and prepare in this legislature, for example on mobility and training and on other things that can improve attractiveness. In any case, it is our common ambition to do this together with the trade unions, within this legislature, and to complete it as much as possible. As I said earlier, the road will never be complete and we must be able to work on this in the years ahead. Although the themes are not yet determined for the qualitative aspect, I can already inform you, Mr Senesael, that measures concerning violence against police officers will probably not, as such, be part of the qualitative aspect. But this remains very important! That was part of my policy note for 2022. As the Minister responsible for integrated police, I am working closely with my Justice colleague and with local authorities, which are employers in local police areas, and federal police chiefs and local police areas. It is not because this is not part of the sectoral agreement that we will not continue to work on this point. With regard to a next set of questions and comments, I have already said that the government, including the local government, is represented at the negotiating table. For the local police areas, the Permanent Commission of the Local Police is the permanent interlocutor. In addition, the associations of cities and municipalities, both Flemish, Brussels and Walloon, are systematically invited to the negotiating committee. They can obviously take the floor there when appropriate. Mr Boukili, I understand that you are referring to the conference of the mayors of the six Brussels police zones, because Brulocalis represents the communes and CPAS, but not the six Brussels police zones. Nevertheless, the representatives of Brulocalis were invited to the negotiations and can always intervene. In fact, opinions, suggestions and ideas around the table have always been asked to be communicated during the negotiations. With the associations of cities and municipalities, we have agreed that we will seek a financing mechanism to cover the additional costs of this budgetary agreement. We must take the steps when they can be taken in this process of negotiation. Of course, we understand the difficult budgetary context for many cities and municipalities. That is why we have paid attention to it during the negotiation procedures. We will, of course, take this into account and find a balance so that the pressure on the municipalities does not increase at this difficult time. To give details, if we are talking about EUR 120 million for the sectoral agreement, we are talking about a proportion of about 75% that concerns the local police, i.e. 91 million and a few more euros for the local authorities. In general, the share of federal funding in local police services today is around 40%. The municipal donations amount to about 60%. That stock fluctuates from time to time. That's how it works today. You know that in the States-General of the Police work is under way on the multidisciplinary committee for financing local police areas, so that we can see how funding can be done in the right way. Of course, this also depends on the optimal size of the police zones. By the next budget cycles, we want to see if changes are needed. This is how I come to the questions about NAPAP. NAPAP is known as it was shaped by the Royal Decree of 9 November 2015. This is an essential element of negotiations with trade unions. As I have already said, NAPAP still exists in its original form, but work continues on an additional activation of the target group concerned, the aim being to maintain this expertise within the integrated police force, but also to reduce its cost in the future. In this exercise, account will also be taken of existing pension schemes for other public service professions. Discussions within the federal government will be organized on this issue. It is important to note that this government understands very well the concerns of the unions, but also of the integrated police as an organization, about NAPAP. It is a system inherited from the past. Structural funding has never been foreseen, which is why further debates should take place each year in the context of budgetary discussions. It is therefore important to find a solution. That is what we are currently working on. I have replied to the questions put by the chairman of the committee and Mr Moyaers. We are looking at the NAVAP scheme, and to that end, funding has already been agreed in the latest budgetary control. That is, of course, the starting point. Mrs. Taquin, you had a question about telework. Today, the telework allowance is not provided for the status of a police officer. Referring to the Minister of the Public Service's policy note and its objective of increasing the telework allowance to EUR 50 per month for civil servants working at home four days a month, I have committed to support this initiative within the government with a view to opening up the right to work in the police sector and to developing a regulation that takes into account the specific nature of work in the police force. Some jobs are not suitable for telework and should be taken into account by providing internal instructions in order to ensure consistent application within the IPM for staff. During the covid crisis, some areas regularly used telework and others did not. We therefore need a harmonised system for integrated police. A working group is currently working on this issue in consultation with trade union organizations. My objective is for a GPI circular to determine the framework for telework and the arrangements for granting a telework allowance for the operational framework CALog and for the various functions of the police profession, without affecting the purpose of telework. The work of this working group has already begun and, as I pointed out in my policy note for 2022, the search for a better balance between work and privacy, as well as leaving a certain degree of autonomy and self-management for staff members, is helping to make the police organization attractive. The covid period allowed the integrated police to become even more familiar with the telework that was already applied in the past for certain functions and police services. The development and provision of the IT resources needed to enable more extensive home work was accelerated in 2020 and 2021. For example, in 2021, the integrated police developed a framework note for the separate work of the spatial-temporal framework for the relevant functions. This note is the subject of discussions with the union partners and the intention is to implement it in 2022. It is therefore important to find a better balance between work and private life. That is why I made this an important priority in the 2022 policy paper. During the corona pandemic, the police also became familiar with teleworking. The development of the necessary support, for example in the field of IT, should also be borne in mind. Mr Briers, specialized profiles are not included in the quantitative part of the interim agreement we have made, but this must certainly be covered in the qualitative part. That's very important. We have also seen the communication of certain specialised profiles in the police. I think we should do everything we can to ensure that we can recruit them quickly. One is looking to see if one can recruit those specialist profiles faster than is the case today. This can also help to better arm the police in the fight against organised crime. That is certainly on the agenda. In this way, we can recruit specialised financial or cyber detectives via a side-influx. This could be a way of strengthening the FGP, among other things. That is what we are working on, but that is not yet part of the first agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u13	Minister, I have certainly received some answers to some questions, but there is still some confusion. As soon as yesterday, the presidents of the police zones received a letter from the Unions of Cities and Municipalities (the Walloons, the Flemish and the Brussels). I'll read it to you. "As you know, the Minister of the Interior has announced that she has concluded an interim sectoral agreement, covering only the quantitative part, with two trade union organisations, the SLFP and the SNPS. The two signatory unions have made a series of comments which condition their agreement. We do not yet know how the minister stands on these conditions. The CGSP, on the other hand, filed a strike notice on the basis of sectoral negotiations. This strike notice will be negotiated this morning on February 9." I think the minister has come back and it's very active. "It is in this context of the negotiation of this sectoral agreement and these negotiations related to the notice of strike of the CGSP that we send you this information circular. In concrete terms, the agreement covers a recovery of EUR 121 million for the integrated police, including EUR 91 million for the local police, for NAPAP, the maintenance of the regime, which costs EUR 50 million, including 40 million for the local police, for telework and the introduction of an ad hoc allowance of EUR 30 million, including EUR 22.5 million for the local police, and for a second phase of negotiations with local authorities in 2024." You will excuse me, but "as early as 2024", we know very well that the communal elections are held in October, that we take an oath in December. So in 2024, nothing will happen because the new majorities will only be in place in December. Knowing that we are also voting in the federal government in 2024, will there be a government or not? We don't know that. In their capacity as representatives of police areas and communes, the Unions of Cities and Communes were indeed invited to formal negotiation meetings, but without any real consultation between the federal and local levels. It was in fact during bilateral meetings between the minister and the trade union organizations that things were decided. The Unions of Cities and Municipalities complain that they are not really heard and the mayors also carry this voice, because they are on the ground and know the local finances. As for the Minister's commitment to the opening of new negotiations with the Unions of Cities and Municipalities as early as 2024, we have, since the beginning of the discussions, reported on the problematic financial situation of the police areas and the communes, and on the impossibility for our members to finance a revalorisation of the salaries of the police personnel. We do not see any indication that this situation could improve significantly to the point where the financing of new revalorisations could be envisaged from the beginning of 2024, particularly in the context of the increased costs carried over by the federal government on communal finances in terms of police and fire. We cannot therefore endorse the Minister's commitment on this point, since the assessment of the possibility of studying further revalorisations is not possible before the constitution of the future communal majorities. I'll give you the rest. Minister, you have received the mail and you will have time to read it. All this to tell you that the police grunt. The Unions of Cities and Municipalities grunt. The mayors are concerned because they want the personnel of the police areas to be upgraded in a comprehensive manner. We believe that what is decided by the federal government, and you have our support at that level, must be funded by the federal government. We go from illusions to disillusionments to delusions and fall back into disillusionments. That's not right! Partial revalorisation is a first step, but we expect an overall revalorisation and, as I said, federal-funded. The three Unions of Cities and Municipalities write it. They believe that the minister is not entitled to commit communal finances. I didn't get an answer to all my questions. I will, of course, come back to you with the outstanding issues. I am this subject very carefully because, like any mayor, I have to give answers to my chief of corps and to the police zone by looking after the communal finances. I can already tell you this today: it is not just a question of putting amounts in budgets, it is a question of banking these amounts and being able to pay them. The municipalities are unable to take charge of what is going to be decided at the federal level. As far as decisions are concerned, we need to go a step further. I have no doubt that you are making every effort to do this, but I think that, given the panel of Members who are asking questions today and who are interested in sectoral agreements, I am astonished at the lack of support you have shown, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u14	Minister, thank you for your very specific answers. I will not repeat what my excellent colleague has just said. In fact, it's been the same story every time for 20 years. We know the end: communal finances are at the end of the race, called to drink. My view is that our country deserves better than that. Police reform has passed. It's integrated. It works well or less well, it depends. Our state today spends a lot of money (our citizens wonder how we're going to finance all this) and needs are felt everywhere in all areas. There are essential and necessary refinancings in all areas. It seems to me that the safety of our fellow citizens is one of the key elements of living together. Minister, I invite you to clarify this and to work more closely with the local authorities who are called upon to finance much of our daily safety. On reading the figures you have added, when I hear what Mrs Taquin has expressed, I quickly calculate 142 million for the local authorities. Like that, suddenly, one time! In response, I understand that agreements could be reached. No! At some point, it is necessary to be able to give a readability to the local authorities, to the citizens then, but also to our police officers. I think we must dare this national debate. We have the chance in this federal Parliament to have elected mayors who relay concrete information directly from the field, because we have to answer questions that are asked to us daily. I urge you, Madam Minister, to dare this debate, that of clarity. Police reform is 20 years old and even older. It would be a good idea to take stock of the situation. Let us remember the promises of the time. We had been told very seriously that it would cost no money to finance the communes! You know this debate. It is regularly expressed in front of you, even if you are not the only one responsible. Nevertheless, there is a collective responsibility. Let's take it. Let us dare this public debate once and for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u15	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive explanation. I realize this is not an easy task for you. It requires a great deal of courage and it deserves sincere respect that you want to take up that glove. I believe that everyone here at the table, whether digitally present or not, is aware that the expectations of the police have definitely increased. I note that the task package has become much more complex and that the psychosocial pressure on our policemen has increased. Today there is a lot of experience among policemen and their expertise is very important for the functioning of the police. The NAVAP scheme remains an individual right and it is positive that rightholders are invited to stay active for longer, but I do not see how we can keep those rightholders active for longer. Perhaps one can be convinced with a strong plan, but that is something for the future. If it doesn't work, there's a solid cost to it. The problems for the local authorities were raised by the colleagues and myself. I see it as positive that you want to further develop the qualitative part and sit down with the local authorities at the table, but there too the challenges are not minor. Let me give you the example of Herk-de-City. The amount to the police today represents 10.6 percent of the operating budget. We are certainly no exception. Each year, the police also ask local government for a growth margin of almost 4% on the amount. Today there are still some index overruns. I think our financial director is holding his heart to a possible question about an increase in the growth rate of donation to the local police. That also puts pressure on our multiannual plan. Our police area has a staff budget of no less than EUR 35 million, and I am concerned that 5% would be added. I think I have heard in your reply that it is your intention not to increase the financial pressure on the municipalities. If a structural wage increase would also fall into the bowl of local governments, then the fat is off the soup for a lot of local budgets. Finally, a point of interest which has already been mentioned in part by Mr Taquin. It is not a simple piste to lift some things about the federal and local elections of 2024. The cards can be shaken twice by the voter in 2024. New ship lectures are generally formed fairly quickly, but federal dares to take a bit longer. That is not without risk and therefore a serious point of attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u16	Madam Minister, I can actually describe your answer in one word as a half-hearted arrangement. I have a number of reasons for that. I also note this in the speech of the majority party MR, which seems to belong to the opposition. I also notice this in the trade unions. Two unions agree, two unions disagree. I also note the fact that the NAVAP scheme continues to exist. There is no structural budgetary solution for this. I can especially tell by the timing. You have an interim agreement now, but it doesn't start until 2023. So you're moving the hot potato directly to next year. Of course, this year there will be no need for a change in the budget. Of course, that doesn't solve anything. It is even worse if you want to start the second phase of negotiations in 2024, when there are not only municipal elections ahead but also federal elections. So you are making commitments to a majority that will no longer be there at the time. You know as well as I do that in 2024 nothing will come of a second phase of these negotiations. In addition, it has already been mentioned by several colleagues that the water is very popular with local authorities. They will have to make these budgetary efforts. What is needed is a review of the timing, Madam Secretary. One should not wait until 2023 for the first stage to come. We certainly should not wait until 2024 for the second stage of wage negotiations, because that is all a waste of time. I can follow you if you want to increase the attractiveness of the police officer's status. Indeed, there is still a great deal of work to be done in terms of quality. That is something that we in this House must work on together with you in this legislature. It also has a lot to do with the redrafting of the funding of the police zones. You referred to that yourself. Of course, it also has to do with the redrawing of the police landscape. Which tasks should be carried out federally and which tasks should be carried out at the local level? All these things must be cleared up as quickly as possible, before a new financing and a new budgetary effort can be made. Madam Minister, I hope that this will not be a long-term work and that you will not put this on the long track but will make it work in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u17	Madam Secretary, I am afraid I have to repeat myself somewhat. I can only agree with what the previous speakers have said. We can see that clearly. There are a number of mayors present in the room or online and they do not feel involved. Eventually, the municipalities will have to pay at the end of the journey. I find it rather easy to say that they will get a raise and then look at how this is going to be budgeted. That is not the normal way of doing things. You will only now sit with the VVSG to see how it can be paid at the end of the journey. I think that's a little crazy. That's spending money that they don't have yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u18	Mrs Goethals, how did Mr Jambon do in 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u19	Mr Jambon is no longer in that chair today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u20	I'm just asking. How else would you do it? How did Mr. Jambon do that in 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u21	I'm not sitting in your chair today, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u22	You comment, but you don't provide solutions. More than that, your own party's former Minister of the Interior, has done much worse. He forwarded the invoice to the next government and, moreover, the local authorities were not involved at all, as we did. I simply note that your comment is a little vain, by referring to it, whereas the previous minister has done much worse. How else was it supposed to happen? That's just a question. If you have no idea, I'll write that down, but it might be worth thinking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u23	I don't have to think about that today. I find it extremely easy to keep referring back. In fact, you are not the only one who does this, and so is your colleague Vandenbroucke. It's a little cheap to keep comparing it to a previous government. I think that's a weak argument. I can say in advance that it will be quoted. It's incredibly weak.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u24	It says something about the content of your comment. You say it's very easy to do this. If it's so obvious to do things differently, why haven't my predecessors done it differently? What would your suggestion be to do differently? These negotiations concern a multi-party process and we must work step by step. I now have an agreement with two trade unions. You're acting like we're just passing everything on to the local boards. That is fundamentally wrong. I therefore ask you what else you would do. You say it is not your job and I take note of it. So you have no idea. I'll take note of that, that's no problem. However, our search for alternatives has not helped with your reply today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u25	Madam Secretary, have I ever said it was an easy task? You didn't hear me say that. I never said that, and I never will. It's not easy. I never said or said otherwise. I can only see today that a lot of mayors are worried about how this will have to be paid. I didn't just report that. It's rude that you're only passing on to me here. It's too bad. You may be displeased with our party for some reason. I can't change that. It is and it will continue to be. It's a shame how things went down. I do not know if you remember, but I have pointed out that it is a step in the right direction. However, you always seem to forget such phrases when I pronounce them. You're not quoting those sentences. So you are making a selective list of what I said or would not have said. I indicated I wouldn't repeat myself. Mrs Taquin has read a very nice letter, which shows that not only me and the N-VA are displeased. Other parties are also displeased and worried about payment. It's just about that. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u26	Minister, I will be very brief not to be redundant. I would like to highlight the progress already made, and thank you for that. It is also necessary to see the glass half full rather than half empty. On the other hand, I cannot remain indifferent to the comments which have been raised and drawn up by my colleagues in terms of timing, local finances and consultation with local authorities. All of this seems essential to me. The NAPAP problem remains for the areas, in terms of their local finances, a problem that needs to be raised with a high head and with a solution. Madam Minister, I also thank you for highlighting the continued priority of your policy brief on combating violence against police officers. Although this is not part of the agreement as such at the union level, I am pleased that this priority is maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u27	Minister, thank you for this extremely detailed answer, as usual. If the subject wasn't so serious, I'd say "with the friends we have, no need of enemies." You will have understood that, of course, the members of the majority who oppose or criticise this agreement highlight all the limits of an agreement that I have called an intermediary. To these members of the majority, I would like to say that they are part of the same government as you, and that it may be important that additional means be made available not only to reach a less late agreement, so as not to delay future governments, but also to be able to honour, vis-à-vis local authorities, the bill that might be theirs in the coming months. In addition to any agreements you may find, this remains extremely unclear and is absolutely not secure for local agents who are facing a mass of costs, especially since the pandemic. So I really invite members of the majority to support the minister when she asks for additional resources. We will return earlier to the delicate case of the judicial police and the means allocated to the federal police. Of course, it is easy to criticize. I must admit that I am also tempted to do so. But given the number of members of the majority who have already done so, I would be ashamed. I regret, of course, the vagueness of the agreement, the deadlines, the means used, the too late deadline for this revalorisation. I also regret that a structural solution is not proposed for NAPAP, not only for the federal police, but also for the local police. I would remind you that, in the 2022 budget, there were no compensation for EUR 4 million of NAPAP. You said that this amount should be taken from the federal police's active personnel credits. In so doing, he will still be deprived of resources. I remind members of the majority that the police are subject to linear savings, savings that they voted for. Today, according to them, the police do not have enough resources, etc., to which we subscribe extremely strongly. But, at some point, we need to have more ideas and to measure the consequences of the actions we pose. Madam Minister, in the coming weeks we will come back to you with new questions about how you intend to relieve the local finances that need them. The cost involved should not be fully charged to them when they are already exsanguous.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u28	Minister, thank you for your response. I understand, of course, that the situation is far from easy for you, but you have the courage to conduct these discussions, and you have finally been able to reach an interim proposal, which is already good. I thank you for this progress, which I believe is in the right direction, even though it raises some questions and questions. I would like to highlight three elements. First of all, my disappointment with NAPAP. At this stage, there is no real structural budgetary solution for the police, both federal and local. There is, therefore, a great deal of work to be done in this area. For me, this must be the real priority for the coming year. Then comes the question of communal finances. As I have already told you, I believe that we need to incorporate this central issue into our thinking, which should not lead us to take decisions at federal level which have a significant impact on municipal finances, which are already in a large hurry like lemons. In my view, there is no question here of inserting budget lines on a paper which could not then be paid. Therefore, I sincerely believe that we are spending a great deal of money on security in this country, and that is normal. Police zones, relief zones and civil protection are important issues for the security of the country, but also for our citizens. What is calling me, however, is how we have spent those budgets and that money for decades. In the end, minister, I would like to ask you today whether we should not question how we are financing the police more comprehensively. A little like we did in the past with the Defence, where we were able to criticise a number of military purchases, I wish we could think about this together today. This may lead us to structural solutions for the structural financing of NAPAP, a revision of the impact on communal finances or a revision of our method of financing relief areas. By having the courage to take stricter and clearer positions on how we spend these millions on the police, we may be able to find millions that already exist, but which will finance budget lines important for the proper functioning of this reform, which, as my colleague Goffin has said, shows good and bad functioning. I believe that what we all say here with my colleagues is that we must be able to solve things that do not work as quickly as possible. Minister, I just want to say thank you for what you have done so far. I hope you will be able to come back in the coming months with further progress on these proposals for police upgrading.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u29	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. First, I would like to confirm that you will be given every support from our party to bring this agreement to a successful conclusion with the police. It's a partial agreement. There's progress. As you said yourself, it is going much faster than your predecessor who held office between 2014 and 2018. Each mayor has drawn up a budget for his police area and determined that the meal cheques are now finally in it, four years after date. This has not actually been discussed with the representatives of the local authorities, but they have to pay for it. You are going for a different method, and I would like to congratulate you on that. You explained that this agreement will enter into force on 1 January 2023 and that further negotiations will be needed with the VVSG and with the representatives of the cities and municipalities in the other regions. I believe that we should support you in getting the EUR 120 million budget for 2023. I think they should come entirely from the federal level. We have a lot of mayors on this committee. I believe that it is also up to us to give input to organisations like the VVSG that the water is on our lips. I would also like to point out that the VVSG and the other organisations have an advisory role in the negotiations. They have no decisive role to play. But I do think it would be a good idea to talk to them bilaterally to see how big the margin is. I'm on the same page as Mrs Taquin. In 2024 nothing will be done about funding by the municipalities and by the cities. That is the reality of the local elections in 2024. Madam Secretary, I have another question about the Traffic Fine Fund. I heard some of the funding would come through the traffic ticket fund. I would like to have some clarification on that. Is that on the table today or is that a rumor that is not substantiated in substance? In the latter case, I do not need an answer at the moment. Finally, I would like to talk about the NAVAP scheme. I understand that you want to maintain it, as part of this agreement. Our party would have preferred to see an accelerated extinguishment scenario for this scheme, which is a bridge pension scheme anyway, because we want everyone to work longer. We look forward to the proposals that you will make to keep everyone at work in addition to this bridge pension scheme. It's an extinct scenario, only at 30 years. The people who were eligible for that NAVAP before 10 July 2014 will continue to be entitled to and will be able to apply for it. That could take another 30 years, I'm afraid. We are in favour of speeding up work on something else.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u30	Mr President, first of all I would like to address Mrs Taquin. You belong to the majority, you must know that the members of the government will find a solution together. And they'll find it. Mrs Chanson and the other members of the majority seem to have understood that. You don't seem to be aware of that. Or are we uncertain whether we will achieve that result? Colleagues, our chiefs of police and mayors know that they can also offer solutions themselves. I feel from the colleagues who are mayor that they want to do the same. Especially in my own province, with the largest number of police areas in our country, a new merger movement can solve some of the problems, both financially and in terms of manpower and effectiveness. Mr Vandenput made a number of suggestions. I am still convinced that the inclusion of civil protection in the large areas of aid could already be a major saving, which will enable us to achieve some of this additional expenditure for the police. Madam Secretary, I wish you every success in the further negotiations. You will undoubtedly be able to count on all the mayors, parliaments and others, in order to achieve a correct, dignified and budgetary result with you for their police.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u31	Mrs Taquin, you have the floor for a personal fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u32	Mr President, I am surprised that one might suggest that there is waste in the financial management of the organisation of the police at the national or local level. Being on the ground, I would like to recall that the areas sometimes operate in an archaic manner and with equally archaic material. So don't think the money would be thrown out the windows. I would like to say here that all the police areas are operating at a tight flow from a financial point of view. I would also like to address the honourable Member who spoke before me. Sir, there is no need to come and explain to me what a majority is. I practice it every day, as the mayor of a commune. And my majority is doing perfectly well. However, I may have to remind you, since you seem to be unaware of this, that the overall review of police funding is foreseen in the government agreement through the reform of the KUL standard. I believe, as far as I am concerned - and this should also be your case - that this reform must be financed by the federal government and not by the municipalities. That's what we're saying, as mayors! And I'm surprised that as such, you didn't call it enough. That is why I would like to let the minister know that I do not understand the current lack of support. I say it loud and clear, in particular, and also as a member of the majority. I will keep reminding him, as has been the case for several months. I also recall that I was on the front line to defend NAPAP, which I intend to continue to do. I therefore expect the structural measures mentioned to be put in place. We can belong to the majority and point out what is wrong, while giving our support in order to move forward. It's in this line I sign up for. I therefore support the minister to go as far as possible. As my colleague, Philippe Goffin, said, she has the support of the MR. But as a member of this party, I am surprised by certain things. It's important to say so. I'm not here today to serve soup or to throw flowers, if they don't have a minimum of thorns.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u33	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. In any case, we see that the measures you have put in place are not unanimous, far from that, among the police, but not in your own majority either. It's quite amazing with Vivaldi! We wonder who makes the decisions. Every time a decision is made, it is criticized by everyone. Are there still Councils of Ministers, or does each minister come with his "thing"? Indeed, I do not understand that logic. If we are in the majority, Madam Minister, it is not your responsibility alone; a measure taken by the Minister of the Interior is a measure of the majority of the government. This means that the whole government is responsible for it. But if there is disagreement with these measures, it must be expressed when they are discussed in the Kern and in the Council of Ministers, rather than deciding on measures and coming to say that they are not good. People have understood this play and we must stop with this hypocrisy. Moreover, this is also something classic for Vivaldi. When one takes a measure, either it is next to the plate, or it is completely insufficient, or it is disconnected from the realities of the field and the demands that are made. This agreement that you have made, Madam Minister, is officially denied by two unions. For the other two, whose leaders have accepted the agreement, we must go to the base, which is furious. People began to disaffiliate from the unions that gave their approval for this agreement. In any case, the vast majority of police officers are unhappy, because what you propose to them is derisory. I call on all the other members of the majority who have spoken here against this agreement to express it within the government, to go further and to defend the demand for more resources for the police. As I said, this Vivaldi always makes deals that are half-tone. We've seen him lately with energy. People have sick gas bills in the winter, and Vivaldi decides to reduce the VAT on electricity bills in the spring! This is the whole logic of Vivaldi's policy. It is expressed in a rather spectacular way in the agreement that you are presenting to us here, Madam Minister. I would like to touch a word for the MR, who presents himself here as the defender of the valorization of the police. I recall that the MR is in the government, but he was also in the previous government. The latter has eliminated the investigation costs in the criminal investigation police, which means that today the police are less interested in this post. This created a shortage of judicial police officers, due to the abolition of these investigative costs. It's the equivalent of about 200 euros. When we say today that we defend the salaries and increases of the police officers when we have reduced the purchasing power of the police officers in the previous government, that is not consistent. We must not forget this and change our speech because the police are showing up to defend their interests. There is a need for some consistency and honesty in this regard. Finally, as far as the Conference of Mayors is concerned, I return to your statement as it stands: it is your position and I do not question it. However, Olivier Deleuze, Mayor of Watermael-Boitsfort, said: "We were absolutely not involved in the discussions at any time." The question I asked you isn't from anywhere. They're the mayors who talk about it. If that is not true, we must remind him. Minister, are you going to review this agreement to meet the needs of police officers who have been claiming it for months? Indeed, the agreement you are presenting here - in any case, the one you presented to the police - is far from meeting these needs. It's completely insufficient. That is why there is notice of strike. I advise you to avoid traffic and strike problems in the future, just by doing what is necessary to meet the needs of the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u34	This will enable us to conclude the debate for today, although I am convinced that this issue will be regularly discussed in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u35	Madam Minister, according to articles in the media, the P Committee would strongly criticise the expensive ANPR camera shield along our motorways following the terrorist attacks in Paris and Brussels. The shield is designed to read and recognize number plates in a database with number plates. The investment in the system would have cost about 40 million euros and would have had to sound the alarm if a suspicious or sealed vehicle drives past a camera, after which the police could intercept the car. According to the press, the report of the P Committee would conclude that the camera shield works far less decisively than the theory suggests. Apparently, when the camera shield detects a license plate that's signed to the police as stolen, often nothing would happen. The response by the police is very different. In the worst case scenario, the interception opportunity can be reduced to zero, the inspection service considers. Can you confirm the existence of that report? When will you be able to submit this report to the committee? Is it true that the cameras sound false alarms in 80 % of the cases? What's the reason for this? What actions do you plan to find a solution for this? Is it true that there is a shortage of staff in the provincial control rooms and in the field shifts? How many personnel per province in these emergency rooms are involved with an ANPR shield? Is it true that there is rarely any capacity to actually go after a suspicious car? Which cities in Belgium have such a camera shield and how many cameras are active? In how many cases since the placement of this shield has there been an alarm? In how many cases was it a false alarm? How many cases has a vehicle or person been intercepted? What kind of crime has been tracked down with a shield like that? How many arrests did that lead to?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u36	Mr President, I am not going to repeat the contextualization because you have already exposed it widely. I would just like to point out that this report was presented a few weeks ago in the follow-up committee of Committee P. Following this report, I myself have some questions following the discussions we had. Madam Minister, in view of these various problems of the cost of EUR 40 million that the ANPR system represents and of the many privacy issues that it raises, allow me to be questioned. Have you read the report of Committee P and its recommendations? What follow-up do you intend to do? Will measures be implemented to implement some of these recommendations? In terms of the budget, can you take stock of the expenditure incurred at the federal level to deploy this system? With regard to the shortage of staff pointed out in the report, are you planning budgets for the recruitment of police officers in the short and long term? Given the current ineffectiveness of the system, is the principle of proportionality required in relation to intrusion into the privacy of our citizens respected? The report points to procedures for the crime of flight as an area to be improved with foreign police. What do you intend to do about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u37	Mr President, Madam Minister, in its last report, Committee P points to the ineffectiveness of ANPR cameras placed along motorways following the attacks in Paris and Brussels. These are "intelligent" cameras in principle, capable of recognizing license plates and connecting them to a database. This scheme cost EUR 40 million and is supposed to allow for the tracing of wanted vehicles. According to Committee P, these cameras do not meet the objective. In 80% of cases, they send false alerts. The shortage of staff in the control rooms and police teams in the field also means that in many cases there is no response to an alert. Often, the P Committee points out, the chances of calling a vehicle are zero: 40 million euros for zero luck! Minister, are you questioning the device that seems not to work, even from a technical point of view? Will you continue to install new cameras of this type? How do we explain that ANPR cameras give "false positives" in 80% of cases? Do you confirm the cost of EUR 40 million of ANPR cameras? Are there any other recurring costs? What is the status of the staff of the control rooms and field teams in charge of intercepting vehicles?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u38	Madam Secretary, as governor, I was able to experience the development of the ANPR networks, from the local to the provincial level and from the provincial to the federal level. After the fantastic results we have recorded in recent years, everyone is now convinced of the need for them, not least the mayors. I'll go over the report briefly. The Committee P points out that many of the reported problems will be solved by themselves in the AMS roll-out in the second phase of the ANPR project. In any event, the P Committee believes that its recommendations could be useful in providing zero measurement in the further phased roll-out of the ANPR project. The P Committee recommends, inter alia, the development of an ANPR exploitation policy to increase the reliability of hits, to develop an operational vision regarding the deployment or interception of defined hits in real time and based on analyses of previous hits, and to improve information-driven operation. I can only endorse that. Will you take into account the recommendations of the P Committee in the further roll-out of the ANPR camera project and AMS? You will see the possibility of making improvements in the short term. If so, which one? The report states that the conclusion of formal agreements on hit handling with foreign police services would be an improvement. Are you prepared to discuss this with your European and international colleagues?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u39	Madam Minister, I am also a member of the P Committee and was at the meeting when the P Committee presented the report. I also said at the time that it was a pity that the audit was limited to the 70 cameras currently installed mainly at the border crossing points. The analysis is very simple for those who have read the report: it is mainly a technical defect of the current system. 80 % is not readable, which simply has to do with the quality of the cameras and their software. Mr Briers rightly pointed out that, when the second phase is rolled out, it is necessary to ensure that the cameras, the software and the treatment of the images are of a much higher quality. Are there SLAs or technical requirements in the specifications? Have the federal services noticed that we will get the right quality, so that we can work with the right data of high quality?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u40	Mr President, I was very interested to hear the report by the P. Depoostere Committee, and I was surprised that you asked me to release it. After all, the P Committee reports to Parliament. After all, you'll get that report before I see it. I will outline the context of the report in order to avoid misunderstandings. Firstly, the P Committee's report on an investigation covering the period from 29 May 2020 to 29 June 2020. In the meantime, we are a year and a half further and we have continued to work on the ANPR project. So we have to take into account the evolutions since then. When it was set up after the terrorist attacks, the objective of the ANPR project was twofold. Firstly, it would allow the integrated police to act accurately in real time. Secondly, the technology used through delayed processing facilitates faster and better detection on the basis of the data collected. The first phase of the ANPR project aimed to operationalise a network of 172 cameras placed at border posts on motorways, airports, the port of Antwerp and on regional roads. All these cameras were connected to a national shield then called Strix, from which the images reach the provincial control rooms of the federal police. The P Committee's investigation covers only this first phase and is therefore limited to a limited part of the entire complex ANPR project, i.e. the real-time processing of registration plate images. It seems to me important to make this distinction because the P Committee's investigation does not call into question the absolute added value that the ANPR network also presents for more reactive use in police investigations. Today, more than 14,000 users have access to the national ANPR management system. All of these users may request, on a delayed basis, the results of ANPR cameras for targeted use in an ongoing investigation. These applications in delayed time fully achieve the predefined objective. For example, important findings were made in the Sky ECC survey using ANPR camera data. In addition, the system shows daily added value in traffic control using radar sections. The second phase was launched at the beginning of 2021. This implies, among other things, gradually linking all cameras to a national server, the so-called AMS server. Currently there are 172 cameras active on the national borders and 1,535 other cameras located mainly in Flanders and Brussels, linked to the central ANPR management system. In addition, certain cameras are owned by local and regional authorities, which are not or are not yet linked to the central AMS system. The recommendations of the P Committee, which, as I said, carried out research for the period from 29 May to 29 June 2020, also concern intervention policy. When activating the 172 cameras on the national ANPR network in 2017, a working group, composed of representatives of the judiciary and police, also focused on action and intervention policies. It is a strategy to determine how and to which hits to respond immediately and which hits could be delayed. Linking 1,535 cameras to the new national AMS service system has led to a huge increase in the number of hits since then, around 10 million per lecture and per year. The increase calls for further refinement of action and intervention policies. The recommendations of the P Committee will, of course, be taken into account, as you asked, Mr Briers. We will, of course, work on refining the ANPR further. We also have to be honest in this: if a lot of cameras are connected and an incredible number of hits are given, especially now that there is an expansion of 3,500 extra cameras planned and it is an illusion to expect that the police can process all these hits simultaneously and immediately, and that the units on the site can always immediately follow suit. I never meant to. It is physically impossible and, of course, its follow-up must also be appropriate to the needs. That is why it is so important to refine intervention policy and to define a strategy. At the time when a closed vehicle passes through an ANPR camera of the relevant arrondissement, the hit enters the relevant provincial control centre in real time: the communication and information centres or so-called CICs. In order to manage these new workstations and the CICs, 195 full-time equivalents are provided. Now 116 of the 195 places have been filled in and of course we are working on the full details. There are no national figures on the number of effective hits, but I will have them checked to see if this is possible and desirable in the future. As regards the international handling of the ANPR hits, a distinction should be made between the exchange of hits on the one hand and their dispatching on the other. For the exchange of hits, specific procedures already exist at European level on ANPR hits on stolen vehicles, or vehicles subject to alert in the Schengen Information System. If a so-called hit is detected, the country on whose territory the hit took place should inform the country issuing the alert of its circumstances. This is the case both for hits where the measure requested in the alert could be implemented and for hits where the requested measure could not be implemented by the country where the hit took place for any reason. Similar procedures will be provided for the hits on the reference data that Belgian and Dutch police will transmit to each other in the future, under Article 13 of the new Benelux Treaty on police cooperation of 23 July 2018, which will enter into force later this year. Negotiations on the implementing agreement setting out these procedures are under way. However, the existing procedures for the exchange of hits are not sufficient to allow for real-time intervention by a foreign police service if a hit occurs on a camera at the border heading abroad. The question of how best to organise the dispatch of such hits is the subject of discussions between the integrated police and its Dutch and French counterparts in the framework of the Inspect project, subsidized by the European Commission through the European Internal Security Fund. In my view, it would be useful if the agreements reached on this subject with our neighbouring countries were included in a protocol. As the P Committee pointed out in the report, police forces from our neighbouring countries are not always asking for real-time reports from ANPR hits from Belgium. They, too, have a limited capacity to perform interventions. We must therefore agree with our neighbouring countries on which criteria a hit must meet before it is passed on in real time for follow-up. The operational added value of that transaction should also be taken into account. For example, it does not make much sense for the Belgian police to systematically dispat all hits on stolen vehicles, observed on a camera at the border to abroad, to the neighbouring country in question if that country itself has ANPR cameras and feeds on reference data from the Schengen Information System. After all, all vehicles stolen in Belgium are automatically included in the system and should therefore also produce a hit on the ANPR cameras of that neighbouring country. For the launch of the ANPR project, the previous government had released a Terro budget, for the period 2016-2019, of interdepartmental provisions amounting to 32 million euros. This budget included the development of a central management system budgeted at the level of €3 million. The remaining 29 million were earmarked for the purchase and installation of centrally managed cameras. Since 2020, a recurring annual cost of $2.5 million has been foreseen for further deployment and maintenance. As set out in the Police Service Act, such treatment is authorized for administrative and judicial police purposes. Furthermore, the legislator has taken data protection principles into account by providing, inter alia, for an impact assessment to be carried out at the level of privacy protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u41	Madam Minister, I do not think anyone wants to question the ANPR network, it is a very good system. We also see that more and more local police zones are starting to invest in such smart cameras, just because they are achieving good results. The same should be done at federal level. The system seems to be a victim of its own success. Because if you want to connect more cameras to a 'central management system' in a second phase, as you call it, this will obviously lead to more interventions and more staff is needed, not only in those provincial emergency rooms, but also in the field. I note that they want to do something about this in order to remedy it in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u42	Minister, thank you for the information you have been able to provide to my various questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u43	Madam Minister, you told us that this report was a year and a half ago. Finally, that he was initiated a year and a half ago. June 2021 was seven months ago. Questions arise in relation to the figures given in the report - for example, the rate of 80 per cent. You say the situation has improved. What is this rate today? The analysis that was done gave 80% of the errors. Now, after the improvement, what about it? Is there a post-report evaluation - from the end of the report, from June to the present? Do we have an evaluation of this system? It is in fact called into question here in its effectiveness, and also in relation to its cost, by the report of Committee P. It is clear that this investment is really a failure. We cannot accept that EUR 40 million should be spent on something that is not working. You tell us that the situation has improved. It would be nice to compare the figures that are presented in the report with the figures of your department. In this context, I will ask you a written question to have the exact figures at this level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u44	Minister, the railway police play a crucial role in the safety of passengers and the entire rail network in our country. However, according to information from me, the office made available to the railway police at the station of Tournai would only rarely be used. It is an important station in my region and also has the peculiarity of being located not far from the French border, which is also on a busy line. Minister, could you let us know how often this office was used in 2021 and 2020? What is the planned use for 2022 as well as your intentions regarding the railway police at the station of Tournai and, more broadly, in Picardy Wallonia? Moreover, the station in Tournai sees trains commuted daily between France and Belgium, what measures are in place or to come in terms of cross-border police cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u45	Dear colleague, the premises in Tournai train station are not operationally suitable for police services when people are intercepted. This space is located on the first floor behind glass doors adjacent to SNCB's administrative offices. It is sometimes used in Medusa-type police actions for administrative support. In concrete terms, it is not possible to inventory the number of times this space has been used as each Southern Region SPC patroller can, during his service, take possession of this space. The issue of rail safety is closely monitored by all partners. The station of Tournai is one of the hot spots monitored in Hainaut and the railway police continue their patrols throughout the province of Hainaut. With regard to international cooperation, a number of operational agreements have been concluded between the partners concerned and Belgian-Belgian police actions have been prepared. The coordination of operations is carried out by the Administrative Coordinator Director of Hainaut in collaboration with the Directorate of Administrative Police Operations. Several specific and targeted actions were organised in June and July 2021 with the collaboration of various federal police departments, including the SPC, the intervention force and the Coordination and Support Directorate. The SPC informed me that neither its police team nor SNCB had informed him of any specific incidents concerning the transit by train of persons residing illegally between France and Belgium. Nevertheless, during 2021, gatherings of people in transit on the territory, as well as the presence of homeless individuals, created a growing sense of insecurity for the users of the Tournai railway station. These problems of insecurity have been partially solved due to major work at the station, which has made it impossible to access the infrastructure usually used by these groups for several months. With the completion of the work, the local and federal police services intend to ensure a visible and preventive police presence on this field of action.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u46	Minister, thank you for your interesting answers. You know that my fellow mayor of Tournai, Paul-Olivier Delannois, is very attentive to the security in his territory and to the station of Tournai in particular. You rightly and wisely stress the efforts that are being made and the results that have been achieved. But, you also point out, these results are partly obtained because of the work done on the Tournai-Mouscron line, which has made it more difficult for a number of people to access the facilities of the Tournai station. I note, Madam Minister, that you have the determination and the will to continue to investigate this matter so that safety at Tournai station can be ensured. I welcome the agreements that have already been reached with our French partners in this area. I will allow myself to come back to you with a written question for more details on these agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u47	Madam Minister, I have converted my original oral question into an interplay, because I think that the issue at issue is too important. You will agree with me that it is not enough to recruit enough every year, the recruitment must also meet a certain quality level. Recently, the procedure for selection and recruitment was changed. It was shortened in time and that is a good thing, but information that reaches me from the field shows that there is a real risk of lowering the quality level of new recruits. The classic procedure consisted of a cognitive test, which measured both language skills and IQ, including a 10-minute film and answered questions about it. In addition, there was an extensive sports test with a functional course. Then a psychological test followed, with a number of tests on PC, a group test, a conversation with a member of the department selection. Finally, the candidate for a commission appeared in which, in addition to the chairman of the selection service, one member of the federal and one member of the local police were sitting. That discussion then dealt with the motivation, the expectations of the candidate and the oral knowledge of the police and of the organisation. The file then ended up with the Deliberation Committee, which took the final decision. After the medical examination, the candidate was given access to the training or not. Your predecessor, Mr Jambon, has already mentioned this, and his Channel Plan has set the bar a lot lower. Today, the Deliberation Committee often consists of only one person instead of three. Every effort was made to complete the organized training. Quantity is more important than quality. Madam Minister, is it true that the examiners are only allowed to assess the summary of the text on the film fragment on content and not on knowledge and use of correct spelling? The committee, which gave the people of the field some insight into the candidate, was abolished, according to the official version, because that test was too time-consuming. Is it true that, in practice, when the Deliberation Commission is set up, it consists of only one member, in particular one from the Federal Police Recruitment Service? What will you do to ensure the objectivity of the Deliberation Committee? Will you ensure that it is composed of at least several members? Should the Deliberation Committee state in detail why it deviates from the opinion of the Selection Board? Why is that, or why not? Should there not be minimum requirements for the score of points by the selection committee, after which it will only be possible to divide them? The new procedure still provides for a test at a committee at the end of the training course, when the candidates are almost finished with their annual training and have to present themselves in a zone or a federal service. To what extent have candidates been rejected in the past at that time? Are those significant numbers on an annual basis? I have put forward a number of numerical questions. For me, you do not have to give a comprehensive list of this. If I can get the figures in writing, that's fine with me. I asked, among other things, about the number of candidates in recent years and to what extent they have succeeded in the various tests. I would like to hear orally whether a candidate can be asked for his medical status, more specifically the vaccination status in these corona times. Can that be asked, or does the medical secret also apply there? Finally, during their candidacy, can candidates carry external signs of religion, philosophy or ideological belief?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u48	Mr Depoostere, you speak of a real danger of a reduction in quality. You see a doom future, I'd say. There is absolutely no intention to reduce quality. In the previous selection procedure, the mother tongue was no longer evaluated using a video. The language test consists of an evaluation in four areas: grammar, vocabulary and reading and listening skills. The test shall be carried out digitally and shall be evaluated automatically in order to provide guarantees of objectivity. This remains the basis for the current language tests. The bar for language tests is differentiated on the basis of the intended level of employment, but the assessment is therefore not affected. In the new procedure, the Deliberation Committee shall consist of the Director-General of the General Executive Board of the Financial Management and Information of the Federal Police, or the staff member designated. In addition, there is a representative of the federal police and a representative of the Permanent Commission of Local Police. In the new selection procedure, after the generic selection tests and on the basis of the results of the different selection tests, the Deliberation Commission shall determine whether or not the candidate meets the intended and expected competence profile. The laureates are then placed in a recruitment reserve for two years, pending recruitment by a police zone or a federal police service. That part is a specific innovation of the new selection procedure aiming at an optimal match between the profile of the candidate and the unit of appointment. The police area concerned or the unit of the federal police shall appoint the chairman and the two assessors of that committee and shall vouch for its organisation. The units themselves shall assess whether the candidate is fit to start the training as a basic framework and to be recruited after the training in the unit for which the commission in question recruits. Candidates selected by a unit at that time shall receive a licence giving access to the training. They must then also succeed in training and complete their internship period in the unit of destination, of course to the satisfaction of that unit. In the classical selection procedure, the selection committee did not comment on whether or not the candidate is fit to become a police officer. It was examined whether the candidate has the necessary competences and values such as customer orientation, integrity, motivation to move forward. Each competence is evaluated several times in different trials. In the new procedure, both the deliberation committee and the selection committee are organised before a candidate can pass on to the training. According to the old procedure, the Deliberation Committee rejected 1,209 of the 2,602 candidates in 2019. In 2020, 777 of the 1,755 were candidates and 955 of the 2,470 were candidates in 2021. The relationship has therefore remained the same, even after the new procedures. In 2019, 7,801 candidate inspectors registered for the selection. In 2020 and 2021 it was 8.724 and 8.741 respectively. In 2019 3.350 of the 3,629 participants in the cognitive trial succeeded. In 2020, 3,206 out of 3,589 participants and 3,070 out of 3,480 participants in 2021. As you can see, that relationship remains the same. We cannot therefore talk about a reduction in quality. I will also give you the numbers of laureates from the physical and psychological tests in writing. Saves us time. There's no link between the selection committee and the deliberation committee. There are therefore no figures which compare the two committees. The selection committees under the new procedure will only be organised for the first time in spring 2022. It is therefore not possible to say at the moment how many candidates do not succeed, nor how many lose after the training or after the successful completion of the internship period. The applicant may register, but may not participate in the first selection test as long as he or she does not meet all the conditions for recruitment, with the exception of the driving licence B, which is only necessary for admission to the actual training. Candidates cannot be asked about their medical status and therefore cannot be asked about vaccination status. The questions asked concern only the potential and competences of the candidates to become a police officer. There are no particular restrictions on outward signs of religion, philosophy or ideological belief at the time of candidacy, unless those signs would hinder the proper conduct of selection. The evaluations themselves focus mainly on the competences, not on the individual and the individual expression and appearance, belief or religion. Diversity is important. The police must reflect society. The standards of impartiality are legally established for all police officers and are thus applied in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u49	I shall, of course, look at the figures. Our concern is the same: our police force must be formed in a qualitative way. The selection procedure is, of course, a very important tool. What you're telling me here is quite different from the testimony of the people on the premises. I am very concerned about that. You can write out nice procedures, but if they are not filled in on site or otherwise, so that there is a risk of loss of quality, there is a problem. The legislation on the selection procedure should be reviewed. A number of legislative proposals have already been discussed in our committee. They will probably be discussed in depth in the future, including Mr Moyaers' bill. I have tabled a motion for a recommendation because I am convinced that we need to emphasise this and because I want to draw the attention of all the members of the Chamber of Representatives to this very important pillar of our society. If we want a safe society, then we can only achieve it with a well-equipped police force whose quality is very high. That is why, in my motion, I ask, among other things, that, in consultation with the police unions, the federal police and the VCLP, the necessary measures be taken to monitor the objectivity and quality of the recruitment procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u50	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Ortwin Depoostere and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Ortwin Depoostere and the response of the Minister for the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - whereas the procedure for selecting and recruiting the police has recently been modified and shortened in time; - whereas information from the field shows that there is a real danger of lowering the quality of the new recruits; - whereas in the previous procedure a candidate always appeared before a committee in which, in addition to the chairman of the selection service, one member of the federal and one member of the local police; - having regard to the fact that, on the basis of this discussion, which should, inter alia, evaluate the motivation and expectations of the candidate, it should also be possible to give an objective picture of the oral knowledge of the police and the organisation; - knowing that the purpose of the evaluation of this candidate dossier is a final decision to obtain admission to training as a candidate after a medical examination; - whereas testimonies from the field show that today the Deliberation Committee consists of only one person instead of three; - whereas the aim is to organise police training as efficiently and effectively as possible; - having regard to the fact that, although the need for maximum completion of these training courses must always put the quality of a candidate police officer first on quantity; - having regard to the fact that where a deliberation body consists of only one person, there is a risk of subjectivity in the assessment of a candidate, - having regard to the fact that in the past this deliberation organ always consisted of at least three electrodes; - whereas a candidate undergoing training as a police officer carries out a task of particular responsibility and is a representative of the authority of a government; - considering that investment in staff should always be effective and efficient and that the public authorities benefit from the fact that candidates who start police training can also complete them and conclude them in a positive way; asks the government - to take the necessary measures, in consultation with the police unions, the Federal Police Executive and the Permanent Local Police Commission, to ensure the objectivity and quality of the recruitment procedure of candidate police officers; - give the necessary instructions and take initiatives to ensure that the assessment or deliberation of candidate police officers is carried out before the candidate starts training, through a deliberation committee; - that, in addition to a representative of the recruitment/HR department of the federal police, at least two other expert assessors should be seated in that deliberation committee; - to ensure that a representative of the Local Police will always be present at a minimum, to be appointed from candidates nominated by the Standing Committee on Local Police from police officers who can volunteer for this purpose, when they have the skills and professional experience required; - to ensure that any assessment by the Deliberation Committee on a candidate to be deliberated is always peer-reviewed and by consensus within the scope of this Deliberation Committee; - as a condition for deliberation by the committee that any decision to deliberate a candidate who, on the basis of the total of the mandatory parts or one of the components, has not achieved sufficient points, is always fully justified and reasoned in the applicant's file; - to establish an objective procedure whereby'minimum' standards are laid down, in particular to determine a minimum score to be achieved which a candidate must obtain on the mandatory components before being eligible for deliberation.' A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Ortwin Depoortere and reads as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu l'interpellation de M. Ortwin Depootere and the response of the Minister of the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, Whereas the procedure for the selection and recruitment of the police has recently been modified and shortened; - Whereas information from field actors shows that the risk of lowering the quality level of new recruits is real; Whereas, under the procedure previously laid down, any candidate would always appear before a commission composed not only of the chairman of the department responsible for selection, but also of a member of the federal police and a member of the local police; - in view of the fact that, on the basis of an interview, it is necessary to assess the motivation and expectations of the candidate, inter alia, but also to draw up an objective picture of his or her knowledge, expressed orally, of the police and the organisation; - having regard to the fact that the purpose of the assessment of the application dossier is to reach a final decision, so as to allow the applicant, after medical examination, access to the training; - Whereas it is apparent from the evidence gathered from field actors that the Committee on Deliberation is currently composed of only one member instead of three; Whereas it is necessary to organise police officer training as efficiently and effectively as possible; - Whereas, despite the need to optimise such training, the quality of police candidates must take precedence over the quantity; - in view of the fact that, since a deliberative body is composed of only one person, the risk of subjectivity on the assessment of the candidate is real; - in view of the fact that, in the past, this deliberative body was still composed of at least three assessors; - Whereas a candidate who is trained as a police officer carries out a mission with a particularly important responsibility and is a representative of the public authority; Whereas the investment in staff must always be effective and effective and it is in the interest of the State that candidates who undertake police training can also complete and complete it successfully; asks the government - to take the necessary measures, in consultation with the police unions, the Federal Police Directorate and the Standing Committee on Local Police, to ensure the objectivity and quality of the procedure for the recruitment of police candidates; - give the necessary instructions and take initiatives to ensure that the assessment or deliberation of police candidates takes place within the framework of a deliberative commission, prior to the start of the training; - that this deliberation commission be composed not only of a representative of the Federal Police Recruitment/HR Service, but also of at least two other expert assessors; - to guarantee the presence among these assessors of at least one representative of the local police, to be nominated from among candidates proposed by the Standing Committee of the Local Police, on the understanding that these police officers may apply voluntarily for this purpose if they possess the necessary professional competence and experience; - to ensure that any assessment to which a candidate is submitted always takes place in collegiality and is the subject of a consensus within the committee of deliberation; - to impose as a condition of deliberation by the Commission that each decision on the deliberation of a candidate who has not obtained sufficient marks for the total amount of the items imposed or for any of those elements must always be duly substantiated and described in the dossier of the person concerned; - to establish an objective procedure defining'minimum' standards, i.e. to set a minimum score to be obtained by the candidate for the items imposed before being eligible for deliberation." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Jan Briers. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Jan Briers. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u51	Mr President, may I come back to a previous item on the agenda. You said that I cannot release the report of the P Committee, but those reports are available on the website.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u52	I didn't know that. Thank you for the additional information.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u53	Minister, the fifth evaluation cycle of the Group of States against Corruption (GRECO) under the Council of Europe focuses on "Prevention of corruption and promotion of integrity in central governments (high executive and law enforcement functions). It follows on from the evaluation report published in January 2020, which addressed twenty-two recommendations to the Belgian authorities and examines their implementation or non-implementation, as this is what should be discussed. Indeed, of these 22 recommendations, only two have been satisfactorily implemented according to GRECO, two have been partially implemented and 18 have not been implemented and have remained at the stage of the declaration of intent or preliminary consultations. GRECO therefore invites the head of the Belgian delegation to submit further information on the implementation of the recommendations by 30 June 2023. Madam Minister, how is it that year after year because this is not GRECO's first report, the GRECO recommendations for Belgium remain unanswered? Few concrete measures have been taken with regard to senior executive officials. For example, there is a lack of a code of ethics for ministers and strategic members of cabinets with oversight and sanctions if necessary. Are you going to put them in place? How many of the remaining 20 GRECO recommendations does the government intend to implement under this legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u54	Mr President, I have read the compliance report well and I must say that the federal police have already made efforts, which is also recognised by GRECO. I understand that he hopes that the steps we have already taken on other recommendations will continue in order to achieve results on the ground. It is clear and obvious that we will be working on this in the weeks and months to come. For me, this work must relate to the competencies of the federal police. The Federal Police Integrity Service has been designated to follow up on the implementation of the police recommendations. Work will continue on all recommendations. The Integrity Policy Plan provides internal partners with the opportunity to form networks and then provide certain support in this framework. In addition, within the framework of the general statements for the police, the theme of integrity is and will be addressed. The aim is to bring together several partners to carry out an exercise to determine the contours of the police of the future. In this context, it may also be possible to provide support for actions that will be taken and linked to GRECO recommendations. The other recommendations of GRECO fall within the competence of different ministers. I must therefore confine myself to the recommendations of the interior and democratic renewal portfolios. With regard to the ethical code of ministers and the strategic members of their cabinet, the government is exploring the possibility of expanding this code. As for the instructions for contact with lobbyists, a passage from the government agreement relates to these instructions. If I am well informed, the evaluation of the lobbies register is under way in the House of Representatives. Depending on the evolution of the work carried out there, we will see how to move to a broader system for this register, which must also be the subject of a government decision. I can at least tell you that we will be working on it during the course of this year. This is what I am going to do with transparency legislation. A discussion is under way with the Commission d'accès aux documents administratifs. In order for information from law firms and strategic bodies to be within the scope of this legislation, a number of technical legal amendments must be made. For example, the concept of administrative authority needs to be redefined. Before this measure is implemented, an analysis of all the aspects involved must be carried out. After an initial analysis of the literature on this subject, it appears that there is no obvious solution. Perhaps one can draw on the legislation in force in Flanders and Brussels, which has a wider scope of application. In any event, expanding the scope of transparency requires consultation with the government. That is what we are working on today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic689x.u55	Minister, your answer concerns me because I asked clear questions. How many of GRECO's recommendations, of the twenty that are not implemented, does the government intend to implement under this legislature? So you didn't answer that question. You said that this was a split competence between different ministers, and that the question had to be asked by different ministers. There are difficulties in implementing things. I expected something else from you, as Minister of the Interior and Democratic Renewal. These are two competences directly related to the problem of the risk of corruption for executive bodies. You have responded to the federal police, but here, the bulk of the recommendations relate to the executive. In this regard, I do not have a satisfactory answer on your part, and no clear commitment to resolve these various recommendations, which are dead letter for the time being. I'm worried and I want to remind you that investigating judge Michel Claise repeated it several times. A few days ago, in the press, he said, while he was precisely consulted by GRECO as an expert, that "Belgium is a corrupt country and yet nobody reacts. Corruption in our country is at every level, even in the police. The political world is not spared." In relation to this distressing finding of Justice Claise, but above all of GRECO, there is no clear will to remedy these problems. I think it's serious.
