ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u1	Madam Minister, the negotiations with ENGIE were originally subject to a deadline, which is now likely to be exceeded. Then the question is how to proceed. If we can believe the press, things will happen. We had the debate a while ago on the famous letter from ENGIE with a number of questions. ENGIE sent that letter because it is clear that there are problems with the negotiations on that file. We have now learned that some of your coalition partners have different concerns in different areas. I saw, among other things, reactions from the MR and the PS, who have a very own position on, among other things, the cessation of negotiations and the imposition of a number of things. The big question is, where are you going with the whole file? Are the negotiations still going on? Who's in charge of the negotiations? Where's it all going? Is there no room to consider whether negotiations can be handled differently and whether the negotiating mandate can be extended? I am thinking of the issue of extending it for 10 or 20 years. I understand that CD&V has said very clearly in the newspaper that it is in favour of 20 years. Others have said that participation can be discussed. We have put that forward too. The big question is, where are you with that file now? Is the government considering adjusting the mandate? Is there any discussion within the government about how the negotiations should be conducted, or are you keeping the door locked with a strategy that may lead nowhere?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u2	I will skip my introduction, Madam Minister, because we discussed it yesterday. I would like to know something in the context of the discussions with ENGIE Electrabel on the possible extension of two nuclear power plants. The problem with these discussions is, of course, that they go rather secretly and that things are sometimes leaking into the press, including the famous letter. The leaked letter is not the problem for us, but we think it is a problem that it is all pieces of information and that the discussions do not take place in public. I would have liked to have heard from you clearly what the negotiating mandate is and what the conditions were agreed within the government on the possible nuclear renewal. So what is the framework for the negotiations? In the famous letter from ENGIE Electrabel, the company asked the government to become co-owner of the nuclear power plants and to pay part of the invoice for the nuclear waste. Do you confirm that these requirements fall outside the mandate and therefore actually go beyond its red lines? We have just had a discussion in which you said that, and I had interpreted that error wrongly: the Belgian government would not be the owner of nuclear power plants. However, what do you think of participation or co-ownership? That is the question of ENGIE Electrabel. Can you confirm that this will not be the case either, or is it still under discussion? Do you also confirm that there will be no negotiation of the nuclear waste bill? You have used the words "not the pleasures of private life and the cost of collectivity." You answered my question about your law on nuclear commissions last week. Finally, I would like to ask a question about a heated debate in the press. When will the negotiations be concluded and we will know whether or not the nuclear power stations will be renewed and what conditions will that be?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u3	I refer to my written question. I would like to hear the state of play and what the Minister can say about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u4	Madam Secretary, there has been a lot of work to be done in the negotiations with ENGIE Electrabel. At first it was said that it was not possible, then again the opposite was said and later it was a 'dead corpse'. A great deal of time has been lost before common sense has returned to negotiate with ENGIE Electrabel a possible extension of the lifetime of Objective 4 and Tihange 3. I am particularly concerned about these ongoing negotiations. A few weeks ago, we were all able to take note of the letter that ENGIE Electrabel delivered to the government. In the course of the debate in plenary, I found that not everyone has clearly interpreted this letter correctly. In the letter, ENGIE Electrabel asks very clearly to participate in the story of that lifetime extension, perhaps because one wants some guarantees because one had the impression that too often they were playing with their feet in relation to the possible lifetime extension. How far does this government want to go? What can these negotiations lead to? You have been given a certain mandate by the government. Is an extension of 20 years instead of 10 years negotiable? Is the government willing or not to participate? Another concern is that the finality of the negotiations would be postponed until September. It would be disastrous to lift this dossier about the holiday, because it is about precious time. The longer this decision is postponed, the more difficult it becomes. Maybe that's a strategy. I understand that Georges-Louis Bouchez has stated from your MR partner that the government will not wait so long and that an agreement will be reached within the month. What is the government's vision? Finally, the negotiations seem to have been very tough. I suspect there are some bottlenecks, as there is no breakthrough. I understand the secrecy of the negotiations, I understand that you cannot just throw everything out on the street, but as a Parliament we are entitled to clarity. After all, there are a lot of concerns: will the negotiations succeed or not? I would have liked you to give me an update.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u5	Madam Minister, on 18 March the government decided to take the necessary steps to extend the life of the two nuclear power plants. The negotiations with ENGIE, which you are conducting together with the Prime Minister, are still under way. In the meantime, we're at the beginning of June. Like my colleagues, I have questions about the state of the negotiations. I understand you can't give me any details, but there's a press release on this every now and then. I think it is important that we have the latest information here. The deadline agreed with the government at the beginning of June is apparently not being met either, because recently you said it will be before September. For us, it is important that a good agreement is reached, so if that deadline is postponed, that is not a problem for us. I do wonder whether the framework of the negotiations themselves, which was agreed by the government, is also being opened up. That has already been said. ENGIE itself asks to become co-owners. For us this is negotiable under certain conditions. Is that co-ownership on the table, too? Is the slope of an extension of not 10 years but 20 years on the table? That has already been suggested. Can you give me more information on this? What is the state of play in the discussions with the European Commission on the impact of the extension on the CRM? Should CRM legislation be amended? Can you give us a more detailed explanation? Almost two years ago, my resolution on the modulation of nuclear power plants was adopted in order to provide sufficient flexibility so that nuclear power plants cannot push out the production of renewable electricity. What's the status?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u6	Madam Secretary, I have a lot of questions, but I won't ask them. I only want to put them in place if we had access to the management meetings of ENGIE via streaming. I can only confirm what I said earlier: this must be done thoroughly and with discretion. I have just one question for you: is it true that you have very good cooperation with the Prime Minister on this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by expressing my confidence in the successful outcome of the negotiations. That, of course, implies an effort from everyone around the table. The government is making this effort within the set time frame. Apparently there was some commotion about September. The envisaged timing remains that we will continue to work, before or around the summer, within the mandate given to us by the government. There is no question of a delay to a later date. That is only natural, because we are in an unseen energy crisis that no one has predicted and which exposes our dependence on fossil fuels and uranium from Russia, at a time when France is experiencing its nuclear horror moment with the nuclear capacity in France which is more than 50% unavailable, among other things because of corrosion, which now makes France historically dependent on us for its own security of supply. Just in view of the security of our security of supply and our dependence on abroad, we took the decision we made on 18 March 2022, which is a significant acceleration in terms of renewable energy and the launch of talks to extend the lifetime of two gigawatts of nuclear energy by 10 years. That decision dates back to 18 March 2022, but I repeat that the timing remains the same. The talks with ENGIE on the modalities of this 10-year extension are ongoing and are conducted by the Prime Minister and myself, within the terms of reference agreed by the government. I repeat, to the extent necessary, that the government negotiates with one joint vote. Those negotiations take place around the table, not in TV or radio studios or newspapers. It's always interesting to read what appears in it. The negotiations take place around the table, are conducted by the Prime Minister and myself and are spoken with one voice. The mandate, which Mrs Buyst asked for, means that the nuclear operator and the contributing company are and will remain responsible for decommissioning and irradiated fuel and all associated costs for all seven nuclear reactors, and that the Belgian authorities will not be an operator. That is the mandate within which we are working. Of course, I understand more than the many questions and also the impatience. I have been a Member of Parliament myself, and I am sure from that capacity that I took the same attitude as you, regardless of whether I was a member of the majority or of the opposition. Thinking of my previous position, I understand the frustration when you hear that I can now only point to the need for discretion. The necessary discretion must be demonstrated in order not to hypothesize the positive outcome. At the final moment, of course, Parliament will have to be held accountable. In this respect, the past, with previous negotiations, has also sometimes failed, because there was no access to Parliament at the time. The chords that were concluded were then only allowed to be looked into in a private room with a chaperone. The documents were highly conventional and hardly accessible to Members of Parliament. I certainly won't go down that road. I cannot say much to you now because the negotiations are still ongoing, but once the negotiations are concluded, I will provide full transparency. I don't mean to work with contracts that aren't consultable. That makes sense, because today I myself am faced with existing contracts that were not sufficiently known at the time they were concluded. Only now do I learn the ins and outs. As an example, I would like to mention taxing the excess profits. We are faced with agreements which state that the excess profits must not be affected. The current negotiations must ensure that we have 2 gigawatts of nuclear capacity available over the next 10 years, allowing us to use accelerated electrification and increase our independence, but without the taxpayer getting the waste bill passed on. I can only respond to the criticisms that are sometimes voiced both inside and outside Parliament with the results. Look at the results in other files, for example the investment mechanism for security of supply, approved without conditions by the European Commission within less than a year. The energy standard was realized after 10 years of pastry on 1 January 2022. The draft law on nuclear commissions will be voted on before the recess. The acceleration of renewable energy has been deployed. It is of the same nature that we are working hard on the route for the availability of 2 gigawatt nuclear capacity, in order to take the necessary steps in this respect. The conversations are conducted in a correct and serious manner. As I have already said, one vote is being negotiated. I have faith in the successful outcome of the negotiations. There were also a number of punctual questions from Mrs Dierick. I will first answer the question about the CRM. We are indeed discussing the CRM with the European Commission. Discussions are currently taking place mainly at the technical level and in the same way as we have dealt with the CRM dossier the first time, in order to evacuate as many points as possible. The talks are going very well, very prosperous and constructive. The European Commission, of course, also has its own RePowerEU communication. It also understands that the war requires Member States to take other decisions. However, we expect that it will only be able to take a formal decision, which has been taken by the College, once there is clarity about the LTO. The conversations do, however. So we are actually working in parallel. A number of issues need to be clarified, as with the CRM dossier. However, the formal stamp of the European Commission will come. Well, that's not so weird in itself. Remember that when the first CRM was approved, the European Commission also informed us that it could only take a formal decision at the time of the availability of Elijah's new adequacy study. We continued to work at that time, so that the European Commission could make its decision relatively soon after the study was completed. In this file, we do the same. So there are talks going on, and as soon as the negotiations are complete, a decision can follow. As far as modulation is concerned, Belgian nuclear power stations are not designed with so-called grey control rods. It is found in the French nuclear power stations and they allow great modulation. So the Belgian nuclear power stations can never match the modulation of the French. Hopefully they will be able to match their availability, and not unavailable, as in France today. Nevertheless, Electrabel has for several years limited modulation on all nuclear units and on Objective 4 and Tihange 3 less limited modulation. Especially at the end of the cycle, this possibility is extremely limited. This question is therefore not discussed during the negotiations. There is no point in that either, given the technical characteristics of the Belgian nuclear power stations. It is also a file between the core operator and the FANC itself. In the agreement of 18 March, however, it was agreed that the extension of Objectives 4 and 3 should be combined with the development of sufficient flexibility in our energy system so that nuclear power stations cannot push renewable electricity production out of the market. That is currently being worked on.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u8	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I have a number of comments to make. First of all, if you're talking about secret contracts, it's only about Tihange 1's contract that was concluded by all your coalition partners. They were the only ones in the Di Rupo government when that contract was concluded. Secondly, you're getting a bunch of criticism from your own government. There is a party here that suspects you of leaking the letter from ENGIE yourself into the press. I hear a party saying we should go for a 20-year extension. There are other parties who openly say that participation should be possible. So it looks very much like only you and the Prime Minister want to stick to that negotiating mandate. We will then, of course, be somewhat suspicious from the opposition. After all, if there is no more support and trust from your own government, what do you want the opposition to say? We fear that all this is going in the wrong direction and that we will not get there in this way. Perhaps the strategy is to negotiate for so long until Parliament closes its doors to the summer recess or something like that, so that Parliament's control is slightly less than usual. However, let us be honest, you have to move forward and take a number of steps. All your coalition partners seem to want to do that, but you don't. So I'm afraid we won't get there like this, but surprise me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u9	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You have repeated the mandate. It went pretty fast and I think every word there has its importance, so I will re-listen or re-read the answer. I'll take note of that. What ENGIE Electrabel wants when it asks the government to become co-owners, not an operator, as you have said once again, is of course not nationalisation but socialisation of costs, where profits are privatised and the costs are for society. I have the impression that you are opposed to this. We will keep a close eye on that aspect. For the rest, I take note of your promise of full transparency. You can't say much now. That is a pity, but we insist on transparency. I also take note of the fact that you are counting on the adoption of the draft law on nuclear facilities for the recess. I hope you keep your promises, and I have no doubt of that. We will monitor ENGIE's attempt to pass the costs on to society.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u10	I understand the discretion in the file. Yesterday, in the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety, you clearly outlined the starting points for your negotiations. Well, that did reassure me, didn't it? We look forward to the results. Indeed, you have already taken a lot of steps in the energy dossier. This is a delicate dossier, as you know, and some of my colleagues who have intervened here today did not seem to know that. However, I have always said that there is a cost attached to the extension of the two old nuclear power stations. Tough procedures are attached to that. We have an operator who had actually taken the step towards a future without nuclear power. None of that is obvious. Mr Wollants is dragging all kinds of things into the negotiations. That really has nothing to do with the political file in itself. Mr Van Lommel expresses his concern. I doubted for a moment whether he really meant it, but when he brought up Mr Bouchez' tweet, I knew that it was again part of a political game. It is a pity that an important dossier, namely our country's security of supply, always has to deal with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u11	Madam Secretary, when I hear you speaking, it seems as if there is nothing wrong with the air and everything is fine. But where there's smoke, there's fire. There are as many opinions as parties within your vivaldi government. You say you speak with a voice. Then you have to explain to me why there are coalition partners coming to say other things, such as the fact that it is not ten years from now, but twenty years from now. One wants to nationalize, the other doesn't want to nationalize. Then I wonder to what extent you are speaking with a voice. Then there are colleagues who claim that I am playing a political game here. I'm worried. It is your coalition partners who make it a game and have it recorded in the paper that it will not happen in September but next month. Who fights the game in the press? That's not me, colleague. Regarding the letter from ENGIE Electrabel, ENGIE Electrabel naturally expects a concrete commitment from the government. You've been playing with their feet for years. They've been asking for years to negotiate. You never went into it, and now you're at their door. They want it to be serious. That's why you got that letter. Madam Secretary, you have attached so many conditions to the extension of life, when you do not really have many conditions to set. After all, the policy of the last 20 years has put us against the wall with our backs. You have always fought the file in the past, since 2003, when you must now put it out in France with complete conviction. I have said before that I do not have that much faith in the negotiators who are now going to have to defend this dossier in Paris. Madam Secretary, as far as life expectancy is concerned, I think the money is there. ENGIE Electrabel has made so much profit in the past year that they can pay for the lifetime extension with two fingers in the nose. Do you know what an additional argument would be for them to cross the line? That is not speaking in ten years' time, as you insist, but in twenty years' time. I am sure you will be able to draw them across the line. Those twenty years will be needed, believe me, free. I can only hope that you will do what you promise and that the negotiations will not be postponed until September 2022, and that we will see white smoke from Paris before we go into recess. After all, the clock is ticking, it's already five after twelve. With every day that goes by, the chance that the lifetime extension can still be achieved decreases.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u12	Thank you, Madam Secretary. It was to be expected that we would not now get any details about the negotiations. You are right that they are best fed in all discretion. Nevertheless, I am disappointed with the timetable. An agreement was initially announced before the summer recess. When September was suddenly discussed, I was surprised and disappointed. We're running out of time. It seems dangerous to lift the case over the summer recess, with all the risks of leaks and indiscretions. There's pressure on the kettle. There is a need for a quick agreement. You say that you have every confidence in the successful conclusion of the negotiations. Let us be clear: they must end well, there is no alternative. The extension must be made. I certainly have faith in the government's negotiators, but I know that the length of negotiations is usually inversely proportional to the confidence in them. I therefore hope that we will soon be able to discuss the outcome of these negotiations in all transparency. Good luck.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u13	Mr President, I really do not understand. I remain convinced that the best result will be achieved when negotiations are held. I therefore sincerely do not understand the fact that there are party presidents who delineate negotiating strategies in the press and thus undermine our negotiating strategy. I have said it in plenary and I repeat it here, and I have also heard Mr Verduyckt say it: we knew that these negotiations would not be easy. Should we then immediately address requirements that ENGIE comes up with? I'm a little embarrassed by your perpetual insinuations, Mr. Wollants. I was almost surprised when I heard the N-VA last week arguing for public participation in the management of the old nuclear power stations, the N-VA, which generally wants to privatise everything in the world. Then who is the most dogmatic in the field of nuclear energy? Madam Minister, it is important to me that the negotiating mandate has been reaffirmed and that it is clear where we are going. It is logical that ENGIE wants to get the best of it, but that is what we want in the end. We want the invoice to remain affordable and we want to make energy production more sustainable. I therefore call for every opportunity to be given to the negotiations so that an agreement can be reached.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u14	Mr President, Madam Minister, first of all, excuse me for arriving at the time of the reply. Mr Leysen and I were in the Finance Committee. It is already a gymnastics to replace us so that quorums are reached. Having said that, I have not wasted my time, since I have just heard Mrs. Buyst. First, we are in democracy and everyone can express their views. Secondly, it is clear that we are not going to negotiate in the press or in Parliament. But there are some basic things to remember. Minister, I'm sorry, but I have to remind you. First, the government agreement of 30 September 2020 provided for two avenues. Not only did you not explore these tracks from the beginning, since one of them involved the extension of two nuclear reactors; but when it was really impossible to avoid seeing that prices were rising and security of supply was at risk, you began to concede the idea that you were going to explore the extension of two nuclear reactors. However, in December 2021, as we all remember, you still managed to postpone the concrete decision to extend two nuclear reactors to 18 March 2022. On March 19, 2022, you did not start negotiations immediately. Which means that today we are in a situation where we cannot fail to see that you are advancing so slowly that the natural idea comes that you could do it on purpose! You want to prove that your gas plants must be present in the energy mix to ensure our security of supply, rather than plunge into these obviously complex negotiations, and move forward. You should have done it a long time ago. You could at least have done that, which you have not done, since March 19, 2022. What do we see? You travel to the left and to the right, as well as the Prime Minister. When you're abroad, you obviously can't negotiate. These are truths, which have nothing to do with the negotiations, Mrs Buyst, but which we can all see. Now we are told that negotiations will end at the end of September. A controversy has arisen in the press, since you reply that we have read you badly and that something concrete will be presented at the end of June-early July. We are today, if I am not mistaken, on 15 June and we still do not see the shadow of a tangible achievement. I come to three important aspects. First of all, this is the agreement, which you think is full of, on the taxation of profits. I would point out to you that, in a negotiation, certain matters can be reopened, especially by mutual agreement between the parties. A contract can always evolve, if both parties agree. Of course, it's complicated and it doesn't end within a quarter of an hour. Obviously, if you're late, you can't play faster than the music! Secondly, the agreement of 18 March establishes very well that the State cannot be a nuclear operator. This function is exercised by the person responsible for dismantling. Some formulae exist, as EDF did with Engie, to participate in the development and operation of reactors, without the function of nuclear operator being fulfilled. Legally, you can't ignore it. I am thinking of stock companies, drawing rights and other avenues which should be explored and which are absolutely in line with the agreement of 18 March. As far as my President's statements are concerned, I would like to say strongly that Parliament is here to remind you of the respect that is due to the entire Belgian society, which is waiting for security of supply to be guaranteed, as well as the reduction of greenhouse gases, and for prices to be controlled, because we can do so at the start of a nuclear fleet which you have decided, fortunately - but we do not know when, just as we do not know under what conditions - to extend at least two reactors. However, we know that they will be insufficient, as my bill clearly points out. I would like us to have at least concrete things by the end of June which show that the extension of these two reactors, which is the basis of the Vivaldi government agreement, has concrete reasons for its existence and can ensure the security of supply that we all need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u15	I'm not entitled to a reply, but I just want to say one sentence. I'm a little sorry about the intent trials. I don't think that's the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u16	Mr President, I refer to the written version of my oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u17	Mr President, Mrs Dierick, each of the seven points in the resolution has already been partially or completely answered. As regards points 1, 2 and 3, an agreement was reached last summer by the four energy ministers to work on a simplified invoice as soon as possible. This agreement was not formally proposed in the Chamber, but I can confirm that the Walloon Region has already adapted its rules to align it with the federal framework. The Brussels Government also agreed to this. From Flanders there was consensus on the objective but not on the date. That is why we have not waited any longer at federal level and have taken a royal decision which entered into force on 1 January 2022. With regard to points 4 and 5, we have developed a Royal Decree of 9 December 2021 laying down the minimum requirements to be met by invoices and invoicing information for gas and electricity. This Royal Decree takes into account the principles of form, content and language mentioned above. With regard to points 6 and 7, this is continued through, for example, the training provided to energy consultants at the OMCWs by the CREG, e.g. to address the digital divide, or through discussions with energy sector actors on enhanced consumer protection. Then I come to your second question, about when that simplified invoice will fall on the bus. The Royal Decree of 9 December 2021 entered into force on 1 January 2022. In other words, the simplified invoice should in principle already be on the consumer's bus. In the light of the current energy crisis, a readable, simple and clear invoice is crucial for consumers. This dossier is a good example of the interaction with Parliament. Mrs Dierick, I would like to thank you and Parliament very much for that. I have already said in reply to previous questions that we should have some understanding for suppliers because there was no energy standard yet. All that had to be on that invoice at the end of the year. We had to show a little clemency if not all this happened directly on 1 January 2022. We're halfway through the year. So I'll put my ear to Febeg again, so that the members of Febeg can be asked which suppliers have effectively converted that invoice into practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u18	Thank you, Madam Minister, for the very detailed briefing and the work already done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u19	Mr President, Minister, on 17 May 2022 Fluxys announced that they will roll out the first cross-border hydrogen network in the border area together with North Sea Port and Gasunie. That would take about four years. At the same time, the Hydrogen Backbone exists. In what way will the government play a role in this? What's the status? What else is necessary to achieve results? For these two projects, can you indicate how they will be implemented, what coherence exists between them and what steps still need to be taken in the policy area?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u20	Mr President, the project announced by Fluxys on 17 May is part of his backbone project, which was notified to the European Commission in August under the IPK procedure for hydrogen. The project as a whole concerns the development of a freely accessible, non-discriminatory hydrogen transport infrastructure in Belgium, connected to the networks of our neighbouring countries. Our focus is on Germany. The development of this infrastructure will take place in stages. The first phase focuses on the development of the first pipelines within the main Belgian industrial clusters, which will then be connected in a second phase. This first phase is supported by Belgium's EUR 95 million relay plan for the development of at least 150 km pipelines by 2026 for hydrogen and CO2. The leadership announced by Fluxys on 17 May is therefore a joint project with North Sea Port and Gasunie, as it provides for an interconnection between Dutch and Belgian customers in the Ghent region. This initiative is part of the federal hydrogen strategy, which aims to establish a freely accessible hydrogen transport infrastructure in Belgium. Of course, further steps are needed in the policy area, which are currently being fully prepared. In particular, it is a legal and regulatory framework for the transport of hydrogen by pipeline. That law is necessary to provide the framework for the further development and management of the hydrogen backbone. The focus is once again on open access to infrastructure under non-discriminatory conditions and regulated tariffs. At the moment this is in discussion in the IKW.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u21	Madam Minister, we look forward to the next steps that will be taken in this area. In the context of the hydrogen story, it is important for the N-VA to look at the steps that can be made federally forward, respecting the powers of the regions. There may not be too much discussion about this backbone itself, but there are some other hot issues that need to be discussed. We will continue to follow that up from Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u22	Madam Secretary, in May you called for the mandatory use of solar panels in certain cases. Flemish minister Demir decided to impose solar panels on 2,500 companies, including 700 government buildings. Of course, the federal government can only comment on the government buildings it owns. The decision of 18 March has already mentioned this. I had also made a number of proposals on this subject myself, but unfortunately they were voted down by the majority. Of course, it would not be wise for the federal government to postpone its efforts in this area until the deadline of, for example, the Flemish Region becomes active. That leads to the following questions. How many federal government buildings are the subject of the Flemish decision on solar panels? In what way do you wish to roll out the ambition of the 18 March core around the solar panels with your colleagues in the federal government? Has there been a figure on this in terms of objective that you want to achieve?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u23	From the discussions in the Flemish Parliament, I understand that the only criterion subject to a reduction in electricity of more than 500 megawatts per year and that the modalities are not yet fixed. On the basis of a draft regulation, it is very difficult to correctly identify a number of public buildings concerned. Nevertheless, the number of federal government buildings that decrease more than 500 megawatthure per year is estimated at about 50 buildings in the Flemish Region. This decision is in accordance with the agreement of 18 March. Several decisions of the agreement fall within the competence of several ministers and work to implement the deployment of solar panels on government buildings has already been launched. The staff of the Ministers responsible and the Secretary of State shall consult each other on this matter. We are joining our country in this way with the European dynamic, where the REPowerEU plan also proposes to introduce a corporate social security obligation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u24	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I understand that it is difficult to anticipate draft legislation. At the same time, it would seem bizarre to me if the federal government had been dragging its feet for too long. You know that Secretary of State Michel said: we do want to build solar panels, but we do not know the state and the orientation of the roofs. In fact, we do not even know what the situation is with regard to electrical installations. However, the whole package that has been proposed will come from you. You submitted that to the government. I expect you to follow that closely. I'm afraid this is watering down a little bit. I will also submit your reply to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u25	Mr Gillissen and Mrs Dierick are not present for their combined questions. 55028064C and 55028511C.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u26	Madam Minister, under the gas emergency plan, there is provision for partial or complete shutdown. It is not entirely clear how this will affect the different regions. As far as I understand, the federal government doesn't want to reveal what the mutual distribution would be about. There are about two hundred customers who together consume about 50 TWh of gas on an annual basis. As my information suggests, 80% of the cuts would be in Flanders. There are, of course, a number of questions that arise in the event of such imbalances. The electricity switch-off plan deliberately implemented an adjustment in 2014 when it appeared that there would be too large a share of switching-off in Wallonia. Now that it is moving in the opposite direction, it seems that nothing is being done, and it seems that even the figures should not be made public. Can you deny that there is a major imbalance in the elimination of natural gas customers between Flanders and Wallonia? Are you prepared to make the figures on the distribution of these 200 companies across the three regions available to Parliament? Will you adjust the emergency plan in this area so that the impact is more evenly distributed between the regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u27	Mr Wollants, historically the natural gas distribution network is less extensive in Wallonia than in Flanders. The historical development of industry further makes it possible that there are more customers and consumers in Flanders today than in Wallonia. If a mandatory reduction were to be effective, this would be done on the basis of an equal effort, in particular a percentage reduction in consumption, for all customers, irrespective of geographical location, in order to avoid discrimination between different customers. This non-discriminatory approach leads de facto at aggregate regional level to a greater reduction in absolute figures in Flanders than in Wallonia. Of course, there is no difference. Of course, I would like to share with you the letter I sent to Minister Demir, who asked me the same question. The European regulations on security of supply for natural gas and electricity differ greatly. The main aim of the regulation on natural gas is to affect households, social services and district heating facilities in very difficult circumstances. This is very different from the European regulation on the electricity sector, which does not provide for this principle of protected customers. In Flanders, much more households heat on natural gas than in Wallonia. The situation is therefore not comparable to the electricity grid, where the distribution of connections and consumption between the regions is much closer. Given the structural differences in the use of natural gas between the regions and the need for the emergency plan to protect households in particular, it is not appropriate for me to make an analogy with the situation in 2014. We are currently working on an adaptation of the emergency plan, to include unprotected customers in the shutdown plan, and to take even more account of the specific possibilities and limitations of industrial natural gas consumption. But as a result, the relationship between Flanders and Wallonia will not change substantially. Enover will be provided for consultation on possible adjustments to the emergency plan, but we are working here with a very tight timetable to be prepared for the coming winter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u28	This also means, of course, Madam Minister, that one region will be much more economically affected, namely Flanders. When the gas consumption of these companies is stopped, the result is that a lot of people end up in temporary unemployment and so on. The burden here is to a large extent passed on to one region. I'm really wondering why the federal government doesn't want to hear about that. I am listening to your answer, but the immediate consequence is that the impact is enormous for that one Region. However, that does not seem to affect the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u29	Madam Minister, following the fall in oil prices in the course of 2020, APETRA had to take this into account in her books. At the same time, it also deals with stock management, selling and purchasing parts of the stocks. Meanwhile, energy prices give a slightly different picture. I therefore suspect that this may make the valuation of stocks somewhat different today. I can imagine that there was the issue of the supply of a volume of oil to Ukraine, which could also have an effect. The contribution APETRA receives is also partly dependent on oil prices, which may also lead to increased revenue from today's high prices. Following the corona crisis, a minimum contribution was introduced because oil prices were just too low to cover a number of costs. The current prices may, however, mean that we have to talk today about the introduction of a maximum contribution. What is the impact of high energy prices on APETRA's operations? What are the consequences of this? Is this what we are talking about and are you planning to draw conclusions from this? Is there a need to limit the contribution in the event of very high prices on the market? That is the situation we are in today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u30	Mr Wollants, high energy prices currently have relatively little impact on APETRA's operations. On the expenditure side, higher energy prices and inflation are likely to increase the prices offered to the Agency in the context of public procurement. The calculation formula of the contribution contains a fixed element for the reimbursement of these storage costs and inspection costs, but this contribution is lower than the actual cost. In fact, APETRA's revenue is increasing, but so is expenditure. If APETRA were to purchase additional security stocks, this would also have to be done with these higher oil prices. However, additional stock purchases are not necessary at present, given the reduced consumption of motor fuels by the coronallock downs. Since its creation on 1 April 2007, the APETRA contribution has always fluctuated with the evolution of the two variable elements, namely oil prices and interest rates. With higher revenues compared to the costs incurred, a positive accounting and ESA result is generated, as APETRA is consolidated in the federal government. Therefore, no excess profits are generated, as the APETRA Act states that any additional revenue can only be used for the purchase of stocks or the redemption of its debt. As of 31 December 2021, APETRA requested EUR 615 million from the current credit line at the Belgian Debt Agency and also has loans for EUR 480 million. This brings the total current funding to EUR 1.095 billion. At present, there seems to be no need to limit APETRA's contribution in the event of very high prices on the market, as revenue but also expenditure increases. Although a possible reduction in the APETRA contribution has a very limited impact on consumers, we will of course continue to monitor this, especially if oil prices remain very high. Finally, I would like to emphasise the crucial role of APETRA in security of supply for oil.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u31	Madam Secretary, it is important to keep following that up. At the time when oil prices were very low, APETRA reported a very large loss of income due to the valuation rules of stocks. If oil prices then become very high, it is somewhat bizarre to say that this has no effect on their situation. Those two things next to each other make me ask a number of questions. On the basis of your answer, I will continue to investigate. No doubt I will come back with that if that is the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u32	Madam Minister, in February, you took a number of legal measures to deal with malpractice by certain energy suppliers. You have therefore announced an information and awareness campaign in collaboration with the FPS Economy to strengthen the rights of energy consumers vis-à-vis suppliers. A working group was set up to identify complaints patterns and to be able to respond more quickly. At the end of February, you received a proposal of collective code of conduct from the sector and stated in mid-March that it was still being analysed by your services. The FPS Economy had the information and awareness campaign ready in mid-March and would roll it out on the basis of the FPS communication plan. The first consultation of the working group took place on 23 February. As you know, the Federal Ombudsman is not sitting still. For example, he advocated extending the payment period of invoices to at least 30 calendar days instead of the current 15-day deadline. In its recommendations it refers to free payment plans, free initial reminders and the fixing of maximum amounts in case of default. Has the working group at issue been meeting since 23 February 2022? Which were the themes and results? How does the Minister assess the cited recommendations of the Federal Ombudsman for Energy in the light of the still high energy bill? What is the status of the collective code of conduct proposed by the sector at the end of February 2022? Has the information and awareness campaign already been implemented by the communication service of the FOD, or is it limited to the "Everything about energy contracts in nine questions and answers" web site of the FPS Economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u33	Madam Minister, at the beginning of the energy crisis, we saw a lot of practices to deny consumers their permanent contract, because it hurt the energy supplier itself in particular. Over the past few weeks, I have heard a little less of such stories. I do not know whether this is already a result of the creation of a working group of the CREG, the Energy Ombudsman and the Economic Inspectorate, but I am very interested in his work. We have heard a lot about this. For example, he has made suggestions about the payment of energy bills and everything that has to do with the procedures. Madam Secretary, can you give me more information on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u34	Madam Minister, it is not easy for the consumer in the energy market that I was able to experience in person when I wanted to conclude a new contract for my mom. It is good that there will then be an ombud service for energy, where consumers can go. We are seeing an increase in the number of complaints, which is not surprising, because the situation in the energy market is currently incredibly difficult. The ombudsdienst has made a number of concrete policy recommendations. For example, he proposes to increase the payment period for energy bills from 15 to 30 days. This gives the customer more room to pay the bill, but it would also help the energy companies because they are lagging behind in their customer service due to this intense period of time. So that would be a win-win situation. He also makes another policy recommendation concerning the many additional costs that are charged to defaulters. The ombudsdienst is in favour of aligning and making the initial reminder and formatting of the payment plan free of charge. The ombudsdienst also refers to the safety net mechanism that was abolished by the previous government in 2017. The CREG itself called for this mechanism to be re-established in 2020 in the event of massive price increases, even temporarily. A web portal, referring to the right authorities, would also be crucial. Madam Secretary, are you in favour of extending payment deadlines? Do you agree that the additional costs that energy companies pass on to contributors should be better regulated? Do you think it is appropriate to reinstall the safety net mechanism, whether temporarily or not? How do the proposals relate to the work of the working group to which colleagues have referred? How will you proceed in consultation with the Ombudsman on the proposals?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u35	Not only the Energy ombudsdienst, but also my administration and my cabinet are flooded with questions and complaints from consumers about the energy bill. Good and unambiguous information, but also strong consumer protection, are therefore in the interests of everyone. The working group to which you refer came together three times so far and will continue to do so on a regular basis. It was my explicit question that this working group should be set up so that information could be exchanged between us on complaints and complaints patterns, so that we, as policy makers, can take them quickly. The members of the working group have made a number of policy recommendations, which are in line with those of the ombudsdienst; I will discuss them together. With regard to safety net price regulation, a reintroduction of the safety net system would increase the transparency of pricing for gas and electricity suppliers. That would be good for the variable price products. However, the safety net would have little impact on final customers' prices. Moreover, the risk of bankruptcy for small suppliers would be further increased. Today, therefore, my conclusion is that it is not appropriate to re-introduce the safety net system. Such a measure is on our radar, which we will continue to monitor continuously, also in the context of the discussions currently taking place at European level, for example on the price mechanism used there. At the moment it doesn't seem to be in order, but we'll see what the future brings. As far as payment deadlines are concerned, the protection of the most vulnerable consumers is a very important priority for me. We also continue to be in close contact with poverty organisations, so that we keep feeling about the thresholds against which people collide in poverty. Those who do not live in poverty may have an idea about it, but sometimes it is far from reality. Those organisations themselves came up with the same measures. In any case, we are establishing a world of difference between who and who is not in debt. For me, therefore, it is important to avoid a situation of debt in the first place. We can achieve this by extending the payment deadlines for the energy bill from 15 to 30 days. This deadline also corresponds de facto to the period that suppliers themselves often use to make their repayment to the final customer. It is necessary and only fair to rectify the situation in the market. Mrs Buyst, I will start work on extending the deadline. I will, of course, involve the regions, because the current 15-day deadline is based not only on the federal consumer agreement but also on regional rules, in particular on the public service obligations they impose on suppliers. So let us start this work together with the Regions in order to reduce debt together. Fourthly, the need for better access to information on the energy market. The communication action of the SPF Economy was launched on its website on 18 May. Clients can find answers and references for the most common questions. In addition, the synthesis of information has been transmitted to the press, the municipal authorities and the CPAS via the other channels of communication of the SPF Economy so that they can disseminate it to their respective target groups. The SPF Economy constantly informs consumers of their rights in the field of energy and will continue to do so in the coming months through the channels of communication at its disposal. Among other things, newsletters, social media, the SPF website and contact centre are used for this. Fifthly, strengthening consumer and SME rights. As you know, I am in favour of most of the proposed measures and I will discuss with my competent colleagues how best to implement these measures in the light of a broader set of consumer measures. I am also consulting with the sector in order to bring the code of conduct to a higher level of quality because, so far, it has not been sufficiently detailed in its methodology or sufficiently verifiable in terms of compliance with the rules. Work is therefore continuing on additional measures to further increase market transparency. For any questions concerning the Single Window, I invite you to address my colleague Secretary of State Eva De Bleeker, who is working on the transposition of this Article of the European Directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u36	Madam Minister, thank you for your comprehensive and detailed reply. I am pleased that you want to work on extending the deadline. This will in any case require consultation with the regions within the framework of regional legislation in this area. I understand that you are very careful in this context, with a safety net regulation. Apparently, my suspicion was that the passage on the FPS Economy website "all about energy contracts in nine questions and answers" was part of that communication campaign, although that is of course not the only one. We'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u37	Thank you for your answer, Minister. With regard to untransparent sales practices, I mean that you show your willingness not to go beyond the mechanisms put in place at European level. I raised the issue of creating an energy-related one-stop shop for Belgium. Indeed, we see that there are one-stop shops, but only at the level of the regions. I will therefore follow your suggestion and ask your colleague Mrs De Bleeker about this. Finally, I am pleased to learn the news of this centralization of information and communication by the SPF Economy. I think it is important that this centralised communication can exist, not only with regard to the citizens but also with regard to the local authorities, as you said.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u38	Madam Secretary, it's clear. I am pleased to be able to say once again that clear and strong consumer rights are also very important to you, even when it comes to the energy market. It is good that a number of policy recommendations are being considered and that you want to start the policy recommendations of the ombudsperson, to extend payment deadlines, which will benefit both consumers and energy suppliers. I have listened carefully and heard that we need to cooperate with the regions. However, I assume that the regions will also follow the policy recommendation in this regard, in order to make it easier, more unambiguous and stronger for consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u39	Madam Minister, in the third part of its approach to the energy crisis, the government has decided to apply a double VAT reduction until September 2022, but residents of buildings with a collective heating system cannot enjoy it. The Minister of Finance said in mid-May in the committee that he wanted to work out a solution for this, together with you and Minister Lalieux. You are annoyed by Mr Bouchez, but I am annoyed by people who say the following: 'A mistake that will be corrected in the coming days'. That's a quote from none other than the chairman of the PS. It seems that there is no direct question of correcting that error in a few days' time. I can understand that, but I can understand two things. There is therefore a slight sin by several party chairmen of Vivaldi. That's another euphemism. You would ask the AD Energy and the CREG to look for solutions. What is the state of play on solutions for residents of buildings with a collective heating system? What is the state of research into the use of the social tariff for electricity for collective connections to heat pumps in social housing? What is the state of play with regard to the global reform of the social tariff, in the light of your recent statements that you want to make it permanent and that is very topical in the light of what the experts have proposed today to the core cabinet on social rates, the target group of which may need to be expanded to include more consumers? Of course, there is a serious price to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u40	Madam Minister, I did not replicate just now because I was satisfied with your answer on how to deal with unfair consumer practices. Here's something I'm having a hard time with. The reduction in the VAT rate is a good thing. You won't be surprised if I say that. Mr Ravyts called it a mistake. I don't know if it's a mistake. The legislation does indeed provide that legal persons are not covered. That's a statement. That's a problem, because a lot of people live in an apartment and have a VME that concludes the contract. These are often people with low ecological footprints, which is a good thing in itself. It is simply unfair that they will not be able to benefit from that measure that you and the federal government have taken. I questioned Minister Van Peteghem about this. Mr Ravyts did not quote me quite correctly, Mr Van Peteghem told me that he had asked the Energy and Social Emancipation Ministers to work out a solution. So he put himself out there, which I find a little strange, because he's qualified for a big piece. So it looks like we are going to extend this measure in September, given the uncertain winter that is coming. It would simply be no more than normal if those people could also be covered by this rule. It may not be easy to work that out, but I would like to ask you how you are going to find a solution to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u41	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the problem has already been sufficiently explained and explained. What solution do you propose for the VAT reduction to 6% for collective natural gas heating?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Van Peteghem has already explained that the contracts for apartment buildings with a collective heating installation are in the name of the association of co-owners, so those contracts are not covered by the temporary VAT reduction to 6%, valid from April to September for natural gas. Together with you, I am absolutely aware of this situation and of the injustice felt by many of the residents concerned. They are also, to a certain extent, the victims of our institutional and complex energy organisation. The definition of a contract, whether or not it is a residential contract, can also be found in regional regulations. In Flanders, the energy decree expressly states that there is only a residential contract in so far as the contract is not concluded by a legal person holding a CBO number. An association of co-owners has a CBO number. A second point that we are faced with is that there is, in principle, an obligation. Everyone must have an individual connection imposed from Europe, but in our country there are still situations where this is not the case. That is the background to show that we may be able to take a lot of measures, but that we will have to come up with something else to solve it. A solution within the VAT context is not possible, as we are bound by our hands and feet. I still don't have jurisdiction over the Regions. I can see Mr Wollants coming if I want to intervene in regional powers. Nor do I have an impact on the initiatives of the Regions to effectively ensure that each individual residence also has an individual connection, because that belongs to the distribution network level, a competence of the Regions. Therefore, from my domain of competence, I cannot assess whether the VAT reduction decided upon can easily be adjusted to include the collective connections of apartment buildings. With regard to the statements made by the French-speaking party chairman, the Minister for Finance is the only one who can clarify this. I think Mr Ravyts' comment on the question of the social tariff for electricity for collective heat pump-based heating systems is correct. It is also currently examining how to bring such installations within the scope of the social tariff. Making this possible, however, requires a change of law. When it comes to a heat pump that provides heat to several buildings, I also say immediately that the social rate for heat will apply from 1 July. The earlier questions on the social rate for heat fell because the persons who had submitted these questions were no longer present. However, as from 1 July, the social rate for heat shall apply. As I have just said, my answer to criticism is results. The extension to the target group entitled to the social tariff is one of the first measures of my social energy policy. I therefore make it a priority to extend this measure. The experts and the anti-poverty organisations also agree on the need for this anchoring.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u43	Madam Minister, you are, of course, right that the Flemish decree is on the agenda. I also mentioned this in my question. Facts are facts. I welcome the social rate for heat. I understand that it is not easy and that changes cannot simply be introduced into VAT policy. At the AD Energy and the CREG, however, there are a lot of people who are smarter than I am and who can undoubtedly imagine other slopes. In fact, a few have already been launched in the press by the party chairman who wanted to give the impression to the public that he would settle this matter in a few days' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u44	Madam Minister, your answer is obviously not to get very excited about it. At the time when the words 'complex institutional situation' are spoken, I usually cling to my chair. Then I know that there may be an answer that will not please me very much. I understand the situation very well, but of course it goes against the spirit of what we were aiming for at the time when we took the measures. So I cannot fully accept it. I have also heard Mrs Demir, who is competent at the regional level, say this week that there is still a need for better cooperation in the Belgian political shithole. Maybe she can make a first move here. These people should not be the victims of a situation in which our law does not allow people to receive the rate they deserve, especially when it comes to people who already have a low ecological footprint.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u45	Madam Secretary, you are Minister of Energy of the Kingdom of Belgium and you must establish your powerlessness here. This is another typical example of the absurdity of all these state reforms and of the structure of our country, whose ordinary and poor people are the victims. I can only take note of your answer and I hope that it will all be questioned. You know that we are in favour of one energy minister in this country. That should be you, or at least the federal minister, not necessarily you as a person. For the record, I have nothing against you. This, however, is indicative and the people are always the victims of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u46	With this question, we're back in the nuclear sphere. In 1989, the Belgian State undertook to finance the costs of the rehabilitation of the three already existing nuclear liabilities. We are talking about Engie Electrabel all the time, but of course there are other nuclear liabilities. Three so-called technical passive funds were set up at the NIRAS. Those three technical passive funds will have to be refinanced from next year; that is not so long anymore. You asked for a spending review on that funding. This was done on the basis of recommendations from the European Commission and even the OECD. Your intention was to better define priorities and improve the efficiency and effectiveness of what is ultimately public expenditure. Let us not forget that the funding requirements will be charged to the federal budget. So it's always good to do his homework thoroughly in advance. My question is very simple: how are we doing with the spending review on the cost of cleaning up Belgian nuclear liabilities?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u47	Thank you very much for your question, Mr Ravyts. I appreciate you coming back to it a few times. Perhaps you will not find my answer sufficiently clear, but I would like to say by way of introduction that it is a very important dossier for me. I have taken the initiative to have the nuclear passive and the large amount of money flowing towards it examined critically. Belgium is one of the first countries to take such an initiative. At the moment when the Secretary of State for Budget indicated that she wanted to work with spending reviews, we gave the signal from our team that we wanted to participate in this. The proposal comes from my cabinet, but it is, of course, the administration of the Budget and Energy, which manages the research and the agenda. I look forward to the results of the spending review. We thought it was important for such a review to be carried out, because the budgets for the management of the nuclear passive are rising exponentially. They will continue to tax the budget for many years, much longer than we can imagine. Of course, there are also the communicating vessels with the liabilities managed by Synatom. I am aware that we have already had the discussion on this subject once. It is normal that we look at that very critically. We are currently waiting for the results. After we have completed work on the liabilities and the law of 2003 that is now before us in Parliament, that file is the next yard. We must, of course, be able to protect ourselves; we must not allow the file to remain a Pandora's box, as it has been for years. I can tell you that it wasn't so obvious to find experts for it. On our team, we were a little surprised. It was as if no one wanted to or felt sufficiently equipped. I can't tell you exactly who the experts are right now, but I'll definitely come back to it in more detail later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u48	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Indeed, I suspected myself that my question would probably come too soon. Anyway, the year is halfway through and I wanted to see if the competent administrations had already informed you. In the autumn we will be able to discuss this again together in this Gremium.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u49	Madam Minister, we have not yet received much information on how this is going to be done in terms of communication on the means of research into small modular reactors. We understand, however, that a tough condition is that no water is used as a coolant in these reactors. It is not entirely clear to us where that condition comes from. Of course, it is known that MYRRHA is thinking of lead-bismut cooling, but the formulation in the press also seemed to leave room for gas-cooling reactors. We are not clear on the basis of what happened. Because there are also a number of existing reactor concepts that would then be perfectly eligible. The United Kingdom had a large number of gas-cooled graphite reactors at the time. And the pebblebed reactors are also gas cooled. What are the concrete conditions and the plan of action for the research? What is the motivation not to consider water-cooled reactors, but gas- and metal-cooled ones? Which of the current SMR concepts that are being examined whether the next few years will be installed in Europe are of the water-cooled type? Which countries are watching that? To what extent do these conditions make international cooperation easier or more difficult?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u50	Together with the SCK CEN and any industrial partners, we are launching a research programme to explore the possibilities of electricity and hydrogen production via SMR by 2040. The government recognises the existing nuclear excellence and expertise in the country and encourages the research and development of new nuclear technology for various applications. The SCK CEN has been commissioned to carry out, possibly in collaboration with a private player and/or universities, a technology assessment of all developing small modular reactor types (SMRs) and their compliance with a number of principles. These principles are passive safety, the minimising of long-lived waste, non-proliferation, flexibility, economic feasibility, economic insurability, sustainable development and the realisation period. In the meantime, MYRRHA will then be commissioned to cooperate with other governments, research institutions and private investors on SMR technology, whether or not through participation in the Ivzw MYRRHA. To this end, a long-term programme for which EUR 25 million will be made available over the coming years will be drawn up. Thus, within the framework of the SCK CEN, it is not so much about the exclusion of specific types such as gascooling or lead-bismuth cooling, but about general parameters on which the reactor types under development are being assessed. That's about 70. The conditions of minimising long-lived waste require reactor types which are not the same as the current water-cooled reactors. The Technology Assessment of the SCK CEN will review the current SMR concepts and the answer to your question will be shown. Belgium's expertise in the nuclear sector and the unique know-how built up by the research on the MYRRHA project allow Belgium to position itself as an interesting partner for international cooperation. I shall therefore put this topic on the agenda again and again in my discussions with foreign colleagues, for example during the economic mission in the UK, on which I will answer another question later. Two weeks ago, I was in the United States. A question has been asked about this, about a private activity in the United States. You'd better ask me what I'm doing there as part of my ministry. I have therefore spoken with my colleagues at the DOE, including the SMRs and the development of small reactors, and possible cooperation in this area. In fact, the coalition agreement states that "Myrrha' is specific, but we can extend it to "SMR' that external funding will be necessary for the success of the project. So we are doing everything we can to ensure that this funding is made available. Each on his level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u51	Mr President, we are no longer able to follow. I have the impression that the Minister's focus halfway through the question has suddenly shifted a bank slightly back. It's worth looking at how that's all gonna work. I take note of the fact that the way in which some have pointed this out at some point was too short. I understand that the story is about existing reactor concepts that you say is just not what we want. I would like to examine a number of issues relating to this. There are, of course, reactor concepts that have been going on for some time and that already have a lot of reactor hours on the counter, so they also have their merits throughout the debate. I will investigate further how this has been designed and how we can deal with it. It is very important that you convey and promote the concept of MYRRHA as much as possible. This has not always been the case in the past. I'm glad you want to be the face of MYRRHA.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u52	Mr President, Minister, you are beating and anointing me all the time this afternoon. Maybe you're gonna hit me again. However, I am a very good boy and think it is undeserved that I should be beaten, especially when I quote from the Flemish Government's note, from Mrs Demir, who is not satisfied with an article in the law of 14 February 2022 concerning the obligation to permit storage infrastructure. It is explicitly stated that there has been no prior consultation with the regions on the draft law and that you have even created the possibility of imposing technical criteria on regional electricity generation plants related to energy efficiency. You would not distinguish between large and small energy storage facilities, including a strictly regional competence. And so it continues, home batteries and bidirectional batteries of electric cars could be subjected, potentially, to a licensing obligation, and certainly to a reporting obligation. So there is some discussion about the correct interpretation of large scale. According to Mrs Demir, massive storage infrastructure is a key component of security of supply, such as gas storage and electricity savings. Let's say it's about a power of over 1,000 megawatts. She says that the storage law and the mini-KB, which has been published in the meantime, violate the strategic powers of the Flemish Region with regard to the production and storage of renewable energy or energy tout court. One would try to arrange that. The "Consultation Committee of 1 June 2022" stands for the varia. There was time for the Flemish Government, for Mrs Demir, to bring an action for annulment by a Council of State procedure until 6 June, and even possibly the Constitutional Court, which, of course, deals with the area of competence. Can you give us an update? After all, I am not on the Conciliation Committee. Especially the varia are sometimes cryptic. Whether or not a solution was reached? Has Mrs Demir effectively filed an appeal for destruction?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u53	The issue was indeed discussed at the Consultation Committee on 1 June. The Consultation Committee took note of a note from the Flemish authorities announcing and explaining the actions for annulment. There is now further consultation between the authorities of this country. From the federal level, a compromise proposal has been shared between the relevant Cabinets. We are now waiting for feedback from the regions and we will have a first discussion next week. The next Consultative Committee will then report on the discussions. The decision of the Consultation Committee of 1 June also provides that no claims will be submitted or that claims lodged will be withdrawn as soon as a solution has been found. In any case, we will have to wait a few years for a ruling if the legal procedure is to continue. I will do everything I can with the regions to avoid it coming to this. A destruction would mean that there would no longer be a federal permit requirement for storage facilities participating in the CRM. This does not mean, therefore, that their participation in the auction would suddenly become illegal. There is legal certainty to be taken into account in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u54	Thank you for this accurate answer, which we can work with again in the Flemish Parliament. Apparently the soup is not eaten as hot as it is served and there is still possibility to get out of here. Perhaps that will also sound like music to Mr Wollants.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u55	Minister, on May 12, the economic mission to the United Kingdom ended after a relatively busy program. The contacts between Belgian and British companies resulted in the signing of nine memoranda of understanding. Could you provide an update on the signed protocols related to your departmental competencies? Could you specify what emerged from your meeting with your UK counterpart on energy cooperation agreements? What progress has been made? What projects could be successful quickly? Finally, in the light of the declaration by the Belgian and British prime ministers, can you inform me of the possibilities for strengthening cooperation between Belgium and the United Kingdom on renewable energy?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u56	(...) of the two key themes. Various events have taken place in order to highlight Belgian expertise in this field and to facilitate cooperation with British companies. As regards cooperation with the United Kingdom, a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on decarbonisation and electrical interconnection was concluded between myself and my colleague Greg Hands before the economic mission. This MoU focuses on the optimal use and reuse of existing infrastructure and the development of new interconnections in order to achieve the energy transition in an efficient manner. During the economic mission, I spoke with Secretary of State Kwarteng about the further operationalization of the MoU and we exchanged information on the increasingly ambitious objectives of offshore development in both countries. In my view, cooperation is therefore obvious both bilaterally and regionally. I continue to urge the European Commission to reach an agreement as soon as possible so that the United Kingdom can again participate in the North Seas Energy Cooperation. Through political and economic contacts, the economic mission contributed to the declaration between our two prime ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u57	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I won't be much longer in my line. I can only welcome the good cooperation between Belgium and the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u58	Mr President, I shall put my questions to you. Delay 55028470C, 55028472C and 55028868C.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u59	Madam Minister, biofuels are increasingly under attack. I think that's right, too. Thanks to the Bond's study on Better Environment, not only do we have a better view of the life cycle of biofuels, there is also the global food crisis following the war in Ukraine and there are towering fuel prices. It is therefore high time we looked at biofuels. Madam Minister, what is the state of play in phasing out the use of palm oil and soya for biofuels and other components of biofuels, which are also in our food and which I do not think should be added to our dieseltank?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u60	Madam Minister, I would like to introduce the problem a little more broadly. I do not need to explain to you as a green minister that our world is now prey to two escalating crises, an energy crisis and a food crisis. It's in the media almost every day. These two crises make themselves felt together in the problem of biofuels. Prices are rising and there is a fear of a declining supply of fossil fuels. As a result, speculative demand for biofuels in the world is increasing. It increases prices at the pump even more, and it puts further pressure on supply on the food market, which is already suffering from the war in Ukraine. Of course, the failed harvests due to climate change are added to that. By the way, diesel is gonna be even more expensive tomorrow. Many countries are beginning to question biofuels policy. In the meantime, it is well documented that, contrary to all the illusions at first, most biofuels actually produce more emissions over their entire life cycle than fossil fuels. Why, then, should we make the population pay even more to the pump for a fuel which is even more polluting and which is also driving hunger in the world? It is therefore perfectly understandable that in March the European Commission expressed its support for reducing the incorporation of biofuels in order to free up additional agricultural land for food production. It did so in a communication on safeguarding food security and strengthening the resilience of food systems. Since then, some European countries have actually reduced their use of biofuels. In particular, it concerns Finland, Croatia, the Czech Republic and recently Germany, which has set out a full phase-out path for biofuels. Will you follow the German example and effectively phase out biofuels? In what sense will you translate this into the transposition of the RED II Directive, which should have been transposed into Belgian legislation for some time? After all, we are almost a year after the transposition deadline. So when can we expect this transposition and what objective do you set yourself for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u61	The government decided last year that the financial stimulus for the incorporation of palm and soya oil biofuels would be phased out by 1 January 2023 and 1 July 2023 respectively. The necessary legislative texts are being prepared and I hope to be able to present them to the government and Parliament very soon. Given the negative social and environmental consequences of the consumption of biofuels produced from other food and fodder products, I believe that a phasing-out scenario of the financial stimulus should also be developed for these products. Discussions on the transposition of the Renewable Energy Directive II (RED II) are still ongoing in the government. This should take into account, inter alia, the differences in the environmental performance of the various types of biofuels and provide sufficient time and perspective for the sector to move towards more sustainable and advanced raw materials and markets. I shall list the prices applicable before March 2022. For Euro 95 petrol or E10 petrol, the product price was 0.8274 euros per litre. If there were no matching requirements for petrol and therefore it was a pure fossil product, the price of the product would be EUR 0,7254 per litre. The incorporation required therefore leads to an additional cost of EUR 0,1020 per litre. For diesel B7, the product price is 0.9671 euros per litre. Without matching requirements, the product price would be 0.8685 euros per litre. The incorporation required therefore leads to an additional cost of 0.0986 euros per litre. The final NEKP, adopted at the end of 2019, decided that a study should be carried out every two years on the various aspects of biofuels policy, in particular the technical feasibility of incorporation, availability of raw materials, environmental integrity, potential conflicts of use, availability of advanced biofuels, including recycled carbon fuels, technological developments in the European market, availability of other renewable energy sources and consumer costs. The study was first carried out and completed in 2020 and will be carried out a second time this year. It is clear that the additional costs resulting from the incorporation obligation are an element in the high prices the consumer has to pay to the pump. I would like to refer here to Mr Gilkinet's reply in plenary on 9 June to Mr Verduyckt's question to Minister Khattabi on the phasing-out of agricultural crops in biofuels, which I endorse. I quote: 'The current context, resulting in rising raw materials on world markets, emphasises once again, according to Mrs Khattabi, the absurdity of current policies. The use of food crops for the production of biofuels has become more ethical and economically unsustainable than ever before. First of all, we need to put an end to state aid for such practices. Minister Khattabi calls for a general ban on the use of biofuels based on raw materials that can also be used for food purposes, in order to achieve our European targets in the field of renewable additions to fossil fuels for the transport sector. The transposition of the European RED II Directive is a concrete lever for this government to take steps in this direction. Studies show that this will also have a positive impact on the price at the pump for the consumer."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u62	Thank you for your clear position, Madam Secretary. The conversion of the RED II takes too long. Your figures confirm what I said in plenary last week, namely that it costs about EUR 5 for a full tank, whereas an addition of these products actually produces the intended effect. On the contrary, there is a negative impact on our environment. That is why I supported Mrs Khattabi's statement last week, expressed by her colleague. Such a measure is indeed absurd. I hope that we have been able to convince any conservative forces in the government that we really need to get rid of biofuels and that they need to be phased out in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u63	I'm on Mr Verduyckt's line. From your explanation, Madam Secretary of State, you also want to get rid of biofuels. But what you are proposing on the subject remains to be seen. In any case, we are in favour of stopping biofuels based on agricultural crops and removing the obligation to mix them. In your answer, you spoke for a moment about the cost. So we'll wait and see what you finally arrive at. As far as the transition is concerned, a calendar may have to be drawn up. I see that other countries are already in the process of phasing out. What worries me very much, and this also applies to many other dossiers, is your statement that the discussion is still ongoing in the government. We really need to do something about that. I find the situation really absurd. I learn from your list of prices that consumers pay about 10 cents extra for polluting substances in petrol or diesel, and we are also contributing to world hunger. You can't do that. You really need to work on phasing out and I hope that the government will resolve the problem quickly, all the more so because the RED II needs to be transposed into Belgian law. According to the environmental movement, which put the figures on the table, car drivers pay up to EUR 1 billion extra to the pump. I hope that will come to an end soon. We will, of course, continue to follow up on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u64	Madam Minister, when I look at France, I see a lot of problems with the nuclear park, it has already been referred to. Corona delayed work, but unexpected wear and tear problems have also emerged at several nuclear power plants. The introduction of the new large nuclear power plant in Flamanville has since been postponed so many times, and I dare say that nuclear power and reliability are not always the best marriage. On the other hand, I see the war with Russia and the increasing threat of the gas tap shutting down. If I add these two things up, I ask whether we should be concerned about whether there will be sufficient electricity in our country in the coming winter. After all, these are not minor problems that arise on two totally different fronts.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u65	Of course, any event abroad can potentially have an impact on the adequacy of Belgium. You specifically ask here about the unavailability of the French nuclear production fleet. According to the data available so far on the REMIT transparency platform, the situation in France has deteriorated significantly. It can be concluded that the unavailability of French nuclear energy is almost systematically higher than that taken into account in the baseline scenario of the latest study by Elia on adequacy. France is increasingly dependent, among other things, on our exports. France today relies on Belgium to guarantee its own security of supply. Not only in terms of electricity, but also in terms of gas. At present, this does not lead to problems in Belgium, but there are of course several factors that Belgium does not understand. First of all, the weather. The coldest periods are in January, but there may also be cold periods in November and December, the period in which the expected unavailability of French nuclear power is greatest. Secondly, the availability of the Belgian fleet. For the time being, the announced availability of the Belgian fleet is good, but there is always the risk of a sudden unavailability. Two years ago, for example, there was the threat of sudden unavailability because the fuel rods for Objective 2 could not be delivered because the export licence had been destroyed in court. Then there are the possible additional measures in the context of the war in Ukraine, such as the further interruption of gas supplies. Today, Eni was also confronted with the reduction of gas supplies by Gazprom. This can therefore also have an impact on the supply of electricity in Europe. With a view to the task of my administration to ensure the security of electricity supply in Belgium, we naturally follow up all risks closely. At my request, for example, the administration has strengthened the monitoring of French nuclear availability. For example, we have already put the subject on the European agenda several times, particularly in the European Electricity Coordination Group. I also asked the administration to enter into a bilateral dialogue with the competent French authorities. The aim is to discuss the security of supply of both our countries for the coming winter and to define together the framework for regular cooperation that will allow us to anticipate and address any adequacy problems. I also spoke bilaterally about this with my colleague, Mrs Pompili, who is now an ex-colleague. She said she had to rely on REMIT. However, we are confronted with the fact that REMIT does not reflect what the reality is. I then spoke with the European Commissioner to say that they are forcing me to take into account a high level of availability and import within the framework of the CRM, but that the reality is different. That is not only the position of the European Commission, but also of our regulator. They have also explained this here several times. I will therefore shortly be following up on the initiative taken yesterday or the day before yesterday with my new French colleague as a result of the deterioration of the data for the coming winter. So that is indeed a great concern, Mr Verduyckt, which is being followed up on a daily basis. We are also following this in a broader European framework. If we were to continue to protect ourselves against a structural problem on the French side, it would be under the auspices of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u66	Thank you for your detailed reply, Madam Secretary. You are right that we often have no control over things. When we were elected to this committee, we could never have suspected that we would experience a pandemic, a war and an energy crisis. It is nice to hear that this monitoring and follow-up is there and that you have continued attention to the world events. It is a punishment to learn that a country that depends on our country is regarded by some as a model country in terms of energy. I am glad that you share that concern and that you follow it closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u67	I refer to my question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u68	I would also like to refer to my written reply, given the technicality of the matter, but I shall read it. In Synatom's 2021 reference programme, which was delivered to NIRAS, Synatom indicated that the amount of fuel to be managed at the end of the operation of the nuclear power plants is estimated at 4,700 tHM (tonnes of heavy metal or tons of heavy metal). In this context, Synatom assumes a mixed scenario in which 440 tHM, including all MOX elements, will be transferred for reprocessing in the period 2030-2035, while the rest of the spent fissile materials will not be reprocessed. An agreement by the Belgian Government is needed to sign a reprocessing contract and an intergovernmental agreement between Belgium and France on the modalities for the management of the recovered quantities of plutonium and uranium by the French company Orano and the return to NIRAS of the waste arising from the reprocessing of this fuel. We started this session with the negotiations with ENGIE on nuclear energy. It is good that we have a technical question here about waste, just to remember that our activities result in plutonium and uranium that we have to manage in this country. As regards your fourth question, since the waste producer Synatom has provided for some reprocessing in its current reference programme 2021, NIRAS has based its reference scenario on that. Therefore, the capacity of the geological recovery plant, described in the NRAAS reference scenario and used for the estimation of fees, has been adapted to the quantities of reprocessed and unprocessed fissile materials specified in Synatom's reference programme. If there is no reprocessing of the MOX fuel, the possibility to process it and store it geologically must be confirmed by NIRAS and the corresponding fees must be paid. As regards nuclear facilities, which are partly more conservative, i.e. higher, than in the scenario without reprocessing, on the basis of the 2019 triennial revisions to the scenario. This means that, on the basis of the facilities, they can also cover the scenario without reprocessing. The effect of the generation of waste streams on the volume of waste to be stored depends on the fraction being reprocessed or not. As a rule of thumb, reprocessing reduces the volume of waste in category C and increases the volume of waste in category B, reducing the total underground area occupied by the disposal plant as a whole when more waste streams are reprocessed. You know, Mr President, that the processing of spent fuel is, of course, far more than a technical question. There is no reprocessing in our country. This means, of course, that we are faced with other delicate issues, such as the transport of these fissile materials to the reprocessing plant and the return of the remaining high-level radioactive waste. Such shipments require specific permits. I have just said in reply to a question by Mr Verduyckt that these licences are open to appeals and may be destroyed with all the consequences. In addition, plutonium is also separated in this process, which in turn leads to particular non-proliferation challenges.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u69	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I will certainly examine the data, but I think it is high time we had a proper discussion on this reprocessing. The famous resolution adopted in 1993 called for a debate and a decision to be taken within five years, but that never happened, as you know. As a result, the waste plans still contain the two scenarios: reprocessing and non-working. The FANC also refers to that. Maybe it's time we had this conversation, because every scenario has advantages and disadvantages. If we don't make the decision, I don't think we'll ever get out. I think there may also be advantages in building a smaller geological storage compared to not working up. Of course, other aspects can also play a role. Let us have that debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u70	Mr Wollants, the ombudsdienst currently has no knowledge of similar complaints. However, the ombudsperson notes that energy suppliers try to use a number of transactions, such as an undesirable supplier change, a move or a customer change, to change the price condition of energy contracts to variable prices. The ombudsmen have informed me that additional care will be taken to ensure that energy suppliers do not illegally attempt to get rid of energy contracts which are less favourable to them. This is clearly written by a lawyer. As regards the continuity of an energy contract, a contract for the supply of energy is in principle a contract for consideration and has an economic value which qualifies it as an asset which is therefore transferred with it. The law grants the legal effect of automatic transfer of assets and thus, inter alia, of all agreements entered into by the transferor. Therefore, the energy supplier could not argue that the co-contractor has a different VAT identification number. As regards your third question, if the conditions laid down in Article 12:101 of the Company Code are not met, it is not a transfer of a general title but a transfer of an interest requiring the agreement of the creditor. .
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u71	Madam Minister, thank you for your detailed and very specific reply. We can certainly continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u72	Mr President, Minister, in the context of anointing and beating, I was just wrongly dealt with by you, because I did ask you what views you had on your unmistakable expertise in energy and climate policy. So how do you evaluate the usefulness of your presence? On what budget was the cost of your participation recovered? That is a purely informative question. The following is also a purely informative question. Were you at that network event in your capacity as federal minister, and therefore also with the government's agreement, and not as a private person? It is a little unclear to me how this is done, but I am sure you will answer me now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u73	Mr Ravyts, I was in the United States for bilateral talks with my American colleagues. That's not what your question is about, but I'm saying it anyway. I have spoken with my colleagues on energy, but also with the State Department, because energy is embedded in foreign affairs. We have talked about energy security, energy security, the impact of the war in Ukraine, and also, and above all, about the platform for the joint purchase of energy, which is currently being set up by the European Commission and of which our country is a very strong leader. I have discussed with my American colleagues what this regulatory framework might look like, so it would be interesting to take part. It would be logical for you to question me on this, because that journey was carried out within the framework of my position as Minister. I did indeed go to the Bilderberg Conference. I was there for a personal title and I paid the cost of my stay myself. Who is invited and what has been discussed there will be announced by the organisation. It was about the war in Ukraine, energy security, globalisation and the redeployment of geopolitical maps. In any case, I have always indicated that what I have said there is no secret, is not special and is no different from what I always put forward, namely that we must accelerate the energy transition within the framework of a global security policy, i.e. for the climate, for the affordability of energy and for energy independence. It is also important that, in view of the issues on the agenda, that message could also be transmitted by me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic823x.u74	Madam Secretary, I am glad that the possible confusion is over. So you were there as a private person. Allow me to congratulate you on this, because it is sometimes said that the greats of the earth are there. Indeed, I think it is useful that you have talked to your American colleagues about the purchasing platform, which the EU will perhaps achieve by the end of this year.
