ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u1	Minister, in January I asked you a question about the extradition treaty you concluded with the United Arab Emirates and related to it the refused extradition of Nordin El Hajjioui. You replied that the extradition requests were still made before the signing of the Convention, which meant that the Convention was not yet applicable to the application refused at that time. There would be a further request for extradition soon, so you promised. According to leaked data from Dubai Uncovered, no less than 714 Belgians own at least one property in Dubai. There is nothing wrong with that in itself, everyone can have possessions, but if we look at who the people with possessions are there, we'll find some suspicious profiles. It's no secret that a lot of drug bosses from the Emirates are just running their business. That is also the main reason why you wanted to work on the extradition treaty, which was finally signed by both countries in December. However, it appears that the Convention has not yet been ratified by either country. So for now it's just a newspaper article, otherwise it's an empty box. Minister, when is the ratification of that treaty planned, both by Belgium and by the United Arab Emirates? In January, your services were still analysing the judgment with the decision to refuse extradition. What are the conclusions of that analysis? What is the status of the extradition of Nordin El Hajjioui? Has a new extradition request gone out the door yet? If so, what can be the result of that? How many extradition requests are currently addressed to the Emirates?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u2	Madam President, Mrs De Wit, calling this an empty box goes too far. This is not correct with regard to the people who have worked hard on this, not least the magistrates of the federal and Antwerp courts and the officials of the Federal Justice Department who once again travelled to the Emirates in March of this year to discuss a number of dossiers with the highest judicial authorities. This became possible thanks to the agreements we concluded with the Emirates in December last year. These treaties are certainly a lever for real operational cooperation with that country. The ratification of the extradition treaty and the legal aid treaty has meanwhile been prepared. It will be presented to Parliament before the summer. I am, of course, counting on your cooperation to ratify this quickly. Mrs Dillen, together with the judicial authorities, we have done everything we can to establish a legal framework for cooperation in criminal matters with the United Arab Emirates through these two conventions. Nor, in my contacts with Emiratic ministers, do I fail to stress that we are counting on good cooperation. I recently met a colleague in Morocco. That Convention also allows cooperation on the seizure of alleged criminal assets in the framework of the looted investigation. The two Conventions with the Emirates provide an efficient and modern legal framework for cooperation in criminal matters with the necessary safeguards. The Treaties enable the judicial authorities to better detect, prosecute and punish criminals who have been or have not been convicted of criminal activities in Belgium from Dubai through legal aid and extradition requests. Our prosecutors have an international section consisting of employees and magistrates who pass the outgoing and outgoing legal aid requests. This international cooperation is further coordinated by the federal prosecutor, supported by the direct international co-operation of the federal police which can boast of a network of liaison officers abroad. That system has recently been positively evaluated. At European level, Eurojust and Europol shall coordinate their activities. The serious organised criminal activity is, by definition, cross-border. So must our police and judicial approach. These are not hollow slogans, but reality, as demonstrated in the Sky ECC file, where there is a joint investigation team and an operational task force with different countries. The government has already strengthened the courthouses with additional magistrates, additional lawyers, criminologists and additional administrative staff. On the basis of the analysis of the translated judgment, it was found that the court in Dubai mistakenly assumed that the Belgian arrest warrants were no longer valid. In one of the cases, the offense was pronounced. However, that was without prejudice to the other two arrest warrants, each time in other files. The Emirates did not make any prior communication on the defence's arguments, so we were unable to formulate a reply in time to indicate that the other two arrest warrants were perfectly valid. Mrs De Wit, as regards your third and fourth questions, you will understand that I do not comment on individual, concrete and ongoing dossiers. In general, I can say that the Antwerp District Council is very committed to the pursuit of drug criminals, even if they are hiding abroad. Two extradition requests are currently addressed to the United Arab Emirates on the basis of two arrests made. There's another third extradition request in the making. In addition, there are several Interpol Red Notices regarding persons suspected of staying in the United Arab Emirates. If arrests are made, then, of course, extradition requests will follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u3	Mr. Secretary, you won't be surprised that I keep hammering on this nail. You say that the public prosecutors have already been strengthened and I will not deny that initiatives have already been taken in this area, but you will also be fully aware of the very interesting hearings that have taken place in the Chamber with the College of Attorneys General, the Federal Prosecutor and the Federal Police in connection with the distress call for lack of resources and manpower. In fact, next week or in two weeks, we will have an opportunity to come back to that in detail. The treaty dates back to December 2021, if I recall correctly. You say that you wish to take initiatives to ensure that it is ratified quickly, but I wonder why steps have not been taken immediately after the conclusion of that treaty, in such an important dossier that specifically concerns our country and Antwerp in particular. I really hope that the treaty will be ratified before the recess, so you will have to hurry. I assume the lyrics are ready. You have a month and a half to guide the Treaty through Parliament, because the problem is and remains serious. You're talking about alleged drug criminals. As long as they are not convicted, you are indeed more or less obliged to say so, but you and I both know that it is completely different in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u4	Minister, I do not wish to undermine the work done by services or magistrates in the drafting of a treaty. You can't misunderstand me in that. However, if it is not ratified, it is not obvious to implement it either. You may call that an empty box too much, but it is a problem. It would be nice if this happened soon. It is now the end of June, some time has passed. Secondly, I assume that our magistrates and investigators will take these files seriously. That's why they pulled the alarm bell. It's a chain. Magistrates say they're in trouble with the investigations. Federal police say it's not working anymore. Soon it will be the local police who will have to take over and say that it is no longer possible. It is time to approach this differently and make sure that we not only take the investigations seriously, but also effectively have the means to carry them out and catch the bad guys wherever they are, in Dubai or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u5	Mrs Dillen, it must first be clarified that there are always two communication systems in each prison, so that there is always a back-up if there are problems with a system. The problems you are referring to are about a classic telephone exchange on which wireless telephones, called DECT devices, are connected. In a few prisons, including Hasselt's, there is a problem that the telephone exchange still works but that it must be replaced by a new installation. The ICT staff is currently working on a framework contract to renew telephone exchanges, with renewed telephony. Hasselt is on the list of prisons where telephone stations should be replaced as a matter of priority. This is scheduled for next year. Pending a new plant, a maintenance company takes care of the plant in Hasselt.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for the short answer. You say that there are two communication systems in each prison so that there is a backup in case one of the two systems fails. I suppose this walkie-talkie system is one of those two communication systems to which you refer. You say that Hasselt is a priority, but that is where people really sit with their hands in their hair. The problem will not be solved until next year. Isn't there any possibility of taking the necessary steps to solve this problem before?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u7	I have already replied that the maintenance company will ensure that the current system is working again. I do not know if you are familiar with the way in which a framework contract is drawn up with the government, but that takes some time. Unfortunately, that is the reality. In the private sector, the problem would have been solved long ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u8	Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u9	Mrs Van Hoof, in the context of her legal duties, the security of the State is indeed paying attention to any clandestine activities of the Rwandan intelligence service on our territory. If the Security of the State collects or obtains information about a possible threat against a person on our territory, the competent administrations and security partners shall be informed accordingly. As far as your second question is concerned, there are indeed occasional complaints about intimidation in the Rwandan diaspora. Of course, as you know, I cannot comment on individual dossiers. Although the Security of the State is familiar with the phenomenon of the Rwandan death squads, there is currently no information indicating the presence of such squadrons in our country. I can confirm that there is indeed an investigation. I cannot comment on this further. We had an interesting exchange of views here months ago, including with you, on the use of Pegasus by some regimes. You called that frightening, if I remember correctly. I share your opinion when such intrusive material is used outside a strict legal framework that departs from the rule of privacy of every citizen. So far there is no bilateral or multilateral cooperation agreement between our country and Rwanda in the field of justice. Cooperation between the two countries is therefore based on the general provision of Article 873 of the Code of Justice. For all letters issued through diplomatic channels between the two countries, the judicial authorities must go to the Minister of Justice or his delegate. Requests for cooperation shall be carried out on the basis of the principle of locus resit actum. This means that Belgian law applies to the execution of requests from Rwanda and vice versa. All rogatory letters drawn up or executed so far have been strictly complied with by Belgian law and the Belgian procedure. That is why there is no need for an evaluation of that process at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u10	Minister, on Zembla, called the Pano of the Netherlands, this month there was a report on the support of Justice by the Dutch government which has pumped in 140 million since the genocide. That was right, because there was nothing left in the field of legal system, training of lawyers, the construction of prisons, the training of magistrates. More than 25 years later, we can say through the Rusesabagina process that this has failed. It is now quite a scandal in the Netherlands because Dutch development cooperation has pumped so much into the legal system over there, without it being possible to say on the basis of reports that we are dealing with a rule of law. On the contrary, it is an authoritarian, autocratic, dictatorial regime. Often we still feel that we are facing a victim of the genocide, but in the long run we are also becoming more persecutive. With that double role, the West is clearly having a hard time; things are happening that are really not acceptable. I therefore continue to ask questions so that we show the necessary caution. There is no place for civil society, either opposition or free media. All our agreements, for example in the field of development cooperation, must directly benefit the people and not support the system. As far as justice is concerned, these are not agreements but rogatory letters based on Article 178. That is acceptable, but hopefully it will remain so. All our initiatives and measures must be tested against the principles of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. More than ever, they're under threat. I think it is our duty to remain correct with regard to Rwanda, which is a country with which we feel some shame. I put my question to the authors of the Zembla programme, the Dutch version of Pano, because it is very difficult to support justice in Rwanda at the moment. I'll get the answers. Rusesabagina's family also managed to convince the US Congress to stop supporting Rwanda. My personal opinion is that in the long term we must also take this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u11	Minister, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u12	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, after the announcement that we have welcomed, the reality is catching up with you! The president of the College of Courts and Courts has sent you a letter in which she makes an alarm about the underfunding of the Justice. A budget of €3.6 million was allocated to replace retiring judges. According to the press, this allows 21 judges to be replaced, while 54 will leave this year. The same applies to judicial staff: 40 replacements will be funded while 121 will actually leave. According to the firm, the fault would be an increase in the salaries of support staff, resulting in a reduction in the possibilities for engagement. So we're back with the question of underfunding the essential commitments, not to mention the managerial increases that we've been asking for for years! In addition, the Social Secretariat PersoPoint, which has taken over the management of the justice staff, has been the subject of multiple complaints since it took over the case last February. So anger is growing more than ever, while many hopes were placed in the announcements you made about the recruitment of magistrates and judicial personnel. Let us not underestimate the extent of this anger, but also the discouragement and exhaustion of the people concerned! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, do you confirm what has been reported in the press? What explanations can you give us? What measures are being taken and should be taken to meet this replacement deficit for judges and judicial personnel? What are the explanations for dissatisfaction with the Social Secretariat? What will be the solutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u13	Minister, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I would first like to refer to what Vice-President of the Courts and Courts, Mr Bart Willocx, said on the radio last week. Maybe you heard. He said that justice is a department that has been chronically underfunded for years and that there is finally a refinancing of justice. In concrete terms, this means that last year and this year we were able to recruit 800 additional people from the judicial system. Of these, 630 have already been recruited today, 60 magistrates and 570 people for the judicial staff. Of the 800 places promised, 78.75 % has already been filled in and started. Of course there is a second refinancing coming for the next two years, 2023 and 2024. That's the situation. The consultation with the College which took place on May 16th was long planned. As you know, we meet regularly. In fact, there are two discussions that are sometimes confused. The first discussion concerns the allocation of funds and the number of vacancies that have been declared open but not yet filled. The second discussion concerns the margins for the new job vacancy plan. I'd like to clarify things a little. Firstly, on the second point, I can state that the margin that has been released for a subsequent wave of vacancies is actually quite limited. Why is that? There's a SEPP monitoring. I am sorry that it is becoming somewhat technical, but I am trying to explain. The SEPP monitoring is a monitoring based on the projection of the salary costs of all staff employed during a given reference month. This projection is compared to the available appropriations. The higher the number of employees at the time, the smaller the margin will be for launching new initiatives. For the time being, it can be seen that the efforts already made in 2021 for additional recruitment have an impact on the determination of the margin. In concrete terms, the most recent SEP monitoring indicates that the projection was calculated on the basis of a workforce of 11,085 full-time equivalents, compared with 10,781 in 2020 and 10,560 in 2019. Thus, currently 522 full-time equivalents more than in 2019 work in the judiciary, representing a 5% increase in the workforce. Saying there's fewer people working isn't right. There's more people working. In addition, several job vacancies have already been launched and are in progress. In total, 41.1 million are reserved for ongoing proceedings under the previous decision. There are 74 open vacancies for judges and 134 for clerks. It is true that some of these vacancies have not yet been filled because of the lack of candidates. What is the frustration of the magistrate, among others by President Willocx of the Court of First Instance in Antwerp, which I understand very well? We have opened up all these vacancies and many have not been filled. Until we open vacancies again, we'll be holding hands for months. What is the result of the consultation we had with the magistrate? We agreed to re-publish all those unfilled sites in June, so faster than expected. As a result, the more than 70 legal trainees who are at the end of their internship in September, but also those who have passed the professional examination, of which we will soon know the figures, can all apply for these vacancies. That will ensure that we have more than 100 potential candidates. This is an opportunity that meets one of the main concerns of the President of the College of Courts and Courts, namely that we must ensure that these vacancies are filled more quickly. Another element explains why the margin will be smaller than originally thought. The judicial staff's financial career provides for the periodic award of bonuses based on the award of successive favourable assessments. The last SEP monitoring took into account the granting of the second bonus to judicial staff. The pecuniary valuation of the latter obviously has a cost which is estimated at EUR 8 million on an annual basis. This amount is therefore no longer available for new posts. Then there's one more element that explains that smaller margin. We have already made a pre-requisite for the new set of judicial trainees. The start of 74 legal trainees was taken into account, with a cost of 3.2 million euros. That's an important post, because these internships are tomorrow's magistrates. They must ensure continuity. Under the "Strengthening of Justice" provision, funds remain to be allocated for 2023 and 2024. These are distributed through a parallel allocation procedure and are therefore not included in the latest SEP monitoring. In other words, the margin available does not reflect all the appropriations available for 2023 and 2024. Depending on new decisions on the provision, appropriations still need to be added. The move to PersoPoint resulted in a transfer of personnel credits. A total of 3.1 million was transferred from the Judicial Order personnel credits to SPF BOSA due to the transfer of staff or new recruitments to PersoPoint. Finally, SEPP monitoring is a continuous and dynamic one. On the basis of the May expenditure, a recalculation of all variables is again foreseen to bring about an update of the operational margin available. We are currently considering with the administration whether further optimizations for the faster opening of vacancies can be carried out in the short term. Mrs Matz, my administration is in constant contact with PersoPoint to improve the system. Under the authority of SPF BOSA, PersoPoint focuses primarily on the management of federal personnel records. The integration of atypical careers for the judicial order into a system is not evident. That transfer took place at the beginning of 2022. There are indeed a lot of childhood diseases. Persopoint underestimated the specificity and complexity of the judicial order. Of course, my services and the staff of the FPS Justice Department are on top of this file. We also urge BOSA and my colleague De Sutter to provide better and faster services to the judicial system.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is, of course, correct that justice comes from a period of under-financing and that there are more resources at the moment. However, you will also understand that the expectations were very high and that they were somewhat higher after your announcements. You have also explained that there is a margin for new vacancies and for opening up future vacancies. Apparently this is met after inter alia a meeting with the magistrate. I hope you'll deal with the problems. After all, as you know, without sufficient magistrates and staff, justice will never become faster, more criminal or more human. We are, of course, continuing the debate in our committee. Soon we will receive the College of Courts and Courts to discuss the workload measurement and the first announced results. I also hope that the existing children's diseases of the Persopoint system will be dealt with quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for these answers. Indeed, in the Committee on Justice we have begun a fairly broad debate on the attractiveness of the office of magistrate, with various points. Initial hearings are planned on the workload. As a follow-up, we will proceed in a broader manner with the representatives of the judiciary. I can't quite understand what you're saying. You say that the more we engage the world, the more it costs. The following year's envelopes are therefore reduced by capacity. There's nothing very surprising about that. It's not an unexpected thing. I therefore do not understand very well why this has not been programmed. It could be said that there were more people and therefore it would cost more the year that would follow and reduce the room for manoeuvre for engagement. We know this is a big debate. We know you're not responsible for this basic underfunding. But it is true that your repeated announcements raise a lot of hope and expectations from the protagonists. We must therefore also live up to these expectations. With regard to the secretariat, we hope that your administration will be able to deal quickly with the shortcomings that are currently noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u17	Mr Minister, you have started with a quote from Mr Willocx, the President of the Court of First Instance in Antwerp. I listened to the whole interview and it was just a short quote in which he said he was happy that there would finally be a refinancing. In addition, it was also said very clearly: "The situation is serious. There's far too much work for too few people. That weighs on the organization." Further in the interview he also said: "Attraction has to do with the content of the job. One must be able to offer perspective." In other words, there was clearly a cry for help from the courts and courts. Now, I am pleased that I have heard that you have entered into consultation immediately after this. That is a good thing, and we will certainly support it. In a rule of law, it is very important that justice works well and that the service is not compromised. Minister, you spoke about filling in new posts because there was a cry for help because a number of posts were not manned. There is, however, an additional problem which I have not heard from you, particularly the failure at the moment. Of course, that is something that needs to be taken into account. Filling open vacancies is, after all, one thing, but if there is also a major loss at the same time, attention must also be paid to this. In any case, you can count on our support to deal with this problem within the Justice Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u18	Madam President, Minister, as part of an improvement in the care of litigants, the government agreement provides that: "The government will also assess opportunities to improve access and the quality of legal aid available to vulnerable audiences facing a multitude of legal and social problems. Within this framework, a cross-cutting and multidisciplinary approach will be considered. Pilot projects will also be possible." Since May 2019, there has been an ASBL in Brussels called "Casa Legal". This is the first ASBL of lawyers created in Belgium. In a model comparable to that of a medical home, the ASBL offers multidisciplinary accompaniment for litigants: legal, psychosocial and administrative. In interviews, often with at least one lawyer, the social service also provides advice and information on social issues, such as housing, social rights, training and literacy issues, and links with other stakeholders such as psychologists or social workers from other associations and accommodation centres. Casa Legal also highlights alternative ways of resolving conflicts. This support seems more adapted to the realities of the field in the face of people who face multiple, interconnected and sometimes inextricable difficulties. These include victims of domestic and domestic violence, psychological or social vulnerability, victims of civil or criminal proceedings, victims of human trafficking or asylum seekers. The sustainability of this type of project appears to be more than desirable, but the question of its financing arises, as legal aid does not strictly provide for this type of intervention. Minister, can you take stock of the progress made in this area or the pilot projects under way? Is the Ministry of Justice in contact with the SABL Casa Legal? Does this project receive government support? Are legal aid changes planned to better take this type of structure into account? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u19	Dear colleague, as I mentioned in my policy statement of 4 November 2020, the accessibility of justice, including for the most vulnerable, is extremely important. We want justice that everyone understands, and that everyone can rely on, regardless of the level of income. The impact of the law of 31 July 2020 - the so-called Van Hecke law - can only be definitively assessed by 2024 at the earliest. On 23 September this year, these ceilings will rise again. In addition, many recently opened files are still pending. We will carry out this evaluation in close collaboration with counsel. In addition, the intention was to assess the possibilities of legal aid for vulnerable populations facing a multitude of legal and social problems. I cited the example of the Vlinderpaleis in Antwerp, where a common reception has been set up, where litigants can apply for legal aid, second-line help and well-being. In the meantime, this initiative has done more than its proof. The one taken by the ASBL that you mention deserves our full attention. Of course, it goes much further than second-line legal aid itself. My firm has already made contact with the heads of this organization. The initiative was also presented to my administration. The theme was discussed at the SPF Justice conference held last November: "Access to Justice: Digitalisation and Social Inclusion." Of course, the extent to which such initiatives can be funded by the federal government or, more specifically, the FPS Justice needs to be further examined. The Communities are, to a large extent, holders of customizable skills - including front-line legal aid. I am also planning to consult my colleague from Pensions and Social Integration. In addition, lawyers' associations are key partners in this area. It is therefore my intention to involve them. I asked the President of the Justice FPS and his teams to take the necessary steps and contacts to fuel the reflection and to see how the "Casa legal" project could materialize.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u20	Minister, thank you for all the attention you have on this issue. As you said yourself, it is essential to be able to access justice. Increasing the legal aid ceilings is obviously a good initiative. However, this is an additional step, providing for more comprehensive care. I am pleased to hear that your administration has contacted the NBA in question, but this may be another. You should see to what extent you could provide them with significant support. When dealing with the problems in their entirety, it appears that vulnerable audiences combine them in medical, social and rental terms, not to mention their incomprehension of certain rules. So this is an additional chance for them to get out of the precarious. We are following this issue with interest, because we believe that it is exploring a path complementary to that of legal aid. Therefore, we will not fail to come back to you to verify the fruitfulness of these contacts and to see to what extent you can support these initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u21	Minister, on Monday 9 May it was announced that there will be a new royal decree which will largely prohibit gambling advertising. Gambling advertising should no longer be allowed on TV and radio, on websites and social media, in newspapers and magazines and on posters in the street. The aim of this is to protect especially younger players. The sports sponsorship would also be banned by 2024. According to the latest reports, the KB has been sent to the Council of State for advice and notified to Europe. However, the opposition of the government party MR was already heard by President Bouchez. Later, the Prime Minister also called you back and stated that an agreement was needed from the entire government. Is there going to be a new QB that will restrict gambling advertising? What will be the prohibition? Will the KB differ from the draft already sent to the Council of State? If so, in what sense? Finally, do all government parties agree with your intention to increase player protection?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u22	Minister, the royal decision in question came about in a self-righteous way, without Parliament's participation. You belong to the executive and we to the legislature. We were working on the theme in the Chamber. In-depth debates were held here in February. Then spontaneous advice came in. The parliamentary initiative was then put on hold and suddenly, poof, there is a royal decision. The Prime Minister, your fellow party member, then made an emotional appeal to protect vulnerable people and to stop constantly putting advertising in the face of young people. We fully agree with that, but what about the perfide attitude towards the National Lottery? If I get five commercials a day catapulted in my face, it comes from the National Lottery. Why is it completely out of the question? Will you reduce the royal decision, hold a thorough debate with all the actors in the Committee on Justice and come forward with a supported proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u23	First of all, your criticism that I am not presenting the royal decision to Parliament is rather surprising to me, Mrs Bury. Laws are dealt with in Parliament, royal decrees in the government. Sometimes a royal decision is discussed in the Council of Ministers, sometimes a royal decision is issued by a minister. There are also ministerial decisions. Those are the basic rules. So we can talk about a royal decision in Parliament, but the decision on a royal decision is not taken in Parliament. Mr D'Haese, I would like to begin by thanking you for your contribution, with the content of the Royal Decree. First of all, the number of gambling addicts is increasing sharply, which is particularly worrying among young people. Secondly, there is a proven link between gambling advertising and gambling behavior. A study commissioned by Test Purchase and the Family Association has shown that 11% of the countrymen who at that time did not participate in any gambling in any way, under the influence of advertising, say they want to take a chance in the future. In the case of students, this figure is 14.8 % and in the case of jobseekers up to 28.9 %. In addition, the more intense the gambling behavior, the more players are influenced by advertising messages. More than half, 56%, of the intensive players, took a guess following a bonus offered, 46 % after an email from a gambling company and 39 % after watching online gambling advertising. Because of these facts, I want to chain up gambling advertising. Yesterday, by the way, I met the two fathers who gave a catchy testimony in the Seventh Day program. One of those fathers lost his son to suicide because of a gambling addiction, the other father almost lost his son. Those fathers have shown me which e-mails were systematically sent by a gambling company to their sons; terrifying. Day after day they are bombed, for example with extra bonuses, to keep playing. My vision is clear. Only those who actively seek information about gambling and want to gamble will get that information. For the rest, I want to put an end to the ubiquitous presence of gambling advertising in our society. Gambling advertising not only encourages play or more intensive play, it normalizes and bans gambling, although it is ultimately a potentially dangerous activity. Now I come to the questions about the conclusion of the royal decree. I didn't go ice cream in one night. The debate has been dragging on for years, for example, in the previous government. We have obtained advice from the FPS Health and the High Health Council. By the way, the Supreme Health Council is literally asking for a total ban on gambling advertising, as shown by his report on gambling disorders. Organisations such as the Flemish Centre of Expertise have been a party to a total ban on gambling advertising for years. I therefore believe that we must make clear choices. At the meeting of the Justice Commission on 9 February 2022, an amendment was tabled to remove the total ban on gambling advertising from Mr Van Hecke's bill. The motivation used for this was the following. "In his policy paper, the Minister of Justice states that we limit gambling advertising and tighten the rules, so that it is handled responsibly. On 27 January, the Minister announced in the plenary session that the tightening would take place this year. The final piece is the entanglement of the gambling ad. It is not possible for everyone to be exposed to the lure of gambling everywhere and continuously, especially not vulnerable people and young people. In that respect, I promise you will be entangled. This Article is therefore deleted in order to give full scope to initiatives that the Minister of Justice will take within the current legislation." That motivation does not in any way suggest that the issue of gambling advertising was put on hold, quite the contrary. I promised at the committee meeting on 27 January and in the plenary session of 26 June 2021 that I would restrict gambling advertising and I will keep that promise. Mrs Bury, past experience has shown that consultation with the sectors to which you refer, however well-intentioned, has only led to measures in the margins that have not produced the desired result. Look at what's happened over the past few years. In 2018, my predecessor already issued a royal decree restricting the content of the advertising. The Royal Decree also provides that advertising must not be aimed at minors. Despite that regulatory initiative and the protocol to which the Pro League refers, there was never as much advertising as last year. I have been questioned on several occasions in the committee by colleagues Depraetere and Van Hecke, but also by colleague Jadin. You know which party Mrs. Jadin belongs to. In September 2021, she asked me about my sports sponsorship plans by gakoperators. It then pointed out that Spain, Italy and the United Kingdom had already assumed their responsibilities and wondered when Belgium would take initiatives. I announced at the time that I would do things, which is why the texts of the draft Royal Decree were submitted to the European Commission. As soon as the advice is in, we'll go to the Council of State and we'll discuss these matters in the government. I note that six of the seven parties fully support this. Some parties even consider that I am not yet strict enough, that I have to be even stricter, but we have certainly found that we will not question the substance of the decision. As far as the question on the National Lottery is concerned, my colleague, Mr Mahdi, has said that he is prepared to take initiatives on the advertising policy of the National Lottery. Slogans such as "Become scandalously rich" will hopefully soon be a thing of the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u24	Minister, I will distinguish three parts in your reply. Firstly, there is your emotional-effective approach to the matter, which was shared by the Prime Minister in plenary. We can only endorse your considerations in this regard. That, of course, is not enough. Secondly, there is the technical and legal part. The matter has been notified to Europe and the text will come back, after which you will submit the file to the Council of State for advice. Thirdly, there is the political aspect. You will undoubtedly have been briefed on our debate on the subject in committee yesterday. Now, it is very painful that while you have met these fathers and we are fighting from the opposition for the file to move forward, you are from my point of view on the withdrawal, the amendment No. 4 by Mr Van Hecke, for the reasons for your reply. That's odd. If you look at who signed that amendment, you will see the political problem. That amendment was signed by Nathalie Gilson, who belongs to the seventh party, who is completely unwilling in the debate and who is pushing things forward. There are two possibilities. Either you have seduced Mrs Gilson politically or you have misguided her, or it is rien ne va plus, in the sense that nothing is marching anymore. We will follow that closely. We are looking at this with interest; in any case, there is a big difference between what you do and what the victims receive and the work in committee, where it actually does not progress very well. That will be thrown at you a few more times critically by our party. That is not your fault, but it is up to the government to take a stand on this. That does not require six parties, but seven parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u25	Mr Minister, first and foremost, we can discuss what you can do with a KB. I am aware that a KB takes precedence over what we do in committee, but is it a question of fully restricting advertising legislation under implementing rules, or is it a debate best dealt with by Parliament and not settled in an KB? You say that you want to chain up the gambling ad and you will not give way, and you are talking about Mr Jadin. However, as Mr D'Haese said earlier, it is not our problem that you cannot control a coalition partner. People are talking about friction. Think about forming a coalition with the right parties at the next government formation and reconsider the cordon sanitary so that you can present a supported proposal with the right people. Finally, I did not receive an answer to my question about the National Lottery. After the slogan Become scandalously rich, there is now a lot of publicity around the Vikinglotto. I signed myself into the National Lottery app. I am amazed at the amount of notifications with the most appealing slogans I receive every day to encourage me to participate in the games of the National Lottery. You say that your colleague Mahdi will take the initiative and that the use of such slogans should be considered. That's all talk for the often. Why is the National Lottery completely out of the question? If the protection of vulnerable groups is really the responsibility of the government, then that must also be examined. However, you do not give me an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u26	Debates of the European Parliament 55027935C by Mrs Jadin will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u27	Madam President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u28	Mrs Dillen, we will soon be discussing the bill that Justice wants to make more human, faster and more criminal in Parliament. Then we will enter into the debate with you. The aim is to regulate the execution of all penalties, but it is also intended to make it impossible in the new Criminal Code to pronounce sentences under six months, except for the replacement sentences. We will try to coordinate both matters as closely as possible. The discussion will follow when we discuss the draft law on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u29	Minister, I thought it was necessary to ask this question. After all, both during the discussions here in committee and during the plenary session, I specifically asked this question. I'm sure you'll remember that. You are referring to the fact that the new Criminal Code is in place and you are now telling us that there will be no punishments under six months, with the exception of the replacement sentences. I am still concerned that there is a gap between the law we passed in Parliament last week regarding the short prison sentences - I am not going to go back to that because you know our beach point in this matter - and the time when the new Criminal Code will be adopted in Parliament. There is no draft yet, let alone a start can be made on a discussion in committee. We both know that this will be a dossier in which a lot of time will be invested. The committee will not be able to do that in one afternoon. So there remains a gap between the law that was passed two weeks ago and the Criminal Code. I do not think it is unimportant that a measure should be taken in the event of urgency. I told you about the debate in plenary. I can imagine that my colleagues advise their clients not to carry out work sentences or alternative sentences: after all, there is a prison sentence which is only very short, from 15 days to a maximum of six months, and which is not being carried out. It is very important to tackle this form of impunity. If not, it discourages the magistrates who, for good reasons, impose public service sentences to give the accused a chance, but also realize that those penalties can lead to nothing if you do not take any initiative. I would therefore ask you once again to consider the possibility of providing for a settlement pending the new Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u30	Madam President, first of all, I apologise for the long answer, but the Rules of Procedure allow this. It is true that prisons, particularly in Flanders and Brussels, and especially in the detention houses, are faced with a high level of overpopulation. Its distribution between prisons in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia and the placing of bunk beds is an important measure to provide a temporary response in the short term to the CPT's request to give a bed to all ground sleepers within three months. This has already been discussed extensively in the Committee of 12 January 2022. I never said that the problem would be solved by placing these bunk beds, quite the contrary. I have always stressed that it is a temporary emergency measure. In addition, further work is being carried out on the construction of new prisons and the expansion of capacity in existing prisons, as foreseen in the master plan. I have ensured that capacity remains available in the old prison of Saint Gillis until late 2024 and in the old prison of Dendermonde until the opening of the FPC in Aalst. A total of 350 places. There will be a phased execution of the short sentences, as I have said before. With regard to your second question, there are several factors, both internal and external, but also in relation to the detainees, which may lead to delays in a dossier. The PSD in Bruges prison was confronted with absenteeism due to illness. In addition, recruitment and selection procedures are ongoing for a number of open spaces. At the same time, there is a delay in receiving judicial files. As a result, progress can be made there, but not everything can be done, such as risk assessment. There are also delays in receiving external surveys from the justice houses. They can go up to several months. The Prisoners were formally informed of this. On top of that, the current overpopulation in the institutions has an impact on the lead times, increasing the number of files to be handled per employee. Every effort is being made to finish the files as efficiently as possible and to respect deadlines. As I said, selection procedures are ongoing. There are very long waiting lists for certain services of the federated entities. This applies, for example, to the Centers for Mental Health Care, where the waiting period can take several months. The VDAB currently has a call stop and the JWW is currently recording very few files. Consequently, inmates can only call on the staff of the local PSD, who are already over-questioned. Specifically, it is about filling out tax letters, establishing contacts for social housing, drawing up probation plans, looking for work. The overcrowding, the lack of appropriate assistance in the parole process and insufficient provision of assistance in turn cause frustration among detainees, who then request calls from the PSD to rightly complain about this. The amendment of the domestic regulations is a long-term work. First of all, the general part of the internal rules, which contains provisions applicable in all prisons, should be evaluated, reworded and supplemented. This is a very important exercise, as the general part of the domestic rules reflects the policy pursued by the Prisoners, with the maximum aim of ensuring the uniform application of rules that are important in the daily lives of detainees, regardless of what prison they are in. Subsequently, the particular part of the Regulation, which provides for specific rules, should also be brought into line with the general part. The service responsible for coordinating the whole is simultaneously confronted with other urgent priority tasks, so that the process is slower than expected. In the meantime, the existing domestic regulations will of course remain in force. A lot of prison processes and procedures are not digitized, so data cannot be generated automatically. This means that numbers have to be collected manually, which is a time-consuming activity. The current Sidis Suite database allows very little data extraction. Fortunately, the development of a new database for the management of the detention of the detainees is about to begin, allowing more information to be generated in the future. The new programme is intended to be ready for this legislative period. However, it is not the case that there is no information available, as is evident from the answers to the rather numerous questions that are being asked to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u31	Minister, the bunk beds are an emergency measure. The expansion of capacity is the solution here. The question clearly showed that these are not my words, but all literal quotes from the annual report. If you add the annual report yourself, you will find that I have quoted it without changing a letter or a point. The increase in capacity is therefore the message here. It is not, to a large extent, your responsibility, but I am concerned by your reply. The question put is in the interests of the future of the detainees. You are talking about very long waiting lists which are mainly at the level of competence of the Communities and delays of several months. I therefore understand that prisoners are frustrated when their files cannot be dealt with. Perhaps it is also important, and perhaps you have already done so, to urge, in consultation with your fellow Members of the Communities, that initiatives be taken there to provide more manpower and resources, so that the individual dossiers can be dealt with further. Finally, I understand that a new domestic regulation is a long-term work and not an obvious one, and that there are several aspects that make this complicated, but do you have any idea when this can be expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u32	I will give you the answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u33	We have not heard from Mrs Gabriels.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u34	Minister, the law on forced co-ownership provides for owners to have their own loading posts installed if they follow the proper procedure. Of course, there may be some drawbacks to those individual installations compared to something common. An individual charging pole also has an effect on capacity consumption. In the case of a later capacity tariff, this may also cause problems. Also, co-ownership is usually not able to charge a lot of different cars at the same time, which is not balanced. Of course, other installations must be able to continue to operate, e.g. the elevator. If people have put in an individual loading post and there is a proposal to do something in common afterwards, will those people still be willing to pay for a common installation if they have already incurred costs themselves? I am still silent about Fluvius' adjustment of the net, because that also costs a lot of money. Then it will be very difficult to find a majority for such a collective loading infrastructure. In addition, these individual charging posts are not always properly installed. Let me give you the example of a case where it was simply taken from the fluorescent lighting in the garage. In order to give co-owners better access to modern energy and telecommunications resources, a legal right to build this infrastructure was provided in 2018. That right is wider than just the possibility to install a charging pole, there are a number of other things in it. If we take into account the introduction of the capacity rate and the evolving technology for loading, would it not be better for an association of co-owners to amend Article 3.82 so that a common infrastructure becomes the standard? What information have you received so far from syndici? How do you feel about a change of law in this sense?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u35	Mr Wollants, the experiences reported to me correspond to those described by Mrs Gabriels in her question, namely the wild installation of individual loading posts in private car parks located in apartment buildings. It is important that the existing mandatory procedure laid down in Article 3.82 of the Civil Code is correctly applied. That Article provides for a unilateral right of change if and only if the procedure is correctly applied. In the event of a misapplication of the mandatory process of change, whether or not in bad faith, the court of peace may always be asked to remedy. Moreover, individual initiatives should not jeopardise the interests of other co-owners. In other words, it is important that co-owners are aware that individual initiatives to install loading posts must be balanced against safe, collective solutions. Therefore, I would like to stress once again that co-owners cannot derive an absolute right from Article 3.82 of the Civil Code to install individual loading posts in private parking spaces. It is forbidden to install ramps in the wild within forced co-properties without involving the collective in making a substantiated, responsible and safe decision. Which brings me to your point about security risks and grid capacity. Both aspects are fundamental in the assessment of the problem and the direction in which policy in this area is developed. It is also arguments that co-owners can argue against the individual project of one of them. The network capacity can be seen as a limit. In case of insufficient capacity, the story stops for other co-owners as regards placing individual or common loading posts. The safety risks are a more relative limit, given the absence of a uniform legal framework on fire safety for loading posts in apartment buildings. That is why there is a need for uniformity. This is currently being investigated by the Department of Home Affairs. It asked the High Council for Protection against Fire and Explosion to examine the situation and to consider what rules could be drawn up to meet it. Today there is a code of good practice of Fireforum for fire zones, but it is being considered to translate them into regulation. However, it would not be proportionate for the co-owners to oppose an individual project that offers all security guarantees without proposing a collective alternative. In this case, the co-owner should be competent to place a loading post. If the co-owners decide to place collective loading posts a few years later, they will have to take into account the existence of the individual loading pole. If the individual co-owner opposes a later collective solution, the other co-owners may appeal to the court under Article 3.92 § 8 on the abuse of a minority. It is therefore important that these issues be discussed with a long-term vision in the co-owners' meeting. Where such discussion does not lead to agreement, it is for the court to take a decision ensuring the balance between the rights of different co-owners. At this stage, therefore, an amendment to Article 3.82 of the Civil Code does not appear necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u36	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I'll study it further. I was already aware of a number of elements. After all, I suggested the adaptation or standardisation of loading posts by means of a written question to Minister Verlinden. She then set a number of things in motion, as you yourself have shown. There is also the question of capacity. The first, second and third loading posts will not pose any capacity-related problems, but at some point they will end up at the 20th loading posts, which may pose a problem. Then, of course, the discussions will begin. I fear that there will be many problems in terms of capacity. I do not think that court proceedings are the best way to prevent or regulate such cases as the government. We need to look at that carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u37	Minister, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u38	Mrs Dillen, the proposal of exponential increase was indeed explained to my services. The proposal has not yet been discussed at government level. The opinion of the specialised bodies has not yet been requested. At the moment, as agreed at the State General for Road Safety, we are focusing on the opportunities for packing, the identification of the offenders, the handling of repeaters, the handling of other infringements such as mobile phones behind the wheel and non-insured vehicles. You know where I am going with my policy on road safety. It is also often discussed in this committee. I am prepared to look at any proposal to improve road safety. I think that the increase in the chances of getting caught is the most effective way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u39	Minister, we all agree that road safety is particularly important. Too many people are still dying on the road and there are still far too many victims with severe physical damage. Betting on the chance of getting caught is important, but at the same time we need to raise awareness, Minister. A number of people continue to commit persistent violations and pay fines with pleasure. Some people do not even feel that in their wallets, and that is not conducive to road safety. I am pleased that you will enter into consultations to examine the possibilities. In any case, you already have the support of your party colleague, the Flemish Minister for Mobility. I assume that this dossier will be followed up in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u40	Debates of the European Parliament 55028119C and No. 55028120C of myself will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u41	Mrs Bury, on 21 February this year I invited a group of experts, consisting of academics, magistrates of the seat, prosecutors and lawyers, to hear their views on the consensus model currently being applied in the family court of Dinant. I recently asked them to extend their work to the issue of the place of the child in the trial, including the right to speak. Some have already responded enthusiastically. I'm still waiting for others to respond. The objective remains to start work in July 2022, and to have a report ready by spring 2023. This should result in a draft law. In the meantime, I will immediately arrange for the distribution within the family courts of the report of this day of study of the Children's Rights Commission. In response to your second question, a public contract was issued and awarded at the beginning of this year. The study is now under way. According to the law, the evaluation report must be delivered to the Court by 30 September 2023 at the latest.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. All the data is in there. Perfect. I also think it's wonderful that you're working on it. It was a very interesting meeting, with a good speech from your head of the cabinet, by the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u43	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u44	Yeah, sure. Also with the necessary humor and all that. That was nice. So the public contract runs until September 30, 2023? It was a little fast. You can register for the public contract for the evaluation of the family courts until 30 September 2023? Is that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u45	No, the government contract was issued and awarded at the beginning of this year. The study is now under way, and the final result will be delivered to the Chamber by 30 September 2023 at the latest.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u46	Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u47	Mrs De Wit, the first evaluation of the hotline is positive. 97 notifications were received through the anonymous hotline, 3 of which have effectively led to the discovery of a plantation. Many reports have also provided information that has been included in an information report and may be useful later. At present, 18 reports are still under investigation. The other reports are negative and closed without result, have been reported twice or not relevant in the context of the hotline. Almost 9,000 visitors have consulted the website, with a peak noted at the time of launch and at the first evaluation in March. The initiators have a communication plan ready so that the hotline can certainly gain name recognition. These are projects towards local government, where a ready-made text and infographics will be offered, but also towards local media and certain niches, such as groups of people who go out together with the mountain bike, on horseback or on foot. The initiators want to reach as many people as possible and, above all, trigger to report suspicious situations safely and anonymously. In addition to the existing hotlines in Antwerp and Limburg, such a hotline will soon be established in the province of Flemish Brabant. The anonymous drug notification point in Limburg was launched on 17 April 2019 with the aim of allowing citizens to use a free call number and to anonymously report a possible laboratory, plantation or dumping. For the period from 17 April 2019 to 8 March 2022 there were 878 notifications, of which 30% offers police added value, and 5 labs, 31 plantations and 1 dumping site were discovered. In the spring of 2020, about a year after the start of the hotline, Ghent University, led by Professor Colman, conducted a study on this anonymous drug reporting point and the problems of labs and plantations. This showed, among other things, that 73.9 % of respondents were willing to report a lab or plantation. Only 9.35% of respondents knew the hotline. The following initiatives have therefore been taken to increase the public's willingness to report and the awareness of an anonymous hotline to the general public. Firstly, information evenings are organised 'Smell it', where experience experts, such as the police, the federal police and the NICC, point out among others the dangers of drug production and the elements and signals that may indicate the presence of a lab. Secondly, a website was created so that from this date online notifications are also possible. Third, at the end of 2021, all Limburg vehicles, a total of 230, were equipped with a banner of the hotline. I can add that, in my opinion, it is good practice for public prosecutors where the need for these issues is high and which do not remain in the hands of the public, but seek solutions together with partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u48	Minister, I am glad that these initiatives, which often arise from the bottom up, often do well and can be repeated, also in other places. I'm glad it works.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic798x.u49	Debates of the European Parliament 55028072C, 55028073C, 55028074C and 55028075 by Mr Goffin and Question No 55028069C by Mrs Gabriels were postponed to another meeting. The other questions lapsed.
