ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u1	Madam Secretary, you received last week's report from the National Bank on a crisis contribution from the energy sector. In the report, the National Bank refers explicitly to the excess profits of the Belgian nuclear power plants. We must base ourselves on what we read in the press about this, in particular that according to the National Bank, skimming off the excess profits is extremely meaningful and timely. Your response to this was to finalise a proposal for skimming over profits. Madam Secretary, what is the conclusion of the National Bank? Has the excess profits been calculated and quantified? When will the government decide on skimming the profits? If that happens before 12 July, then a next committee meeting will be useful for the recess. What is the content of your proposal? Can you give me a hint of the veil yet? Are you focusing on all the gains? What percentage of overprofits is being skimmed? How will this work? When will this go into effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u2	Mr Warmoes, you are not the only one who has asked a lot of questions about this. Fourteen days ago, there was a debate on this in plenary. Then you announced, Madam Secretary, that you would come forward with a draft before the summer recess. Hence a number of questions. Where do you stand with the creation of an additional tax on high profits in the energy sector? What's this tax gonna look like? Is this a temporary or a one-off measure? How will you do that in the future? How much will the tax be expressed in percentages? From when will there be excess profit? Which energy producers will be subject to the tax? Will the tax work retroactively and, if so, from what date? How will you prevent over-profits from being considered as over-profits? When will the system be presented to the government and to Parliament? Do you have an overview of what type of energy producers are effectively making overprofits today and which producers are not overprofits?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u3	Madam Minister, we know that work has been started with the aim of establishing a crisis contribution of energy market players making significant profits. CREG, a law firm and the National Bank of Belgium (NBB) were consulted. Several lines of action were raised, either by CREG or by the law firm. A joint report from CREG and the BNB was due to be sent to you at the end of May, while an initiative was announced for June. On 16 June, you announced that you had received the report in question. In general, can we get your feedback on this document? You then announced that, for the BNB, taxing the profits of some electricity producers was not only significant but also timely. The press points out that, subject to a clear identification of exceptional profits, "a permanent system of taxation of over-profits that makes sense provided that it is intelligently designed, coherent or symmetrical over time, and that it targets the profits achieved beyond the required yield (those generated by an explosion of prices generated by external factors, including the war in Ukraine) would be privileged" by the BNB. Can we have your point of view on this measure? What criteria would be used to identify overprofits as part of your proposed overprofit taxation proposal to the government? Can we know whether this proposal will be in line with the suggestions made by the NBB? Furthermore, can we know which actors in the energy sector will be involved? Will they be operators of nuclear power plants, gas plants and renewable energy producers? To what extent will this initiative be adapted to the gains generated by these producers, as well as to the various commitments that bind them to the state? In this regard, we know that the Engie-Electrabel contract poses a problem with regard to an increase in the nuclear rent and in particular the allocation contribution. In addition, the wind farm is supported by the State under certain conditions, which, in the view of CREG, should be reviewed in view of the benefits currently received by operators during this period of energy price crisis. Will your proposal solve these problematic elements? Can the risk of recourse to the courts be excluded? Finally, I would like to learn more about the progress of work on this proposal. Have discussions within the government begun? If so, under what time frame can we wait for the publication of the text? In advance, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u4	Indeed, large profits are realised by a number of energy companies. The first question we need to ask ourselves is whether we have not helped by creating a shortage of supply ourselves. Ultimately, a price is the result of supply and demand. If supply decreases and demand continues to rise, prices will rise, even if the government tries to change the composition of supply through subsidy schemes. The real question is, in fact, whether we are not doing over-regulation in the energy market. I refer there to the very interesting interview with Professor Jan Eeckhout this weekend in De Standaard. In Barcelona he has a very good reputation and he has also received national and international attention with a paper on the market power of American companies. Among other things, he says: "Also subjugating competition to strategic importance is completely wrong. Because of the actions of a man in Moscow, we now threaten to return to the sixties. (...) Taking action on the energy price is not the solution. This makes market disruption worse rather than less severe, and it also subsidises dirty fossil energy." In Germany, your colleague has made a kind of alarm call, with the announcement of the reopening of coal power stations. In this whole discussion, is the question whether overprofits are effectively the crucial challenge? I understand the problem. In a normal market economy, which has ultimately created our prosperity, there are companies that want to make profits but who also accept that if it fails, if they are wrong with their product, services or their assessment of the market, they can make losses. We are now in a market that we want to keep under control, with the result that all companies operating there are no longer profit-seeking but rent-seeking. They want to do something, but the state has to guarantee them that they earn at least that much. Madam Secretary, how do you see that? What do you think of Professor Eeckhout's analysis?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u5	Is anyone else asking to speak in connection with this topical and urgent debate? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed this topic on several occasions, the most recent time in plenary two weeks ago, when I received the report from the National Bank. You have already questioned me at length on this issue, so you are aware of the history of this dossier. From September or October, when we saw that energy prices were rising, we questioned the CREG. Initially, prices increased due to the blurring of the economy post-corona and higher demand for energy from Asia. Mr President, I would like to mention this because I will come back to it in a moment in response to your specific questions. Prices rose systematically and then increased further as a result of the war. We have always asked the CREG to identify the potential excess profits and also the potential risks. We asked whether there are players in the energy sector who are dealing with greater risks. As you know, I have explained this question several times, and you have already received an explanation from representatives of the CREG. The conclusion is that there are indeed excess profits. The CREG also advised to do something about it. We were then confronted with the fact that an excess profit is neither legally nor economically defined. That has led us to put a question to the National Bank to help us on that point. A MP asks what is the conclusion of the National Bank, whether the National Bank has calculated and quantified the excess profits? The answer is no, the National Bank did not calculate it and did not quantify it. It is not in the competence of the National Bank, nor in its expertise. For this we have the CREG, the regulator, as it understands the costs of operators, fixed and operational costs and where profits can be reduced. That's the job the CREG did. We have asked the National Bank to help us by providing handles, guidelines or criteria so that we can deal with this. As you know, we are also faced with other aspects of the matter, which I have already explained in detail. The previous government has concluded agreements with ENGIE Electrabel, which means that no further valuation can be made. The two reports - that of the Electricity and Gas Regulatory Commission (CREG) and that of the BNB - confirm the existence of exceptional benefits. The CREG has calculated the benefits of certain market players and these figures have been shared within this committee. The NBB then stated in the report that it has provided us with the information that it would be appropriate to tax them. The European Commission and the European regulator have already indicated in the past that a redistributive measure is the least damaging to the current functioning of the market. A number of Member States have already opted for such a tax. Last time I said what we are looking at. We actually have most of the data in order to be able to deal with a concrete proposal. We look at the technical and legal feasibility of a single crisis contribution and inspire us to do so in Italy. We are, of course, in very close consultation with the services of the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Vincent Van Peteghem. Of course, an important part of the implementation of such taxes lies with his services. In the coming days, we will discuss further. In previous cases, we have already worked very successfully, in particular on the energy standard and the development of excise duty on energy bills. We are now working on the revision of that excise duty and the reform of excise duties combined with the reduction of VAT. In any case, I am going to the government first with my proposal, so I cannot go into all the details yet. I would like to answer a number of specific questions. With regard to the question of a temporary versus structural measure, the National Bank considers that a structural measure would be discussed earlier, but that a single measure could also be envisaged pending this. At the moment, we are on the path of a single measure, but our structural policy is of course of that nature in order to avoid over-profits at all times. For this, I refer to the payback obligation under the CRM, which actually eliminates pre-emptive excess profits. There has also been the revision in the context of wind at sea, for the latest parks. That had something to do with that. Then why is a one-off measure at this point? Because the combined reports of the CREG and the National Bank show that the excess profits are due to these very high prices. As regards the overview of the producers, which was mapped out by the CREG and explained here as well. I would, however, like to make a comment on the question of over-profits and on which producers are not there. The CREG did not count in the same way for all producers. In the framework of the gas plants, for example, the CREG works with a theoretical model, on the basis of which it diverts excess profits. I have asked the CREG for further follow-up in order to bring this back to concrete cases and plants. After all, it is also intended to come up with a robust proposal. Mr President, you are asking whether this has been facilitated by creating scarcity. I'm a little perplexed by that question. Prices have actually been rising since the summer of last year. There was no shortage in the summer, but there was a price problem. There was a higher demand and it has led to higher prices, but there was no scarcity. So far, no country within the European Union has asked for either electricity or gas to reduce consumption, nor has Germany. Germany has announced the alert phase in order to take a number of measures, e.g. the issuing of a savings tender in industry. However, no one has imposed today that there should be less consumption because of a shortage. However, it is encouraged to reduce consumption as a preventive measure, but there is no shortage in itself. There is no shortage in Belgium, nor in our neighbouring countries. The high prices for the war are explained by the higher energy demand in Asia, price driven, post-corona. Since the war, high prices have been explained because President Putin is using energy as a weapon and gradually reducing deliveries. We are seeing a very high volatility in the market. I would therefore like to make a link here with the EU Council, to which I participated yesterday. We have discussed the situation in Ukraine in detail there. The Italian Minister for Energy repeated what the Italian Prime Minister has often said: this is a war economy, a war economy. That's what we're in today. It was asked whether it was appropriate to intervene in the price. The answer is complete: yes. In normal circumstances, with normal market forces where supply and demand are more or less in balance, I would stay away from government intervention. However, in the current context, the market is not helping us at all. The prices are historically high today because on the other hand there is a dictator using energy as a weapon. Therefore, exceptional measures are appropriate. It is now absolutely important to intervene in the price. To continue at that point, I read the interview and I actually found it very interesting. By the way, the Energy Committee, together with the Finance Committee, has already started work to see whether marginal pricing, even in normal circumstances, is the right way to set prices. Does the marginal price setting that we know in normal circumstances ensure security of supply on the one hand and the achievement of the green target on the other? We know the answer to this question. For security of supply, many Member States, including Belgium, have a capacity remuneration mechanism to ensure that there are sufficient investments. The marginal price model today does not attract sufficient capacity to provide security of supply. In addition, almost all Member States have, or had, support mechanisms for most of the renewable energy technologies, for example under contract for differences. Apparently, the marginal price model does not ensure that these objectives are met. We need to think about what our price model looks like anyway. In a war situation, we must intervene in the price. Of course, we have to do it responsibly. Belgium is one of the pioneers on the European stage, with the Prime Minister in the lead, in setting up a common purchasing platform, on the basis of which Member States can aggregate their demand. For example, gas, LNG and in the future hydrogen can be purchased in the form of long-term contracts, with a fixed price index, i.e. the Henry Hub. In this way, we can create market stability and achieve a healthier mix of short and long-term contracts. That is a soft form of price regulation. The Prime Minister has always defended this, last Thursday and Friday. One of the first measures taken by this government was the extended social tariff. 20% of Belgians are entitled to the extended social tariff. In other words, 20% of Belgians have always been protected against price increases and have avoided poverty. KU Leuven and the National Bank have said that this is the most efficient measure. The social tariff is price regulation, which is intervention on the price and the price cap for a group of vulnerable users. The market is a good thing, the market has taught us a lot, but the market does not prevent poverty, the market does not always provide security of supply and the market does not always ensure that we can achieve the climate transition. This requires policies to expand the deadlines, to expand the horizon and to give the market the right push in the back and in the right direction. After this couplesthesis, I would also like to say that if the market does crazy things and if there are people who make historically high profits, at a time when a record number of Belgians cannot pay their invoices, we do indeed have a duty to intervene. We do indeed have a duty to look for a mechanism to do so in relation to these excess profits, which the CREG has calculated to be a reality and which the National Bank has indicated is a tax, as is the European Commission, ACER and the International Energy Agency. This will initially be a temporary measure, following the Italian example.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u7	Mr President, Minister, I have a reply in two times, since we are now also having a debate on the market, which was not really foreseen. We are still waiting for your concrete proposal to tax the excess profits. That was the focus of the discussion here. It's been nine months. You have listed them yourself: CREG, National Bank, Europe. I don't know how many green lights there are already. Again, I'd like to know when it's coming. It will be discussed by the government, we already know, but you haven't given a date. I hope that you will really do your job and that we will see it over the next few weeks or days. I thought you said before the recess. We shall then have to come back to that again. I can't say much more about that now. Then I get to the part about the market. We have been saying for some time now that not only is the marginal price model not good and not working, the market is not working. You are making a rather artificial distinction, I think. You said that the market is not helping us, so I fully agree between normal operation and abnormal market functioning. The offer hasn't changed. The cost of production has not increased. So what is happening now is pure speculation. The stock exchange works on the basis of speculation. This is part of the market forces. A distinction between these two seems to me to be a bit artificial. Of course, we need price regulation. We support you in that. We have made the proposal to block prices ourselves. I can join you in your discourse today, but you pretend there are other periods when the market is working well. That's where I have my doubts. So far, a number of considerations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u8	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. You have once again outlined the general framework. All the elements requested, the study of the National Bank and the advice of the CREG, are there. I understand that the concrete elements must, of course, first be discussed within the government. I understand that the timing is being maintained, i.e. before the summer. I look forward to the next steps, the decisions and the feedback to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answers. Of course, I hear you're reserving the first time to the government. Let me make three points. First of all, this over-profit measure must be truly ambitious and committed - as has been said and repeated - as soon as possible. Secondly, I would add that the revenue generated must be used to strengthen the aid currently granted to the population in order to cope with the rise in energy prices. Finally, the emphasis should be placed on the sustainability - and I would stress the word - of existing measures: the social tariff, VAT cuts, the introduction of a special tariff for the middle class, for example. Therefore, I am counting on you to ensure that these suggestions can find a positive response through your determination.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u10	Madam Secretary, everyone is, of course, reading what he wants to read in the response of the National Bank. I have read a very nuanced approach there. The National Bank is giving the green light, but it is also asking for a balanced proposal to be drawn up. It's also so literal in the press. Madam Minister, I am sure that you and your colleague, Mr Van Peteghem, will succeed. I understand that a number of people are very impatient, but reality will be right in the coming weeks. Moreover, I suspect that you are talking to the operator about this and that a compromise will be sought.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u11	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it was a very comprehensive answer and a very extensive discussion. I'd like to go back to the core. The core is that energy prices are high and are likely to stay for a while. I see a federal government that is first and foremost taking action when it comes to the most vulnerable, by expanding that social tariff. In addition, I hear a minister who has said on a regular basis, and I repeat this, that no one should enrich themselves in the face of this energy crisis. Madam Minister, I hear today that you do want to work on a tax on debt securities, and I would like to underline this once again. For me, that is a difference from what the President said about profits. If there are excess profits, we must indeed tax them. Madam Minister, you say that you are currently working on a one-off slope, but you have also read well in the opinion of the National Bank that a structural way to do so is also very important and that you want to take the time to see how this one-off measure can be as close as possible to any structural policy. We have a federal government that is making every effort to tackle high energy prices as effectively as possible, first and foremost, and secondly, looking at structural policies. I'm just applauding that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u12	I have used my speaking time. I will not, therefore, explain my response to the question whether the authorities have facilitated the abnormal functioning of the market. It may be part of the second topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u13	Madam Secretary, I had a lot of questions about the emergency gas plan. I would like to refer to its written version, so that we have more time to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u14	Madam Secretary, Mr Wollants has already questioned you about your intention to make a more detailed exit plan by winter. In the meantime, the International Energy Agency stated that Europe should be ready for a possible full cut-off of Russian gas. It is clear that Russia wants to put pressure on the addition of gas resources in the EU. You said last Thursday that solidarity with Germany was being increased. The IEA does not exclude that countries will have to ration their gas consumption. It also clearly calls for the closure of nuclear power stations to be postponed. The closure of many nuclear power stations at international level is not directly compatible with today's war situation and the war economy. Currently, your online search is conducted by more than 1,000 companies, which can indicate online until 3 July what they find an acceptable minimum consumption of gas, what type of gas they use and for what purpose. Madam Minister, can you explain your initiative and the impact on Belgium of a complete cut-off of Russian gas? That scenario is not unimaginable. We are only 4 to 6% dependent, but Belgium is a transit country of gas and there will be an impact on the price anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u15	Madam Minister, winter is coming and it is good to make a comparison with other countries. Germany has declared the second phase of the emergency plan and the Netherlands is in the first phase, the phase of early warning. In France, the government has called for a reduction in energy consumption. As Mr Ravyts said, Belgium is mainly a transit country. Fluxys reassures us, because we have the terminal in Zeebrugge and pipelines to Norway and the United Kingdom. So we shouldn't have to worry much. On the other hand, I think that when the neighbouring countries get into trouble, it can have a huge impact on prices. FEBEG said today that it would be a good idea to encourage consumers to use less energy. Will you call on consumers to reduce their energy consumption? As far as the solidarity mechanism is concerned, does Belgium have a bilateral agreement today? What are the possible consequences of the problems in other countries on gas supply and gas prices in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u16	Minister, on 23 June Germany moved to the alert phase two of its natural gas supply crisis plan, due in particular to the 60% reduction in Russian gas imports via the Nord Stream 1 gas pipeline. In addition, nine other EU Member States have entered pre-warning phase 1. If between 4% and 6% of gas consumed in Belgium comes from Russia, the gradual decline in Russian imports may have an impact on the European gas market to which our country is highly interconnected and therefore heavily dependent. The emergency plan for natural gas shortages in the Energy Branch of the FPS Economy provides that in the event of entry into phase 3 (emergency) the government may decide to reduce the consumption or even disconnect the end-users and, in the first place, the industry connected to the Fluxys transport network. This includes fertilizer producers, cement plants, glassmakers, petrochemicals and iron and steel, for example. Some gas-fired power stations then come, followed by SMEs and civil service services. Finally, in the most serious scenario, it may proceed with the closure of parts of the main network which would involve disconnection of individuals. Madam Minister, last Thursday, you indicated that nothing at this time justified an entry into phase 1 (early warning). What are the criteria for such a passage? What is your assessment of the risk of entry into phase 2 and phase 3, given the decline in Russian gas imports and the evolution of the European market? To what extent does the European Union's Re-Power and recent European Council decisions on energy sobriety prevent this risk? We know that the SPF Economy has engaged in a dialogue with a thousand companies to refine the contingency plan. Can we have your feedback on the proposed changes? Finally, the press today gives some details on the modalities of phase 3. If the reduction in consumption is decided, some 120 companies connected directly to Fluxys, hospitals and households connected to the distribution network will be forced to consume less. Can you tell us exactly under what conditions this would happen? What guarantees would be provided for the continuity and smooth functioning of hospital services? What initiatives would be put in place to protect our fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u17	Madam Minister, the subject is, of course, in line with the above. I honestly admit that I do not have an answer to the difficult question of whether governments share responsibility for the abnormal functioning of the market. In any case, I have heard from you a statement in this regard, which I have some doubts about. I refer to Germany where a green minister has to restart coal exploitation, after Mr Schröder had planned to close the nuclear power plants by 2030 and Mrs Merkel had advanced the closure by ten years, putting Germany now at an impasse. You cannot say that public policy does not have an impact on supply and demand. You also stated that the government is working on a lot of support mechanisms. However, let us be honest. They do not work in the right direction on price formation. After all, we subsidise a great deal. We have high prices, which we then compensate. Your statement that about 20% of the population should be allocated a social tariff has nothing to do with price regulation. The measure simply has to do with the subsidising post factum of high prices and with the persistence of high prices. Let's get down to the bottom of the matter. There is a great deal of concern not only about high prices but also about security of supply. We can say that we have little gas, but we live in the European Union, in which we must not only show solidarity with our German friends. This principle of solidarity has not only a political but also an economic reality. I hope you don't hear that the government is working on it or that everything is going to be okay. Let us be honest, there will be difficult and difficult messages when supply and demand are not balanced. That problem is wider than one in which Mr X or some dictator, in response to the fact that countries no longer want his gas, turns the tap. In this case, we must inform the public in good time and clearly about the scenarios and the efforts it will have to make. Moreover, companies will also have problems, which will have an impact on the population. Are you sufficiently prepared for that? Will you communicate very clearly about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u18	How does the emergency plan work? I have already answered similar questions at the committee meeting on 15 June. At the first signs of security of supply, my cabinet refreshed the procedures with the other government members in an inter-kabinets working group on 25 February, 5 April and 21 June. On 7 April we also organised an online information session for the industry, which was followed by many companies. Mr Leysen, I hope that is an answer to your question, although you are not satisfied with an answer that I am working on. I'm working on it. My administration and Fluxys monitor the situation closely every day. If anything could compromise supply, they would advise me on the impact and suggest possible measures. Then it is decided whether one of the three possible phases should be announced, in particular early warning, alert or emergency. Mr Senesael, the decision criteria for this phase are as follows. Is the supply to Belgium physically at risk or could it be at risk? I am talking about a reduction in flows on one of our interconnection points – which number eighteen in Belgium. Secondly, there is the question of the financial problems of a market participant, because it has to be supplied in a wholesale market, taking into account very high prices. The result is a risk, if not a risk of bankruptcy, in any case of financial difficulties. In such circumstances, this means that a market player withdraws from the game, with a risk to security of supply. In addition, we examine the situation and the decisions taken in the countries around us, and consider whether a neighbouring country has called for solidarity. These criteria are assessed daily by my administration and by Fluxys and can ensure that one of the phases is initiated. Today, we have not yet done so because we are not in such a situation. The mandatory reduction in consumption at the lowest stage and at the highest stage of emergency, i.e. the phase of emergency, is also included in the emergency plan measures. That is also the stage in which decisions are taken by the National Crisis Centre, together with the Minister for the Interior. This is only invoked in the last instance, if there really is not enough gas in our system. I would also like to stress that the gas system is inherently different from the electricity system. Electricity is concerned with zones, especially in rural areas, which are effectively switched off without any distinction being made between customers in those zones. The regulation of gas is fundamentally different. There it is clear who the protected customers are, especially households. This means that in extreme conditions, when there is too little gas, heating of households must be guaranteed. As a reminder, 50% of our gas consumption belongs to the families. Most of the gas is used for heating. The non-protected customers are industry, industry and commercial activities. In the activation of our emergency plan, they will be instructed to reduce their use. I explained last time that the current emergency plan is about a percentage reduction so that there is enough gas in the system to continue supplying protected customers and priority customers such as emergency services and power plants. In the current emergency plan, a minimum flow was calculated for customers on the transmission network. This is calculated individually on the basis of the historical minimum consumption of each of those companies. For other customers, such as individual customers on the distribution network, there are no targets for minimum gas supply. On my question, my administration is currently conducting a consultation, in which all companies are given the opportunity to give feedback on that calculated minimum flow. The other technical possibilities of these companies are also being exploited, including the speed at which they can be safely reduced. The consultation reminds the companies that they should in principle have their own emergency and security plan, in which an interruption of electricity and gas supply can always occur. We also ask what the impact can be on power consumption and whether companies can switch to alternatives. On the basis of that information, the contingency plan will be amended. We want to be done with this by the winter period of 2023. This means that after the summer we will start working on the input. As a couplethesis, the European Commission, too, indicated yesterday at the Energy Council that it will review its rules on its contingency planning or emergency planning, because, of course, the contingency plans were not developed on the basis of a war situation but on the basis of another crisis situation, for example a fire somewhere, causing temporary unavailability and temporary intervention. However, the plans are not tailored to a prolonged interruption. Let me make a comparison with our neighbouring countries, which have moved to the early warning phase, and with Germany, which has gone to the alert phase. Germany has done so because of the reduction in gas supply via Nord Stream I. According to Russia, the supply has been reduced because there is a need for maintenance. No one's gonna believe that. Yesterday, the Council also noted that this was a political game. It is not believed that there is also an effective maintenance problem, but that it is really Putin's choice to reduce flows. There is therefore less supply towards Germany, thereby compromising the addition of stocks in Germany. Each of Europe's Member States wants to go into winter well prepared, i.e. filled stocks. Germany has therefore declared the alert phase in order to activate the measures at that stage, to save gas, to be able to issue a savings tender at companies and to have coal power stations produce extra, so that the available gas can go to stocks as a matter of priority, in order to be able to enter winter with maximum protection. The same applies to the Netherlands. I have extensive contact with both my colleagues. They have also triggered the early warning phase in order to introduce production on coal plants. So we see that the phases in the emergency plans are triggered in order to prepare for the winter preventively. We are also examining what additional measures we need to take to prepare for winter. In the meantime, of course, we find ourselves in a different logic than we did a few months ago. Mrs Dierick, if you ask me if I can draw up an emergency plan that will not have any negative consequences for any company, I cannot promise you that. However, I will do everything I can to be as prepared as possible. That is why, on 31 March 2022, we took the ministerial decision on the natural gas emergency plan, and I tabled the bill here to speed up the completion of the gas supply. Ladies and gentlemen, I can also tell you that, because the draft has been adopted at a very rapid pace here, you will remember that we have worked very hard, and we have a month's lead on the schedule for supplementing the stocks in Loenhout. We evaluate every day. We're updating our contingency plan. We must indeed be prepared on all fronts. We must not leave anything to chance, certainly not in a war situation where gas is used as a weapon. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that as early as April we had the awareness campaign 'I have an impact'. have launched. Why did we do that? That was the period of the rubble issue. Then Putin said that the gas is being cut off from those who do not pay in rubles. Then there was a real fear that the flows would decrease. What did we do? We immediately launched this campaign, because if there really was a break or a reduction, we would have to be much stricter and would have to make a compulsory reduction in our companies. Smart handling of energy today is more important than ever. That is why the European Commission said yesterday in the Energy Council that it will work on a global plan to reduce demand. I got the numbers from Fluxys this morning. Gas consumption in the period 1 January-26 June decreased by 18.5% compared to the first six months of last year. Let us look at the different segments. In industry, the consumption rate was as high as 11 per cent. The reason for this is that consumption coincides entirely with the price. What do we see? Once the gas price for industry is too high, it will reduce consumption. The industry responds to the price signals. It conducts a kind of arbitration on the basis of whether one can still produce or not. Power plants consumed 26.45 % less gas. The reason for this is the availability of nuclear energy. We are not in the French situation, where 56% of the nuclear park is unavailable. We are in the Belgian situation, where availability is higher. Furthermore, renewable energy is available. Today we have a first zone in the North Sea which is fully operational. Of course there are also exports and imports. At the distribution level, the households, we see a reduction in gas consumption of 18,33 %, thanks to the temperatures and behavioural change with lower heating. From this we learn, firstly, that our industry is vulnerable and that there is a risk of inflation and economic slowdown. Fuel switch is therefore also very important for industry: we need to consider how to switch fossil fuel-based industries to other sources such as green hydrogen. Secondly, we are establishing an acceleration of the energy transition in our electricity supply. One zone in the North Sea is not enough. The second zone must be established and connected as soon as possible. Infrastructure projects that are so urgent should not be delayed further. Thirdly, with families helping behavior changes. One of the recommendations in the 'I have impact' campaign, which is to lower the temperature one degree, works. This results in both energy saving and energy efficiency. Our homes need to be heated more efficiently and better insulated to be prepared for the shocks. Mr Ravyts, your question of what is happening is not easy to answer, because many elements can play a role. Everything is monitored, analysed and simulated at European level by the Gas Coordination Group, supported by the European cooperation of network operators ENTSOG and ENTSO-E. When it appears that there is an interruption in the supply of Russian gas, it will not be possible for all European countries to replenish stocks by winter. Belgium, France, Spain and Portugal will have no problem supplementing gas stocks in time, but a country like Germany will. That is why Germany has declared the alert phase in order to be able to send a maximum quantity of gas to stocks as a matter of priority. We are on the right side of Europe, namely without direct pipelines to Russia. Through Zeebrugge we can count on a lot of import capacity from Norway, the United Kingdom and from the sea with LNG and there is 3.5 times more gas than we consume in Belgium, and that we also export massively to the Netherlands and Germany. Mr Verduyckt, our pipes to Germany are already 50% above their guaranteed maximum. As far as monitoring and analysis is concerned, the European Commission said yesterday that it will strengthen it even further in order to be fully prepared. German Energy Minister Habeck contacted me in April with a proposal for a bilateral agreement, as registered in the gas security regulation of 2017. The CREG, Fluxys and my administration have analysed this and report to me that there are still some legal, technical and financial gaps in the proposal. In particular, Article 14 of the German Constitution ensures that the financial regulation in the agreement is not guaranteed. I let Secretary Habeck know. However, we are looking in the Benelux partnership to see if we can conclude a solidarity agreement between the three Benelux countries. Mr Verduyckt, as regards the technical aspects, the guaranteed fixed capacity of the interconnection point with Germany is 22.6 gigawattuur (GWh), but 13 GWh additional capacity is currently being made available on an underbreakable basis. I also understand that Germany cannot receive more capacity. That means that we could send more, on our side of the border, but on the other side of the border they are unable to receive more. The analyses of what an interruption of gas supply from Russia would mean for electricity supply are in full swing. The two are inherently linked. The differences between the Member States of the European Union are also very wide. Those analyses shall be carried out at European level jointly by ENTSO-E and ENTSOG. In any case, no problems are expected for the coming summer; the results of the next winter simulations are expected in September. The impact on prices is difficult to estimate. The events and announcements of the previous weeks have led to a price increase on our trading hub in Zeebrugge, the ZTP, from 70 euros per MWh to 115 euros per MWh. At the start of the war in March peak prices were reached at up to 240 euros per MWh. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is being closely monitored and monitored. That is what makes the decisions necessary. I hear, see and read the calls to reduce demand. That is, of course, crucial. The European Commission is putting in place a coordinated plan to address this at European level. In the end, we all have to divide the gas as well as possible to ensure that our families can continue to heat, without harming our economy. That is a challenging exercise, which can only succeed if we learn lessons from it. We need to accelerate our fuel switch, the switch to other clean sources, so that we can solve the problems both in the short and medium term.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u19	No one could predict that gas supplies would be used as a geopolitical weapon. Fortunately, our country is not too dependent on Russia, for only 4%, and fortunately there is also the port of Zeebrugge, which is very important for the gas sector. Yet we must prepare for the worst. A contingency plan is always hoped that one does not have to use it. That is why it is important to update it. It is good that there has been a survey of the companies, so that we can get to work on their information with a view to the actualization of the emergency plan. So I look forward to further steps. Communication is also very important. An awareness campaign has already been organised, but repeating, repeating and repeating must really be the message here. There is therefore a need for additional communication when the emergency plan is about to be implemented, so that businesses and citizens are fully involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u20	Thank you for your upholstered answer. I am satisfied that I have asked some good questions. For you, it is indeed a matter of juggling and dancing on the weak cord. You do this together with the actors at EU level, and I have confidence in monitoring. But in the current gas crisis - I am not making any statements for the future - there is, in my view, no room for the carbon tax that some people in the Vivaldi government called for at the beginning of the legislature. I am aware that in the future, in the light of energy independence, we must focus on renewable energy and, in my view, also on nuclear energy of the newest generation. I hope, however, that the transition will be kept truly social and that price signals will not be spoken of too much at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u21	I would like to thank the Minister for the clear information about our situation and the situation in the Netherlands and Germany. We also understand why coal-fired power stations need to be used there today. In itself, this is a difficult issue for the Green Energy Wedding, although it has always been an example for me in terms of long-term energy planning. It is painful, however, that a war at our external borders and the supply of energy by coal-fired power stations must be restored, but the fact remains that we have thought about the longer term. You could also have referred to France, where we are also calling for less energy to be consumed today. The reason for this is the non-functioning of many nuclear power plants. Anyway, it's still a painful finding. Mr Ravyts, you are questioning the carbon tax in the context of the green tax shift, but I hope that today we will not completely put the climate problem aside because of the problems that exist, even though it is very difficult. After all, if your house rips or runs under water, you will have no message of delay. We are in a difficult situation in Europe because of the war and the high energy price, but we must not forget that, as far as I am concerned, climate warming must remain at the top of the agenda, even if it is very difficult. I note that our families are still able to consume 18.5% less gas, and that is a good achievement, which is to be welcomed. Hopefully it will not mean that families will be in the cold in the coming winter, because they are having financial difficulties. We need to keep an eye on that. The government has also taken measures to give the OCMWs some extra breathing space to assist those families. Finally, you say that Belgium's solidarity with Germany is maximum, Madam Minister. There is also work for the Benelux Interparliamentary Assembly. It will be very busy, because it will also have to deal with teleworking by frontier workers, which I have just asked a question about. That is not a bad thing in itself, because cooperation is always a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u22	Madam Minister, like Mr Verduyckt, you seem to be pleased with the 18% savings in the household sector. You ignore the fact that people are forced to do so because prices have just become priceless. That's actually a forced saving. That's not so positive. I can follow you in the interests of saving and isolation. That's what Bond Beter Leefenvironment was all about last week. An effective third-party payment system must be put in place to make this possible. I don't think it's that positive. I would like to make a few more comments. The situation is awesome now anyway. There's basically enough gas. Some countries now produce more electricity from coal and lignite. In fact, that situation now proves that the war must stop as soon as possible. It's not sustainable for anyone anymore. There is security of supply, but the high prices are there. They're hitting the working class. It is time for diplomacy and an end to the escalation of sanctions and reprisals. They don't work and only make the working class pay. The PVDA has always been in favour of targeted sanctions against Russian oligarchy, but against such general sanctions. The situation today really cannot be done, and that must stop, both the war in Ukraine and the entire international context associated with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u23	Mr Warmoes says that I welcome the fact that people consume less gas. I have done a lot of Energy Cafés in Limburg over the last few months. I've been talking to a lot of people about their energy consumption. There are indeed people who are forced to reduce their consumption. There are also quite a lot of people who are looking at their energy consumption today and looking for tips on how to use less energy. They conclude that this is possible in itself. We must welcome the fact that people are taking these measures. So the one-sided image you are trying to present here, as if I were happy with the fact that people have to turn off their heating, is absolutely not right and does not go along with reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u24	The reality is sometimes a little more complex than the ideological ideas of one or another.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u25	Madam Minister, the 12th round of negotiations on the Energy Charter Treaty took place on 22 April. That treaty is particularly well known, or rather notorious, because it allows multinationals to sue governments if a government decision threatens the profits of multinationals. The treaty is therefore a serious threat to the energy transition. For example, the German energy multinational RWE filed a claim of no less than 1.4 billion euros against the Dutch government when it decided to close all coal plants by 2030. The Energy Charter Treaty hangs like a sword of Damocles over governments. If they work on an energetic energy transition, the fossil giants threaten with megaclaims; 97% of the claims were submitted by the fossil fuel industry. ENGIE Electrabel also filed a claim for damages in Hungary when the government tried to regulate energy prices there. This energy charter is therefore also socially harmful. One of the hot issues of the treaty is the ISDS mechanism, full of Investor-State Dispute Settlement, a clause that gives companies the power to sue states. So far, your position and that of the government has been that you requested a revision of the treaty. After almost fifteen rounds of negotiations, however, we can only conclude that the negotiations have failed. The present compromise is not enough for us. Civil society and trade unions have been calling for a break from the Treaty for some time. In view of the failure of the negotiations, this call is increasingly being heard. Germany, the Netherlands, Poland and Spain recently asked the European Commission to examine how a planned withdrawal from the Convention could take place, and France also called for a withdrawal from the Convention. How do you evaluate the compromise that emerged from the negotiations? Does that call you to change position? Do you support the call of a number of countries to investigate the exit from the Convention? What position does Belgium defend? Do you also consider that the compromise is far too weak? Does Belgium intend to withdraw from the treaty?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u26	Madam Minister, the reality is grey, like the President's hair, and it consists of compromise. I do not know how the questioner, Mr Cogolati, evaluates the outcome, but after fifteen difficult rounds of consultations an agreement was reached on Friday 24 June 2022 on the reform of the Energy Charter Treaty. They are trying to push ahead with modernisation, but apparently a revision of the arbitration system was never really on the table. The compromise reached gives countries the option of phasing out the protection of fossil investments, although not before 2033. So there too there is a temporization. So it doesn't exactly look like global investment in coal, gas and oil will be drastically reduced in the coming years, Mr Warmoes. That's a reality check. The compromise also extends protection to new technologies such as biomass, hydrogen and carbon capture and storage. The agreement must of course be approved by the European Council and the European Parliament, which is usually much more radical and in which a majority voted for an exit from the treaty last week. Belgium asked the European Court of Justice whether the Energy Charter Treaty is compatible with EU law, but the Court wanted to await the reforms. Now that that is clear, Belgium can in principle ask the question again. The answer has already been given by a majority in the European Parliament, and I will not comment on it as an opposition Member, but I am, of course, curious about your attitude and that of the government. Your predecessor absolutely didn't want to know about an exit from the treaty. How do you evaluate the compromise? What further steps will Belgium take in the dossier, because the negotiations have, of course, been conducted by the EU?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u27	Colleagues, the Energy Charter Treaty (ECT) is a controversial treaty with many sore points. The most well-known are the arbitration procedures, the limitation of the right to regulate and the protection it offers to investments in fossil energy sources. We can respond to this in two ways: either by getting out of the treaty as soon as possible, with as little collateral damage as possible, or by modernising and creating an instrument that helps us to achieve climate objectives rather than counter them. You know that until now I have always maintained both options because I am a reliable partner and because I am convinced that results can be achieved after a dialogue. Of course, the result will have to be evaluated. The countries that have been critical before, such as Germany, the Netherlands, Poland and Spain, have all remained actively involved in the negotiations. Now an agreement in principle has been reached which must be converted into final texts. From the input I have received from my administration and from the European Commission, steps have certainly been taken forward. The protection afforded by the Convention is extended to renewable energy sources and carriers, such as hydrogen, biogas and ReFuNoBiOs. For the European Union and the Member States that opt for it, there will be a fossil fuel carve-out. This means that investment in fossil energy will no longer be protected from 15 August 2023. For existing investments there is a transitional period of 10 years beginning to run 90 days after the annual conference scheduled for 22 November 2022. There will also be a five-yearly video mechanism to ensure that the Treaty remains relevant. Modernisation provides for a clearer definition of who can claim investment protection. This will also create more room for governments by better filling in their right to regulate. It also provides for stricter criteria and greater transparency in dispute resolution. Furthermore, arbitration proceedings within the EU will no longer be possible. This responds to the observations of the European Court of Justice. With regard to sustainable development, there are clear references to the ILO Conventions and the Paris Agreement. As has been said, steps have been taken, but there are still a lot of concerns that do not seem to have been addressed or only addressed in a limited way. I am thinking of the following three things. Firstly, protection of existing fossil investments for at least ten years. Let this be just the period when most of the fossil investment in Europe needs to be phased out. We must therefore look very closely at whether this does not jeopardise our objectives within the European Union, our protection. Secondly, there is the possibility of avoiding the prohibition of arbitration proceedings within the EU by involving third countries. This is now only happening within the EU. Thirdly, there is the impact of the Treaty on the implementation of the Paris Agreement in the rest of the world. Whether the renewed ECT really complies with the changes required to support sustainable development and climate neutrality will only be assessed in itself if a final proposal for change of behaviour is on the table. I expect that at the end of August. In the negotiation process, Belgium has strongly insisted that the proposal of the amended Treaty text be made public as soon as possible. This requires an open and democratic debate. In order to conclude the renewed agreement, the Commission will have to initiate a procedure for signing and concluding the agreement, which requires the approval of the Council and the approval of the European Parliament. It is within this procedure that our country will adopt a position on the basis of the final text, together with our European partners. I can tell you that yesterday on the agenda of the EU Council of Spain, the Netherlands and Germany, on the subject of various issues, the outcome of the round of negotiations was extremely critical. In particular, all three have questioned the text, whether it is in line with the Paris Agreement, independently of each other, or perhaps inspired by each other. As far as our own position is concerned, I believe that the negotiations are now over and that we must now evaluate them. We will have to examine further the possibility of a coordinated exit at European level, especially if we come to the conclusion that the result of the modernisation process is not sufficient. Then we must be prepared for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u28	Madam Minister, I was startled at the beginning of your reply, but you built it gradually, and I was glad to hear critical to very critical reservations at the end. You are, of course, waiting until you have the text, you say, but you also know that different things cannot be done. At least that's what I read between the lines. The arbitration procedures, for example, may no longer be allowed in Europe, but they cannot be allowed in the case of African countries or countries of the Middle East. The fact that private multinationals are overstated or are trying to bring states to justice is simply not possible. Ten more years of protection for investments in fossil fuels is impossible. What the text will look like will still have to be proved, but on the basis of what you have said, we already know that this cannot be done and that we need to get out of that treaty. With interest I take note of your objective reporting and your critical reservations about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u29	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. Unlike Mr Warmoes, I have also heard in your reply matters concerning the compromise. Contrary to what the press said, there are still some important steps forward for the first half. As it is only an agreement in principle, I can also understand why you should wait for a final evaluation of that modernisation process. I wonder, of course, whether what is now on the table is sufficiently consistent with the global climate objectives, and I agree with Mr Warmoes. Since the Energy Charter Treaty is about global issues, it can of course be nothing but a compromise. It's as simple as that, that's the reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u30	In your policy paper 2022, you wrote, Madam Minister, that you want to better map and, of course, combat energy poverty. You would then be working on a new list of indicators of energy poverty. Based on the many testimonies, we have the impression that energy poverty in our country has increased dramatically. With today's high prices, there's no other way. There is therefore an urgent need for new figures on the current situation and the increase in energy poverty since the beginning of the energy crisis. As far as I know, they are not yet available and we have to work with old figures. They already reveal a rather dramatic situation, namely that 20% of our families live in energy poverty, according to the criteria of the King Baudouin Foundation. How much has energy poverty increased since the beginning of the energy crisis? What is the most recent estimate of energy poverty in our country? Do you have more precise figures and when do they date? What about the new list of energy poverty indicators? I do know you've been working a lot lately. But by when can we expect the results?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u31	That 20% figure is indeed shocking. I therefore fully share your concern. I am convinced that we must consolidate the extension of the social tariff and strengthen the energy funds. The government has therefore decided to grant additional funding to the Social Heating Fund and the Energy Fund. The 20% quoted is in the Barometers Energy and Water poverty. In that publication of the King Baudouin Foundation of March 2021 it is said that the energy poverty among social tenants is up to 40%. An update for the year 2020 will be published shortly. It is not possible to make a recent assessment. The figures are based on extensive scientific research by the University of Antwerp and the ULB. It takes several months to collect all the data and then another three months to process the data. The analysis is done on the basis of historical data and therefore by definition always lags behind. The draft law transposing the EMD Directive at federal government level will be submitted to the Chamber very soon. This draft provides the necessary framework to identify a list of energy poverty indicators at KB. There has already been extensive consultation with Mr Lalieux on these indicators. An expert group has also contributed to its elaboration. So as soon as the legal framework is in place, we will start working on it. Finally, I would like to refer to the recent study of the PwC consultancy agency under the energy standard. The study showed that the social tariff is a powerful tool to protect vulnerable families from historically high gas and electricity prices. The KU Leuven came to the same conclusion. Families enjoying the social tariff for gas and electricity therefore feel the crisis much less than vulnerable groups in neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u32	Thank you for the state of play. You rightly refer to the social tariff and make the comparison with neighbouring countries. You say that the families who 'enjoy' the crisis may feel less than they do in neighbouring countries, but they do feel the crisis. These social rates have also increased gradually and this increase is not insignificant. I find it strange to have to wait so long for data in the middle of the energy price crisis. The King Baudouin Foundation works according to its own methods and planning. That cannot be blamed on her, but you, as the Minister for Energy, should have the statistics at your disposal more quickly. You have always said that you are defending your policy on the basis of statistics and data. You do not have that information at your disposal, and I regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u33	Madam Minister, this question dates back a few weeks ago and, in fact, it has already been raised in the second actua debate. So I will paraphrase them somewhat, because I think you have already answered some of the elements. However, I would like to touch on a number of points. On 18 May, the European Commission worked hard with REPowerEU, an ambitious plan to generate more renewable energy in Europe and thus become more energy independent. We all know the reason for this: the situation in Russia. At the same time, this is linked to a longer-term policy, where the plan can be a lever for achieving our climate goals. The plan consists of three pillars, which we have just mentioned: reducing energy consumption and efficiency, diversifying gas imports and liquid natural gas (LNG), and investing more in renewable energy. According to the plan, the renewable energy ambition would be 45% by 2030. All large buildings must be equipped with solar panels, something you called on the Commission to work out an obligation. We are also working on this in Belgium, but the figures I requested from SNCB, among others, show that much remains to be done before we get there. The Commission also proposes that in 2030 up to 10 million tonnes of domestic production of renewable hydrogen and 10 million tonnes of imports. The North Sea is hereby designated as one of the three major import corridors for hydrogen. How do you welcome the strengthened ambitions and plans of the European Commission? What additional efforts will we have to make to meet the higher ambitions? What's it gonna take?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u34	Thank you, Mrs Buyst. It is true that the question and therefore my initial answer date from a few weeks ago, but that does not alter the fact that the issue remains topical. As a result, I can now make the link with yesterday's Energy Council. Belgium welcomed the REPowerEU proposals. We support the objectives of reducing and diversifying energy dependence. We need to replace imports of gas and oil from Russia, and REPowerEU offers the opportunity not to replace these imports by imports of the same energy sources from other countries, but by imports of renewable energy. The increased ambition and the additional means of achieving this objective are a good thing for our country. I myself believe very strongly in this, but unfortunately I note that not all the governments of our country share that view. How this will be translated in practice will be discussed extensively at European level. A preliminary reduction was made at the Council yesterday, because we approved the Presidency's orientation paper on energy efficiency and renewable energy. Agreement on energy efficiency was reached fairly quickly. However, this was not the case for renewable energy. The increase to 45% of the REPowerEU target was not included in the review of the Renewable Energy Directive. The European Commission has announced that it will put this back on the table in the context of the trialogue, the discussions between Parliament, the Council and the Commission. The Commission is counting on Member States to continue to pursue this increased objective in the context of energy independence and security. There are, of course, a number of innovative proposals under REPowerEU that are good for our country, for example the joint procurement of gas and hydrogen, but also the IT tool for building demand and transparency and infrastructure, as well as the stricter regulations on gas storage and accelerated authorisation procedures. The increase in energy efficiency and renewable energy ambition requires a strong effort. For our renewable energy objectives, we need to buy statistics abroad. It would be better to invest that money in our own economy, for example for the expansion of wind energy at sea and the promotion of PV installations on public buildings. I would like to thank you for your initiative to listen to SNCB. There is still work to be done. This committee likes to join forces with other committees, for example the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Economic Affairs. I would like to suggest that we also cooperate with the Committee on Mobility. As part of the decision of 18 March, the government decided to set up a technical working group to eliminate those technical criteria for renewable energy, both for aviation and for defence. My colleague Georges Gilkinet and I are happy to give an update on how things are developing. It is, of course, always good to get the necessary suggestions from Parliament. Regarding the energy-efficient, the ball lies mainly in the camp of the regions. Belgium is not achieving its objective today. From the federal government we do what is possible: better isolated government buildings, reducing traction losses in SNCB and making the VAT system for efficient building and renovation beneficial.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u35	Mr President, Minister, Ecolo-Green already knew that the energy transition is needed because it makes our society more affordable, safer and more sustainable. The current situation highlights this need. I am glad to hear that this urgency is shared in Europe, that you spoke about it with your colleagues yesterday. In addition to the innovative proposals, in connection with this faster regulation and a first step towards the redevelopment of the energy market, it is good that higher ambitions are put in place to deal with our energy consumption more efficiently. I agree with you that we need to work together there. That's a word I used regularly in our committee. Working together on climate and energy means that all regions must assume their responsibilities and use all the levers they have to achieve those goals. With regard to the higher ambition of renewable energy, I hear that it was not included immediately, but that it was pursued. I certainly take your suggestion that we work with the Mobility Committee there too, so that we can also use all the levers we have at federal level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u36	In the meantime, my question has been overtaken by current events, because when I submitted them, the government had not yet decided to extend the measures on energy prices. Prime Minister De Croo had already announced that that decision was coming. In the meantime, on 18 June, the government decided to extend the energy measures until the end of this year. To our surprise and disappointment, these measures have not been made permanent and have therefore remained temporary again. It is about expanding the social tariff and reducing VAT on energy. Is it still not clear to the government that energy is a basic requirement? Do you want to continue using temporary measures? Moreover, there was some ambiguity in communication, because you said on Twitter that those measures were extended until the end of March 2023. The draft royal decree of Minister Van Peteghem shows that it is only until 31 December 2022. Apparently, there's been a misunderstanding. Why is the government still refusing to make the extension of the social tariff permanent? Since you yourself often refer to the social rate, I assume that you know the need for it for the people. Why is the VAT reduction on energy temporary and not permanent? What date have these measures been extended until now? Until the end of this year or until the end of March 2023? How will you finance these measures? By skimming off the excess profits or do you have any other ideas? The chairman will agree with me that this costs a lot of money.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u37	Madam Minister, I would like to concentrate on one aspect of the agreement within the nuclear cabinet of 18 June. I had already asked the question about buildings with collective heating three days earlier. I know that your colleague Van Peteghem has the power to implement this measure. But of course you share that concern. According to the press release, the VAT reduction for gas would also apply from 1 July to apartment buildings, residential care centres, hospitals and other buildings and places with collective heating installations. I have heard in the corridors that it will not be July 1st, but August 1st. You will clarify this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u38	In reply to my question, you said on 15 June that a solution for VAT was not possible, given the regional powers and the Flemish decrees. The government's press conference did not provide any concrete clarification on what the solution looks like. My colleague, Mr Vermeersch, is currently questioning your colleague, Mr Van Peteghem, but I am also asking you here. Another question is whether the advice of the CREG and the FPS Economy, which was requested in April, was useful and whether it was also used.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u39	For the social tariff and its permanent extension, I refer to my reply at previous meetings. The extension to the target group entitled to social tariff was one of the first measures of my social energy policy. I'm making it a spearhead to extend that measure. I therefore follow the experts and poverty groups who agree that this structural anchoring is necessary. Whether there will be one depends on the debate in the government. For the reduction of VAT to 6% for common connections, I referred last time to the fact that we were based on residential contracts. We have then come to the definition of residential contracts in the decrees. That's why a group fell out of the boat. That is why we have now opted to finance a general VAT reduction. In concrete terms, this means that suppliers do not charge anyone more than 6% of VAT on the sale of natural gas. In any case, the collective connections are eligible. Then, importantly, it is for the owners of these collective connections to pass the VAT reduction on to the residents. I think it's important to think about this. It can't be meant to stick somewhere. I am counting on it to be applied correctly. That decision came out as the best option, because after checking with the CREG, the FPS Economy, the FPS Finance and the suppliers, it has been found that this is the only workable solution within the federal jurisdiction that does not exclude customers. The VAT reduction has been extended to 6%. The consultations on making them permanent are ongoing. As has always been said, I believe that a permanent reduction in VAT should be linked to the smarter use of excise duties. I cannot anticipate the precise impact of the smart excise control, but in any case excise duties will only be allowed to increase or decrease depending on consumption, and no longer depending on price. We need to work on an energy bill that contributes to the energy transition. The first stones have already been laid by this government. As far as your question about 1 July or 1 August is concerned, the answer remains to be found. If that still comes in in the meantime, I'd like to get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u40	As far as the structural anchoring of the social tariff is concerned, I am pleased to hear that you are in favour of it, but that some in the government are still obstructing it. I hope it's gonna be okay. I can guess who's bothering me, but okay. As far as the VAT reduction is concerned, we still have to wait a bit, but it is still being considered. We are pleased with that. I just hope this will be resolved soon. Madam Minister, for the sake of clarity, you did not answer the question of when it was extended. I assume it's until 31 December 2022?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u41	It's until December 31st. [[No microphone.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u42	Nor did you reply to the question about financing. However, I assume that this has been included in the overall budget. Have specific measures been taken in terms of funding or have they been implemented under the budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u43	No measures have been taken. [[No microphone.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u44	Mr President, Minister, I have thus received answers to my questions. I hope that this will be the last extension, before it is structurally anchored.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u45	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for implementing the press conference, on which, unless you contradict me, I have not immediately heard the only workable solution that you have now proposed and which can be described as quite remarkable. I will give your answer another thought, together with my colleague from the Committee on Finance and the Budget, who knows a lot more about it. I will also take a look at what Minister Van Peteghem said about this this afternoon. You may have received the answer by 1 July or 1 August 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u46	Madam Minister, we have discussed the temporary increase in the production of coal. The impact on gas stocks for this winter also plays a role. I will not repeat these questions and comments here. Madam Minister, the essence of my question is about the ETS system. Do you believe that the flexibility of the ETS will ensure that more CO2 emissions will not seriously jeopardise the European climate objectives? In a sausage case scenario, that war continues to last for a while and may escalate, although I certainly hope not, but all scenarios are possible. Are the European climate objectives really not affected by these possible developments? Who would have thought that the production of energy through coal would be revived? I hope that at European level group purchases and the price ceiling will eventually be effectively implemented as an emergency brake, but you have already answered that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u47	Mr Ravyts, of course I was not present at the summit of Heads of State or Government. Indeed, the Prime Minister has once again called for a coordinated European approach to the current energy crisis. It is important to develop group purchases quickly through the EU Energy Platform and further research into price restrictions and improving the functioning of our European electricity market. A very positive evolution is the decision to create an energy steering board. This is a group of politically mandated senior officials meeting on a regular basis to coordinate EU actions and Member States' actions, including on the coordination of gas transit, the replenishment of gas resources and the coordination of emergency plans. Although everyone agreed on the urgency of the energy crisis, no concrete decisions were taken. That is why I once again advocated at the Council yesterday that European measures should be speeded up in order to reduce prices more quickly and to secure supplies. As far as your question on coal and lignite is concerned, I can only deeply regret the fact that, in the midst of a climate crisis, more coal and lignite will be used again. We are in exceptional circumstances. We see that several countries are taking measures to secure supplies. This shows once again the need for greater cooperation at European level. Then I come to your reasoning about the stabilising effect on prices. In principle, in most cases, the gas plants will remain at marginal production capacity and thus determine the price and the coal plants for gas plants will be included in the market order. I think we should not lose sight of the fact that we are in a crisis and that prices are very volatile. The price effect remains therefore difficult to predict. Germany has also taken this measure mainly to ensure that it can complement the gas supply. We are fortunate in the given context that we are embedded in a robust and ambitious European climate policy, with the EU ETS ensuring that emission reductions are at least achieved in order to meet our objectives. Paradoxically, thanks to the functioning of the ETS, increased emissions from coal power plants can lead to accelerated investment in emission-free technologies elsewhere. In doing so, we must ensure that the use of coal plants to ensure security of supply is only a temporary solution, while at the same time reducing the consumption of energy and producing more renewable energy as quickly as possible. The progress of the Fit for 55 dossiers, including the adoption of the general approach yesterday of the Energy Efficiency Directive and the Renewable Energy Directive, is an important step in this process, even if Belgium had to abstain because of internal Belgian differences of opinion. I look forward to the trialogue between the European Parliament, the European Council and the European Commission in autumn. I hope there will be an agreement by the end of the year. At the same time, and in anticipation of the strengthened European framework, all Member States must also make additional and accelerated efforts in their national policies on the energy transition, something I do in any case continue to do in my policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u48	Madam Minister, I am in any case very curious, perhaps together with a number of colleagues and the President, whether the gas crisis will really only have a marginal impact on Fit for 55 and the concrete impact of the legislative package. I still have a double feeling about that. I have already understood that there is a great deal of caution regarding the extension of the ETS system to other sectors. There is already a bit of a temporisation there. The future will tell and we will undoubtedly have educational debates on this in this committee in the autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u49	Mr. President, Minister, the project for the Loop du Hainaut is of great concern to the people of the Central Region and I am once again speaking for them. Banners against this new infrastructure flourish along the roads. An unprecedented citizen mobilization, which began several months ago, continues to intensify. At the end of the North Sea Summit in which you participated with Prime Minister Alexander De Croo, Belgium signed a cooperation agreement which provides for quadrupling the capacity of offshore wind turbines in the North Sea. This announcement leads us to believe that the government's energy ambitions are being revised upwards and that the forecasts made in 2019, by 2030-2040, are no longer to the taste of the day. That's where the Hainaut Loop comes in. Indeed, following the signing of this cooperation agreement, Elia's calculations which formed the basis for the deployment of this controversial project would no longer be up to date. Finally, the federal government recently filed a complaint with the European authorities against a French wind farm project of 50 km2 at the border with Belgium in the name of the visual pollution that it would create and the risk to local tourism, two arguments put forward by the protestors of the Boucle du Hainaut. Minister, given the government's new objectives for offshore wind power generation, are Elia's calculations for the Hainaut Loop up to date or need to be reviewed? Can we get your feedback on this? Was this discussed in the Transregional Projects Working Group? To what extent is the construction of the Hainaut Loop as envisaged in 2019 still considered relevant? Has an amendment to the existing draft been mentioned in the discussions with Elia? Finally, how do you justify the federal filing of the complaint, while the reasons given are identical for high-voltage lines that would also disfigure our beautiful Central Region?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u50	Mr Prévot, the increased ambitions have no impact on the project of the Loop du Hainaut. Elia's calculations for this project therefore remain valid and should not be reviewed. This was also explained in detail at the meeting of the Transregional Projects Working Group (TPG PTR) on 20 June. The Hainaut Loop remains important for three reasons: a viable network, the development of industry and electrification in the region, and the development of wind at sea. As every time I receive questions about this project, I make it clear that the procedure concerning the Hainaut Loop is currently in the hands of the Walloon Region. I find your comparison between the arguments in favour of an offshore wind farm and those in favour of an inappropriate cable link. It dishonors the residents' concerns about the Hainaut Loop. These concerns are heard and the impact minimized as much as possible in order to achieve the objectives just mentioned. For questions on objections to Dunkirk offshore park, I refer you to my colleague Minister Vincent Van Quickenborne, responsible for the North Sea.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u51	Minister, I hear a number of things in this response: these increased ambitions would in no way alter Elia's calculations and, according to the government, this loop of Hainaut remains important in many respects. I can tell you that she is very worried about the citizens on the ground, so much so that if the project is born, it should cross the cities and the countryside. I know that the procedure is currently in the hands of the Walloon Government and Mr Borsus in this case. But on the last point, I will not fail to question your colleague in charge of the North Sea, because I find it a bit silly that the federal government can lodge a complaint with the European authorities against a French project, for visual pollution, when this same visual pollution is evoked by the citizens against this project of the Boucle du Hainaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u52	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Warmoes (Commission); Mr Warmoes; Mr Warmoes; Mr Warmoes; Mr Warmoes; Mr Warmoes; Mr Warmoes; Mr Warmoes; Mr Warmoes; Mr Warmoes;
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u53	Madam Minister, on 23 December 2021, the government reached an agreement to allow new nuclear technologies. In the meantime, we're six months late. Have you finished the bill on that? When can we expect that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u54	Mr Leysen, the agreement of 23 December 2021 indeed provides for the adoption of a law to enable the development of sustainable and carbon-neutral energy production. It includes the possibility of developing SMRs, green hydrogen and power-to-X. A preliminary draft law on the development of a sustainable and climate-neutral energy system has been submitted to the coalition partners and discussed. The discussion will continue in the coming weeks. The preliminary draft is intended to help develop technologies that can contribute to a sustainable and climate-neutral energy system. Research into such systems is brought together and encouraged. Suggestions for additional research are made and policy-supporting advice is provided to remove any obstacles and guide prototypes to commercial applications. Current regulations do not prevent research into SMRs and the development of a prototype SMR. As you know, the government has released EUR 100 million to support research into SMRs. In a first step, the SCK CEN was commissioned to carry out, possibly in collaboration with a private player and/or universities, a technology assessment of all developing small modular reactor types and their compliance with a number of principles. These principles are passive safety, the minimalisation of long-lived waste, non-proliferation, flexibility, economic feasibility, economic insurability, sustainable development and the realisation period.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u55	Madam Secretary, you have repeated what we already know. We'll wait. In the meantime, there has been a progressive understanding in that period of focusing more on new technologies, not just on hydrogen. I expect a little more there anyway. My next question is in line with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u56	Madam Secretary, this question is in line with my previous one. The Dutch Minister for Energy, Rob Jetten, announced that he would present concrete plans for two new nuclear reactors. He also puts it as such: "We are fully committed to wind, sun and renewable energy sources, but in that energy mix you also want to have a stable CO2-free energy source. Two new nuclear power plants are a good addition to all sustainable techniques." Madam Minister, how do you feel about this, knowing that, also through electrification and connections, energy is increasingly a matter of European order? According to the Treaty of Lisbon, the energy mix is still national, but that is in fact out of line. Are you also in contact with your Dutch colleague, partly because these power stations are also close to our country? I would like to know your position on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u57	Mr Leysen, the Dutch Government is implementing the Dutch coalition agreement and I am implementing the Belgian coalition agreement. The Belgian government agreement provided that if there is an unexpected problem with security of supply, the government will take the appropriate measures, such as the adjustment of the legal calendar, for a capacity of up to 2 gigawatt nuclear capacity. In the light of the war in Ukraine, we have decided to extend 2 gigawatts of nuclear power stations for a period of ten years. The federal government ensures that we invest in CO2-free energy sources, especially via wind at sea. As a reminder, we are globally the second country in capacity per inhabitant. Belgium has the ambition to quadruple the capacity of wind at sea to nearly 6 gigawatts by 2030 and 8 gigawatts by 2040. We prepare the capacity of the Princess Elisabeth zone from 3.1 to 3.5 gigawatt. Together with the Netherlands, Germany and Denmark, we make the North Sea the largest renewable power plant in Europe. I'm sure of three things. The windmills in the North Sea will be there faster than the new Dutch nuclear power plants. Windmills do not produce high radioactive nuclear waste, which remains very dangerous for more than 300,000 years. The windmills will never be at the root of a nuclear disaster, as we have unfortunately already known in Chernobyl or Fukushima. In addition, in accordance with Article 194 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, each Member State has the right to choose between different energy sources or the general structure of its energy supply. As a minister, I respect the European treaties and I therefore respect this right of the Netherlands. In addition, of course, the Directive 2011/92EU of 13 December on the assessment of the environment of certain public and private projects, which is well-known to us under Objectives 1 and 2, is also applicable. Therefore, I have no doubt that the Netherlands will apply the environmental impact assessment procedure correctly, so that every concerned citizen, and not just ministers, will have the opportunity to express his concerns. I spoke with Mr Jetten yesterday. Above all, we have talked about our situation regarding gas supplies and the fact that today we are exporting to the Netherlands and Germany to the maximum, and how we can protect ourselves together against the high prices and a possible supply problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u58	I welcome the contacts, to the extent that you always protect against the risks of nuclear. It is, of course, a very important matter, which has our attention. This week's Economist gives an extensive analysis of the energy challenges. It also mentions the number of deaths per tetrawattage according to the energy sources. For coal and oil it is between 15 and 25 for gas at 4 and for nuclear and wind at 0.03 or 0.04. I want to avoid misunderstandings and admit that nuclear energy is not a blessing either. Interestingly, the article also mentions the limitations and challenges. A challenge I did not know is not only that there is a long lead time and that there are corresponding costs, but that the rising interest costs will also have an impact on the choices we make. I insist that we should perhaps bear in mind that the best and cheapest solution is always to extend the life of existing nuclear power plants in terms of energy supplies. This is not in the coalition agreement or in the agreement you concluded in the first quarter. I hope with you that we will not be forced to rethink this legislative period or the next one. I think there is over-optimism about the geopolitical situation or about the speed and cost of the transition to renewable energy. It is nice to electrify, but if no connections can be knotted, it doesn't help much. So it's being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic833x.u59	Thank you for your presence and close the sitting.
