ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic755x.u1	Mr Minister, the Council of Ministers of 25 February approved a draft of your proposal to amend the allocation of the amount for the two funds operating in the field of basic research. Of the 40 million euros, almost 21 million euros will go to the Scientific Research Fund (FWO) and just over 19 million euros will go to the National de la Récherche Scientifique (FNRS). Do you impose certain research themes when awarding these grants, as they come from the revenues of the RSZ? If so, which one? The distribution of resources is disproportionate to the share of Dutch speakers and French speakers in the population. Why does the FNRS receive significantly more federal subsidies?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic755x.u2	Funding for the creation of research mandates in the field of basic research is one of the tasks of the RSZ. Since 1 January 2007, the RSZ has issued annually an index-linked amount of €31 million to employers active in the field of basic research. That amount is distributed between the FNRS and the FWO as determined by law. The legal basis of that measure can be found, on the one hand, in Title 4, Chapter 12 of the Programme Act of 27 December 2006 and, on the other hand, in the Royal Decree of 29 January 2007 implementing that Chapter 12. The Federal Science Policy Council (FRWB) checks, in accordance with Article 3 of the RB, that the projects for which mandates have been allocated relate to fundamental research within the meaning of Article 188, 3° of the law. The law includes an activity aimed at shifting scientific and technical knowledge without industrial or commercial objectives. The Federal Science Policy Council has three months to inform the RSZ of the results of this research. If the Federal Science Policy Council has not ruled within this period, all mandates are supposed to be covered by fundamental research, to prove otherwise. The RSZ shall, in accordance with the procedures laid down by the King, monitor the creation of additional relations in the field of fundamental research in relation to the year 2006, and, if necessary, ensure the recovery of the amounts allocated which would not have been spent on mandates covered by the fundamental research. As I have just said, I think it is important that the employment measures in the form of an exemption from RSZ contributions facilitate the employment of mandate holders, PhD holders or post-doctoral staff, in the framework of basic scientific research. This is important not only for direct employment through these mandates, but especially in view of the importance of fundamental research for our economy, and thus derived from employment throughout our country. As often said, knowledge is our only raw material. In my opinion, the Fonds National de la Recherche Scientifique and the Fonds voor Scientifice Onderzoek Vlaanderen are best placed to deter research themes for supported fundamental research. Secondly, the way in which the allocation of the amount of 31 million - an amount to be indexed - is calculated each year is laid down in Article 189 (3) of the Programme Act of 27 December 2006. The RSZ calculates the distribution between the two institutions on the basis of the personal and patronial social security contributions paid on the one hand by the FNRS and the FRIA and on the other hand by the FWO - formerly the IWT, now integrated into the FWO - for the doctorandi and postdoctorandi they have recruited for the research projects in question. On the basis of the social security contributions paid for these researchers in respect of the year N-2, the RSZ calculates for year N the percentage share in this 31 million euro of the FNRS on the one hand and the FWO on the other. The amount of the allowance paid to the FWO and the FNRS in year N is therefore proportional to the social security contributions paid by them in year N-2. The RSZ shall notify each year of the calculated distribution to the FPS Social Security Office, which shall publish the KB, which shall include the amount of the allowance for the two institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic755x.u3	Minister, it is absolutely positive that we are investing in research. The EESC also welcomes the introduction of rules on the granting of grants. It will not surprise you that our party is quite critical of more and more transfers, even if only a few million euros are involved. The FNRS is less subsidised from the French-speaking side than the Flemish FWO. Of course, the federal government cannot be expected to receive the disinterest of the Walloon government. There can certainly be extra investment in research, but with a fair distribution of resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic755x.u4	Minister, when discussing your policy paper, I had already asked you a few questions about the evaluation of the sui generis status for reception parents. We introduced this in 2003. The administrations concerned have now made their analyses. As a result, there would now be a better view of the positive aspects of the Statute. But the analysis should also show the bottlenecks. You said that you would also present the analysis to the social partners in a second phase, so that they could also make proposals for improvement on that basis. Experience shows that improvements in the reform of the Staff Regulations are imperative. I still receive a lot of emails from reception parents who are worried about their social rights. In some cases, it is about very poignant situations. I have already noted a number of problems, such as the limited pension rights, but also problems surrounding the progressive resumption of reception parents. I have a few questions for you about that. What are the main conclusions to be drawn from the evaluation report of the relevant administrations? Could you also pass the evaluation on to Parliament? Will you also come here at some point to explain this to Parliament, in this committee? You indicated that you would discuss the evaluation with the relevant ministers, both at federal and Community level. Is that what happened in the meantime? Then what are the next steps? Have you already asked for and received advice from the social partners? What proposals do they propose for improvement? Are you going to work on the proposals of the social partners? Will you then come to Parliament with a proposal, a draft law or an amendment to the Statute?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic755x.u5	Mrs Lanjri, you know that I have divided the evaluation of the sui generis status for reception parents into two phases. In the first phase, the federal administrations concerned prepared an analysis paper under the coordination of the Social Security Office. It serves as preparation for the second phase, namely the evaluation by the social partners in the National Labour Council (NAC). The analysis paper was delivered and explained to the relevant policy cells at federal and Community level. The main observation is that the policy of the various Communities is aimed at employing reception parents in the future with a regular contract of employment. In the long term, therefore, the sui generis statute will fade out, but this will not happen as soon as possible in all the Communities. In the French Community, reception parents have been employed with an employment contract since 2018. By 2025, this should also be the case for all reception parents who are still working under the sui generis statute. In the Flemish Community, a pilot project will run until 31 March 2023 in which a certain number of reception parents will be employed with a contract of employment. The German-speaking Community has decided to complete the reform of childcare by 2023. As part of this reform, the reception parents of the current sui generis statute are to move to an employee statute. There is, however, a transitional provision for reception parents who wish to retain sui generis status for tax reasons. Another observation is that the reality in the field in the various Communities does not correspond to the federal framework. For the calculation of social contributions and benefits, the federal regulations take into account the care of 4 children, while in Flanders up to 8 children can be taken care of. At the end of November, I asked the National Labour Council to give its opinion on the status sui generis of reception parents by the end of March at the latest, inter alia on the basis of this preparatory administrative analysis. However, the social partners have not yet completed their discussions. During the work, they asked the competent administrations for additional information, with the result that the opinion is now expected by the end of May at the latest. Pending the opinion of the social partners, I will already deliver the preliminary administrative note, as you requested, to the members of this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic755x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and also for the steps that have already been taken. This is a long-term work. We know, of course, that there are differences in the approach in the different Communities. If all the host parents are employed, this does not mean that there is no negligible cost. Some welcome parents are not to be found for that. On the one hand, therefore, I understand the reluctance of some welcome parents. On the other hand, this means that they are not always adequately protected in the social field. I would also like to thank you for giving us the note that has been made. So I can go over it, and I will ask you a question about it again at the end of May, when the advice of the social partners is available. Once we have been able to read that opinion, I will look at what proposals you will be working on. I believe that it is in the interests of the host parents that we quickly improve their status.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic755x.u7	I already asked you a number of questions last year about the impact of living together on benefits and benefits. Anyone who receives a replacement income or benefit and by living together, loses all or part of his benefit and sees income fall below the poverty line is waiting for an improvement in the situation. Not only does he or she contribute to his benefit, but also loses other social benefits such as the increased allowance or the social tariff for gas and electricity. The fact that living together brings economies of scale makes sense. That's often why people, sometimes friends, move in together. But these economies of scale must not be overestimated and must be differentiated in the light of the loss of income. Today people are actively discouraged from moving in together, because they often lose more by living together than they win by scaling up. In July, you indicated that a working group had been set up in accordance with the government agreement to study the issue of living together. The working of that working group had been delayed by the outbreak of the corona crisis. We are now more than six months later. What progress has the working group made in examining the different forms of society and its impact on benefits and replacement income? Has the evaluation been completed yet? If not, what deadline is set? What conclusions has the working group been able to draw on the basis of a national and international comparison of implicit equivalence scales in Belgian social protection? What initiatives will you take on the basis of the comprehensive evaluation to address the negative effects? What timeline do you keep in mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic755x.u8	Mrs Lanjri, the first phase of the study initiated by the Social Security Office has been completed and will be discussed with public social security institutions in the near future. The first part of the study sets out the legal, sociological, historical and statistical data on cohabitation in order to highlight the problems associated with the status of cohabitant in the field of social protection. An invitation will soon be sent to set up a working group, together with various public institutions, including public social security institutions. The aim of the working group is to discuss the first part of the study prepared by the Social Security Office and to make a reflection exercise on possible slopes and solutions to solve the problems related to the statute, so that we can submit the necessary reform proposals to the competent authorities. The question of which reforms will eventually be implemented in relation to the Statute will be the subject of subsequent political discussions. I do not wish to anticipate that now, Mrs Lanjri.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic755x.u9	Minister, last year in June you replied to me that a working group had been set up and that it was working around it, but that there had been a little delay. Now you reply that a working group will soon be set up. Apparently, that working group was not set up in June last year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic755x.u10	I always base myself on what the administration is preparing for me. I assume that was actually said in good faith last year. There may be confusion and the group I spoke about last year was the group that made the study. I may have said something that was premature at the time, but it may also be that it was about the group that made the study in the Social Security Office. I'll clear up the matter. I'm sorry myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic755x.u11	I fully understand the fact that things sometimes slow down because of the corona crisis, but last year I had wanted to see some progress in the matter, because people who are going to live together are really waiting for a settlement in view of the many disadvantages today. Now, almost a year later, we find that not only are we not yet finished, but that the working party has even to be set up. I'm a little disappointed about that. I suggest that you take a look at the situation and give me that answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic755x.u12	We will look into which working groups we are talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic755x.u13	I'm sure you'll ask me to speed things up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic755x.u14	My interpretation is correct. That's confirmed. The working group I spoke about last time is the working group that wrote the report. That was just a working party of the FPS Social Security. There will now be a working group which is much more extensive, with the institutions of social security. So I was right, but it concerns two different working groups. However, I do understand that you think it is progressing slowly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic755x.u15	The matter cannot now go from one working group to another. We must ensure that at some point buttons are cut. I will ask you a question about this again shortly, and I hope that the working group will then be a little further and have worked out some proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic755x.u16	Mr Minister, in many cases caregivers such as the elderly, chronically ill and people with disabilities receive support for voluntary care. This is an indispensable part of home care. The volunteers will ensure that caretakers can stay in their familiar home environment for as long as possible. Efforts have already been made for these volunteers in recent years. For example, the previous government increased the flat-rate voluntary allowance by a 2018 KB. On the ground, however, there are signs that the limits are not enough to meet the needs of care. Many people who volunteer as day or night nanny would reach the limit of EUR 2.652.98 per year for the voluntary allowance by mid 2022. This could jeopardise the continuity of care, as other people need to be deployed to meet the needs of care. When there is a shortage of babysitters, it is no longer possible to continue to accommodate the people at home and an inclusion in residential care is inevitable. In the original law on association work the function of day- and night-care was included. This is no longer the case in the current legislation. We were all in favour of a restriction to the socio-cultural sector and the sports sector. I have a number of questions on this because we need to be vigilant. Have you had contact with the home care sector on this issue? In what form? What was the outcome of any consultation? In what way do you intend to respond to the concerns of the sector, especially the night-care provider? Are you working on an extension of the law on association work, possibly through Article 17, to solve this problem? Is that an option?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic755x.u17	Madam President, Mrs De Jonge, in the context of the discussion on the extension of the temporary arrangements for the association work, an opinion was requested, as you know, from the competent Joint Committee No. 319 on the possible extension to day- and night-care activities. The social partners unanimously gave a negative opinion. The government has therefore decided not to include those activities in the proposal that led to the Law of 20 July 2021 which provided for the extension of the association work to the socio-cultural sector. The social partners also unanimously requested in their opinion 2.236 of the National Labour Council on 13 July 2021 that their scope be limited to activities in the sport and socio-cultural sectors. We have followed the social partners, as you know. You have already mentioned that we discussed and approved the final arrangements for association work in the Committee on Social Affairs just before the crocus holiday. I think I can say that everyone was relieved that this definitive arrangement was put in place and that everyone agreed that there was a need for stability in the first place. I do not therefore foresee an extension of the new definitive arrangements for association work, but, as I said in the debate with you, we will evaluate this scheme in due course. I would like to remind you that I asked the High Council for Volunteers to propose subjects for the study on volunteering. In the meantime, the Supreme Court has questioned its members and is currently finalizing its reply. The amount of the flat-rate expenses will probably be dealt with as a subject. When I have received these proposals for study, I will ask the FPS Social Security Office to issue a tender for the study.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic755x.u18	Minister, I fully understand that. We have had the debate on the scope and the social partners have indeed asked us to limit it to that. However, we must not forget that continuity is extremely important for this vulnerable group and that this is threatened by the limits of volunteering. When they are reached, it is often difficult to find new people. The sector is already experiencing problems and is calling the alarm bell. In the past this was indeed within the scope of the association work, but the new regulation has limited it. There is also a need for a framework for this sector. The sector really clashes with its limits and says that the number of volunteers is very limited and that it is difficult to employ new people each time. It is good that this can be evaluated. I also welcome the fact that a study will be requested through the Social Security Office to see how we can resolve this and that the High Council for Volunteers will also be involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic755x.u19	Mr. Secretary, it was written in the stars. What we have said here on several occasions about the long-term sick is once again confirmed. According to a study by the IDD, almost one in five new jobs between 2014 and 2019 turns out to be a job to replace a sick employee. One in five with a new contract of employment actually starts in a job because the predecessor had become ill or had dropped out. We can even assume that a lot of back-to-work paths will eventually lead to a deer job in such impossible jobs. Of course I know that there are many more vacancies than just those new jobs, but it shows once again that we are failing to tackle the causes and are therefore stuck in a street without an end. I have a number of questions to ask. Do you recognize this problem? Will this government also address the causes and take measures to improve jobs? How do you intend, under your authority, to break this vicious circle?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic755x.u20	As you yourself have indicated, the figure of 20% of recruitments that would serve to fill absences due to illness of other workers is an estimate by Professor Philippe Defeyt based on the evolution of the number of people in incapacity for work, under the assumption that these persons will be replaced to fill in their workplace. The sharp increase in the number of employees and civil servants in primary disability and disability over the last 15 years has been a long-standing phenomenon. In previous publications, the RIZIV identified the following underlying factors: the ageing of the working population, the increasing employment rate of women, the change in the regulations on other retirement schemes, such as the SWT, the raising of the retirement age and the recognition of new diseases. What Professor Defeyt points out is unfortunately a consequence of the rising trend of people in long-term incapacity for work. However, it is very short to say that this would always be due to poor working conditions at the workplace. The suggestion that the return-to-work routes would result in a flow to occupations with sickening characteristics seems to me to be quite out of the question, especially since these return-to-work routes and the resumption of work associated with them are voluntary. In the meantime, an average of 70,000 employees with a disability on a voluntary basis have resumed working in the progressive work system. For this progressive work resumptions, the medical consultant will examine in advance whether the employment is compatible with the health situation of the persons concerned. I do not, of course, want to say that there should not be any more use for prevention and adapted working conditions. The competence for this lies primarily with my colleague responsible for Work, within the framework of the regulations on safety and well-being at work. Together with him and our colleague responsible for civil service matters and with our colleague responsible for the Self-employed, I am working on a federal plan on mental well-being at work. The group of people who fail due to mental health problems is growing. Through this plan we want to draw up a specific policy and develop concrete actions. In his request for advice on the legal texts on reintegration policy with the own employer at the NAR and the High Council for Prevention and Protection at Work, my colleague, the Minister for Work, also recalled his request of June 2021 for concrete recommendations on collective reintegration policy. As you are no doubt aware, when discussing the 2020 budget, the government also decided on my proposal to impose a specific response contribution from 2023 on companies with excessive influx of workers into long-term incapacity. Following a cross-section by the KSZ of the data provided by the RSZ, I now have data that allow me to begin the debate on how the values x and y............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ We're not there yet. But we are on the verge of this discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-20-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic755x.u21	Minister, that is another small step forward. I still do not understand why this government is having such a hard time naming and actually tackling the causes of long-term illness. You're talking to a thoroughbred syndicalist. I know the situation on the ground. They won't be qualitative jobs. You'll just replace it in places where there are worse jobs, which will lead to failure again. According to you, the employer will be flagged back and fined. However, this only applies if there are more than 50 employees. In companies with more than 50 employees there is usually a CPBW. If there is a CPBW, the union still has some influence in the company, although it may be larger. It's gonna cost real money. We need to invest money in this. However, I do not feel that the government will do so. However, prevention policy is the only way to tackle the root problem and prevent long-term ill in the future.
