ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u1	Madam President, Secretary of State, first of all, I wish you all the best for the year 2022, hoping that this year will be more normal than in previous years and that we will overcome this pandemic which has complicated our lives in recent times. That said, on Thursday, 30 September, you were questioned in plenary about the project to deploy smart cameras in Leuven in order to follow the sports behaviour of the inhabitants. In particular, you were asked to give an opinion on the proportionality of this deployment with regard to the laws on the protection of personal data. I note that you did not answer the question clearly, rather referring to your upcoming evaluation of data protection laws. However, this is an important issue. The use of smart cameras for trivial reasons such as the study of people's sporting behaviour, through a call to a private firm, raises a real question with regard to citizens' privacy. I would therefore like to ask you specific questions and get a clear position from you: what is the legal basis for this data processing? Does this deployment of cameras seem to you to pursue a legitimate objective, to be proportionate, and to respect the other principles of data protection? Have you contacted the city of Leuven to clarify this situation? Have you taken a clear position against this project?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u2	Mr President, thank you for your question. First of all, I would also like to present to you here in this Chamber, but also to the colleagues present in virtual form, my best wishes. I would also like to tell you, Mr Boukili, that your new hairstyle is going to delight you, really! I don't know what happened, but I hope that many positive changes will take place in 2022. As for the legal basis for the use of so-called smart or non-smart cameras, it is based on the law of 21 March 2007 regulating the installation and use of surveillance cameras. It was amended in 2018 to take account of technological developments in this area as best as possible. Smart cameras are clearly defined as surveillance cameras that also include components as well as software that, whether or not coupled with registers or files, can independently process the collected images. Their use is also clearly defined. In this case, it is up to the data controller to demonstrate to what extent the use of smart cameras meets the criteria of the law. With regard to the legitimate, proportionate and consistent objective of data protection, I refer to the ODA which, in the context of the use of smart cameras, has already delivered opinions, in particular concerning the installation by the autonomous provincial company Westhoek of a network of smart cameras on the Belgian coast in order to measure the influx. For my part, I have already stressed on several occasions here, transparency must be at the heart of data processing. Each of the steps of collection at treatment must not only be done in accordance with the laws and GDPR, but also, if it proves to be based on a legal basis, be the least intrusive possible in the privacy of people in relation to the objective pursued.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer and for your clarification. I would add that the use of such technologies continues to pose a threat to privacy. In our country, the issue of privacy and data protection is a major problem. The use of this kind of technology can drive the nails of non-respect for privacy. I particularly expect you, given your expertise in this area, to take care of this kind of problem and, above all, to ensure, whatever the use made of technology, the protection of privacy. This is fundamental to the functioning of our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, at the end of October you announced that you have contacts with ethical hackers to ensure the cyber security of the services. This is a step forward that can have a positive impact on the digital security of our government and the population. In your answer to a previous question I asked you about the use of ethical hackers to protect personal data in government databases, you stated that "one of the biggest stumbling blocks is liability in case of problems during the conduct of penetration tests by an ethical hacker whose identity is not easily verified, whether it is harmed during the test, for example in terms of availability or data integrity, or possible abuse that is detected subsequently on the basis of the knowledge acquired about the weaknesses in the infrastructures or procedures tested." Hence a number of very specific questions. Which government programmes or public services will be specifically screened? What kind of information does these additional checks seek to secure? What solutions have been found for the liability problems you mentioned? How will the findings of the tests carried out by ethical hackers be documented? How will this information be used to further ensure the digital security of these and other services? Which professional consultancy firm is involved in supporting quality assurance?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u5	Mr Van Hecke, I confirm the current position of the FOD BOSA on the use of ethical hackers and the response I gave you in June 2021. The FOD BOSA has studied the possibility of using ethical hackers. One of the biggest stumbling blocks has always been liability in case of problems during the conduct of penetration tests by an ethical hacker, whose identity is not easily verified, for example when it comes to damage done during the test. In your question you refer to an interview at the end of October and my exact words were: "We have contacts, but that's all I want to say." In order to clarify my statement and without going into detail, I can say that we use consultancy companies that carry out security audits for our different departments. Those audit companies use different means to evaluate our security systems, including ethical hackers. I'm open-minded and I never rule out a chance to improve a process. If ethical hackers can improve our security systems, that's an opportunity. Which public programmes and public services will be screened will depend on the needs of the various departments and the type of information they wish to secure with this control. Potentially, all information can be investigated. The responsibility lies with the audit firm or audit firm which must meet very strict safety criteria. How will the findings of the tests carried out by ethical hackers be documented? Now, the information and results collected by the audit firm are transmitted in the form of comprehensive reports. For reasons of confidentiality, the name of the audit firms cannot be disclosed here. We can come back to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, we have indeed based ourselves on the interview you gave and I understand that you cannot disclose all the details publicly. I think the challenge is particularly great. In recent years, information, regardless of whether it comes from private or public companies, has been shown to be desirable and efforts are being made to obtain information by entering systems. As a government, we must make the necessary and sufficient efforts to keep the level of security as high as possible. I think it is logical that we should be given professional support in this respect. The fact that ethical hackers are also used can indeed be a very interesting option. I think there is a lot of know-how in our country, we have good ethical hackers. Of course, there must be answers to all possible problems, including legal ones, that can arise, but ethical hackers can bring added value to expose data leaks, errors or weaknesses in the systems. We therefore encourage you to continue to work on this. We hope that the often very sensitive public sector information can be better protected against people with evil intentions. Thank you for your commitment. We also wish you every success in this programme.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u7	Madam President, Secretary of State, "we have constantly had to fight against a fundamentalism of privacy". These are not the words of an authoritarian leader or a government representative who would make fun of fundamental freedoms; these are the words of the Minister of Health, Mr. Frank Vandenbroucke, in an interview given to the magazine of Christian mutuality. With this quote, the minister points the finger at those who worry about possible drifts in the management of Belgian personal data. It creates a contradiction between public health and privacy, while these two notions should go hand in hand. Finally, it is very serious for Mr Vandenbroucke to take such action at the Data Protection Authority (DPA). It is an independent body that does not receive orders from persons. It is intolerable that it should be called fundamentalism. Secretary of State, what is your reaction to Minister Vandenbroucke's statement? Do you think, like him, that privacy is a hindrance to the fight against the pandemic?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u8	Mr President, the democratic debate must not be that of polemics. So I will not speak on these points. If these disturb you, as seems to be the case, I invite you to first question its author. I note one thing: respect for privacy is essential in our country, regardless of circumstances and imperatives. You are speaking to a Liberal, Mr Boukili, who has the principle that freedom is fundamental and non-negotiable. Our freedom is now being tested under just but sometimes unproportional pretexts. We must strike the right balance between individual freedoms and the general interest. That's our task.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for this answer, even if it does not make a clear statement on what I have said. These words go beyond polemic, which is not my objective. They have an impact, in reality, on government policy. I would just like to take the example of the cooperation agreement on the CST, for which the Council of State had recommended an ODA opinion. The minister had refused and you yourself told me in this House that this opinion was not necessary because it was a technical amendment. The Namur court ruled that the cooperation agreement was illegal, in particular because it did not seek the opinion of ODA. Even the Court of Appeal of Liège, which has reviewed the judgment of the Namur Court, maintains that the illegality aspect of the non-application of the ODA opinion remains valid. When the Minister of Health makes such a statement, it has concrete consequences and an impact on his policy. I understand that, for you, privacy remains an essential element. But believe me, that's not what we see in the rest of the government. I would like to point out that the issue of ODA has been under management for more than a year. Our government tramples on fundamental rights, does not respect and does not protect privacy, even though that is its role. I wonder, Secretary of State, how you manage to work, when you are supposed to guarantee the protection of privacy, in a government that does not respect it in front of the public, in front of parliamentarians and in the face of justice. It's serious! So these words are far from being a mere controversy. These are political statements that have a material impact on the lives of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u10	I don't have any more answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u11	Madam President, when I heard that the Secretary of State was coming to answer the questions, I took the opportunity to do so so that he would not come for nothing! Secretary of State, the e-box system recently – before the holidays – was pinned in the press. It is a kind of e-mail box that allows many public services such as CPAS or the tax administration to send their e-mails to citizens who request it. As part of the Coronavirus crisis, a large number of people have registered to receive their invitations for vaccination. The problem is that registration and consent to this service are given "block". Once you are registered to receive, for example, invitations for the vaccine, you are registered for all services affiliated with e-box. You will no longer receive fines or mail from a CPAS in paper form, but only on e-box. On two occasions, the Commission for the Protection of Privacy and the Data Protection Authority have insisted on the need to be able to give their consent selectively, for example to say that invitations to vaccination can be received on e-box, but fines by mail. Despite these reviews, this feature does not appear to have been integrated into e-box. In addition, such a system raises questions about the centralization of data and their security. Why is the possibility of giving selective consent not open? What action has been taken on OPC and ODA advice in this regard? Does the solution of a "block" consent respect the principle of the minimization of data? Are the data on e-box centralized with the same provider? Are Smals or the Banque Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale involved in this platform and at what level? Where are the data hosted and what security measures are taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u12	Mr Boukili, thank you for your question. With regard to consent, article 6 of the e-box law provides that natural persons may have given their prior and express consent to the electronic exchange of messages via the e-box and may withdraw such consent at any time. We're in an opt-in configuration. The citizen therefore explicitly agrees to use e-box. This consent is actually given in a global way for the use of the e-box tool. Currently, it is not possible for the user to select senders according to their choices. Today, there are nearly 250 shippers; this number is expected to increase significantly in the coming years and could complicate selective use of the e-box. However, we are currently working on an option as you mention it, at the sender level, that could effectively address this issue. The citizen could choose from whom he or she wishes to receive messages or documents via e-box or in hard copy. In addition, alongside the consent given when the e-box is activated, the citizen will receive a notification when any new sender is added. It may at any time decide to withdraw its consent by recipient. On issues of data centralization, data are not centralized by the e-box. Messages displayed via e-box are stored at the sender or his document provider under the responsibility of the sender. Each sender may choose to have one or more document providers that manage the messages. The BOSA FPS can play this role for some shippers at their request and under their responsibility. The other suppliers of documents are the Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale Bank via the Smals, the Federal Pension Office and the Digital Flanders MAGDA Mailing Service. In all cases, the sender is responsible for the messages and determines the retention times of the messages. Notifications sent when a new message is available in the citizen e-box are processed centrally by the BOSA SPF. However, such technical notifications shall not contain sensitive information. They only inform about the fact that a message has arrived in the electronic box but do not contain the content of the message. At the explicit request of the citizen, notifications are translated by My e-box or by the service provider chosen by the citizen into a notification to the citizen, e.g. by e-mail or SMS. Finally, at the level of data protection, each document provider must take appropriate technical and organisational measures to protect the data from accidental or unlawful destruction, accidental loss and from unauthorized alteration or access to such data and any other unauthorized processing of such data. In addition, the BOSA FPS requires and supervises that each new document provider be subject to a security audit, including a penetration test, before they can be included in the e-box network. Data protection for document providers is ensured by a combination of firewalls, encrypted connections, encrypted data, data anonymization and storage of data on the file system with special protection in the areas of availability, authenticity, integrity and preservation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. Having this consent in advance, of course, but as a whole, is a problem. In fact, many people are reluctant to have their e-mails about vaccination, especially because they do not want to give their consent for all mails. You're telling me there's going to be a selective consent system. That goes in the right direction. The implementation of this change will be closely monitored. One element that gets my attention is the involvement of Smals in this project that concerns data. I always ask myself whether it is normal for a BLSO such as Smals to be involved in this kind of program that meets all the problems of independence and conflict of interest that we know. In the previous question, you said that data and privacy protection is essential in our society. However, when I see the involvement of Smals in such cases, I wonder whether this is consistent with the fact that we want to pay particular attention to data protection. In any case, that raises the question. If we want to be careful, we must, above all, avoid the involvement of these kinds of organizations which are tainted by conflicts of interest and problems of independence and which are involved in many scandals, as we have seen in recent months.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u14	Mrs Jaspar, one of the five directors of the GBA, resigned a few weeks ago. Her letter of resignation contains very strong words: "I have done everything I can to prevent conflict of interest and lack of integrity, but everyone is late. I don't want to be an accessory to this." This does not exactly reflect a positive picture of the situation at the GBA knowledge centre, which has been ordered to screen legislative proposals on privacy issues and to ensure that citizens' data are protected. Ms Jaspar stated that her service could not function because some Members had double hats on. For this she refers in particular to Mr Frank Robben. It also states that the chairman of the GBA, Mr David Stevens, is doing everything possible not to defend the privacy of citizens. Rather, he defends the interests of certain bodies, organisations and powerful people, says Mrs Jaspar. Such revelations are particularly problematic, not only for the credibility of the GBA, but also for the functioning of the service. What is your response to Mrs Jaspar's remarks? Will you arrange a meeting with her so that the content of her complaint can be acted in detail? What will you do with Mrs Jaspar's statements? What impact will you have on the recommendations in the audit of the Court of Auditors? Will you investigate the functioning of the GBA in general and the functioning of the directors in particular? When can we finally expect concrete solutions here?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u15	Mrs Bury, the situation with the Data Protection Authority, a body set up by the Chamber, was the subject of inquiry in committee here. Several directors of the GBA were called upon to apply Article 45 of the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority. I will not judge the way in which Parliament deals with the matter. My role is to provide a legislative solution to a more structural problem. I'm not sitting still. There was already an evaluation of the privacy law and it was submitted to the committee. Furthermore, my cabinet is currently working on a reform of the Law of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority. I am convinced that the reform will strengthen confidence in the institution, which is essential for the protection of all citizens' data.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u16	Mr Secretary of State, for over a year the operation has simply been flattened. You say that we are in the process of reform, but you do not have a deadline. The interplay was addressed to the Minister of Justice, but was forwarded to you. In it we ask for a solution to be found together and for decisions to be taken, because we need to get out of the impasse. Then a special committee will be set up in accordance with the article you mentioned. We cannot say anything about this because the procedure is internal, but nothing happens there either. No decisions are made or other people are put at the helm. If there is a lack of legislation, it is up to you to do something about it. You cannot confine yourself to saying that you do not judge Parliament's behaviour in the file. If Parliament has to row with the strings it has, but the belts are not there, then it is up to you to work out a solution and to help us. I have therefore tabled a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u17	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Katleen Bury and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Katleen Bury and the reply of the Secretary of State for Digitisation, responsible for Administrative Simplification, Privacy and the Management of Buildings, attached to the Prime Minister, - whereas, in view of the tasks assigned to it by the GBA, the importance of the Data Protection Authority cannot be recognised or minimised, - whereas it is therefore particularly important to avoid internal conflicts, personal conflicts and conflicting strategic choices regarding the operation of the service; - whereas it is particularly damaging not only for the image of the service but also for its operation that a service designed, inter alia, to protect the personal data of citizens is proposed as an association of interest involving interest groups; - whereas all the statements made by a resigning director should be examined in full on the merits of the truth, and a thorough review should also be carried out in the short term, accompanied by an assessment from and within the GBA; - whereas only decisive action can restore faith in the service; asks the government an immediate, well-thought-out and functioning overall plan, accompanied by the review and evaluation of the GBA, both in the short, medium and long term, so that not only the existing problems can be identified but can also be addressed." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Katleen Bury and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Katleen Bury and the response of the Secretary of State for Digitalisation, in charge of Administrative Simplification, Privacy and Buildings Administration, Assistant to the Prime Minister, - Whereas the importance of the Data Protection Authority cannot be underestimated or minimized, taking into account the tasks entrusted to it; - Whereas it is therefore particularly important to avoid any conflicting internal disagreements, personal conflicts and strategic choices regarding the functioning of this service; - Whereas it is particularly harmful, not only for its image, but also for its operation, that a service, whose mission is to protect citizens' personal data, should be presented as a group of interests which is intelligence with such associations; - Whereas all statements made by a resigning director must, without delay and with a view to establishing the truth, be fully investigated on the merits, and that an in-depth audit, together with an assessment of ODA and within it, must also be carried out in the near future; - Whereas only firm intervention can restore confidence in this service; asks the government to draw up a well-considered and operational comprehensive plan immediately, accompanied by an audit and evaluation of ODA, both short- and medium-term and long-term, in order not only to identify existing problems, but also to address them." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Philippe Pivin. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Philippe Pivin. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u18	Madam President, Secretary of State, today expires the notice addressed to Belgium by the European Commission to put an end to conflicts of interest within the Data Protection Authority (DPA). If the problem has not been resolved, our country risks a condemnation by the Court of Justice of the European Union. At this stage, and unless I am mistaken, no steps have been taken to exclude persons denounced by the Commission who exercise public mandates and participate in government task forces while being members of ODA, which is clearly contrary to the General Data Protection Regulation. Mr Secretary of State, do you assume political responsibility for non-compliance with European demands? What steps have you taken to solve these problems? Why has the deadline given by the Commission not been respected?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u19	Madam President, honourable Member, the question of the incompatibility raised by the European Commission for which an outcome was to be found by 12 January is the responsibility of the House with which the Data Protection Authority is established. In other words, the designation and possible conflicts of interest of some ODA members are the sole responsibility and responsibility of the House. As I pointed out in my previous answer, my role in this matter is legistic. I have provided, through the evaluation of the Privacy Act, avenues for addressing the problems faced by ODA that I am transposing today into a draft bill. Indeed, following the Privacy Assessment Report that I introduced to you in November 2021, work began on a draft bill to amend the December 3, 2017 ODA Act. The evaluation stressed the need to strengthen, as a matter of priority, the governance of the Data Protection Authority and the independent exercise of its tasks and powers. This preliminary draft law is intended to respond to the recommendations of the evaluation report and is based on three main areas: strengthening the functioning of ODA, strengthening its independence and strengthening the pragmatic approach and the sectoral expertise of ODA. Let me also answer Mr. From Smet, even if the latter is not present. The draft bill goes, in fact, even further than the bill that was envisaged a few months ago with regard to the role of external experts. In particular, a general guarantee is introduced as regards the independence of the Data Protection Authority in that experts will no longer be able to participate in any decision-making process in the performance of their tasks. In other words, they will not have a deliberative voice and they will not be allowed to co-edit draft opinions and recommendations. The implementation of this bill, which I hope will succeed, will solve all the elements pointed out by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u20	Mr Secretary of State, if I have addressed this question to you, it is because the European Commission has sent you its letter as responsible for this competence; it has not sent it to Parliament. It is Parliament's competence, of course, but we know that there is a difference between theory and practice. I do not hide from you, Secretary of State, that the parliamentary majority acts according to the needs and desires of the majority government. So when this one doesn't do the work on this issue, it's because the government doesn't have an agreement on this issue. It is necessary to be naive not to see this correlation between the two. And this majority, your party is part of it. The president of your party had even said that he wanted to exclude Mr Robben, quoted by the European Commission. Yet, nothing translates into reality. You're in charge of privacy protection. You are coming with a draft bill to remedy this situation. I'm afraid you're opening the door to a second major problem. You may be aware of existing European case law in this area. A law cannot be amended during a term of office. One country had done so, Hungary. It was condemned by the European Court. We can't change the rules of the game during the game. That is what you are going to do with your bill. Moreover, I think that is not the right answer. There is an answer. This is section 45 of the ODA Act. Why not apply it for the people concerned? The answer is here. You mustn't look any further. Your preliminary draft will open the door to another problem, such as Hungary's.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u21	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State. We can end our round of questions with you here. We'll continue with the questions to the Minister of Justice in a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u22	Mrs Jiroflée is not yet here and it is unclear whether Mr Van Hecke will be able to return because he also has another committee meeting, but you can start your interview, Mrs Dillen.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u23	Madam President, Minister, I wish everyone my best wishes for a healthy, successful and hopefully simpler 2022. Minister, I have repeatedly questioned you about the difficult situation in our prisons, both in terms of overcrowding and the considerable shortage of staff. This has been a poignant problem for decades and, unfortunately, it is no different today. Again at the beginning of this year there was a twenty-four-hour strike in the prisons in Flanders and in Vorst. I dare say it was justified. The overcrowding continues and the staff shortage is not resolved. In principle, there is room for about 9,500 prisoners but at present there are more than 10,700. This actually means that there is no room for 1,200 prisoners. To alleviate the worst distress, a number of extra beds were placed, but the staff framework does not follow. The way in which those beds were placed raises questions. With four in a cell where there is room for two or eight where there is room for four, that is unfortunately no exception. Inmates must sleep on a mattress on the ground, the sanitary facilities are absolutely insufficient, to eat one has to place a plate on the toilet etc. That is unworthy of a civilized country, and we will undoubtedly agree on that. You said in a response that this situation is temporary, but that is not true. The problem has been dragging on for decades and there is still no structural solution. According to the trade unions, the situation varies in Flanders and Wallonia. In Wallonia, the problem would be somewhat less acute because there are more places available, although in relation to the population. There too, however, it remains a problem. The penitentiary officials are really tired of this compelling situation without any prospect of getting better. This is absolutely untenable for the staff. One sits on the gums, the working pressure is untenable. The difficult working conditions must be tackled urgently. There must also be an initiative to make the statute more attractive, because with new uniforms alone, as announced in the budget, you will not solve the problem. I'm sure you'll reply soon enough that there'll be new prisons. That's right, in Haren a new prison is opened with a capacity of about 1,200 places around the end of this year. At the same time, however, prisons in Brussels will close, with approximately the same capacity. The same goes for the new prison and the old prison in Dendermonde. Let us also remember that the prison in Ypres will close for renovations, which means that its prisoners will have to be transferred elsewhere. With the opening of Haren and Dendermonde you will not solve the capacity problem. The problem is not new, but a solution must be found urgently. You really need to work on a thorough plan of action and listen to the right cry from the penitentiary staff, which is now finally asking for a long-term solution in the foreseeable future. Minister, will you take urgent initiatives to increase capacity considerably, as the new prisons in Haren and Dendermonde will not suffice? Secondly, will you, on urgency, take an initiative to thoroughly improve the status of penitentiary staff and to improve the current very difficult working conditions? Thirdly, during the consultation, you announced that you will examine an increase in the staff framework by mid 2022. That's what we've heard. Can you give us a more detailed explanation? Fourthly, at the same time, you would like to add that research alone is not enough, but that concrete initiatives are needed to fill in and increase the staffing framework. What will you do about it? Fifthly, you are proud that you are very regularly present on the site and that you make frequent visits on the spot. I do not, of course, criticise this, which is very positive. However, the trade unions do not accept that you have, they say, never been present at the consultation. I quote: 'The fact that the Minister often talks to people on the ground is good, but it would be nice if he could also make time to sit down with the social partners in his busy agenda'. Is that right? If so, will you work on it and improve it? Finally, detention homes may provide a solution to the capacity problem for a number of detainees and under certain conditions. However, the realization of this does not seem to succeed. What's the status? Madam President, this concludes my speech. I believe that my request for an explanation of December 2021 on the strike commitment in the Antwerp prison and the consultation has been placed much further on today's agenda due to a mistake. She's actually about the same thing. I therefore assume that this question will be linked to my interplay. For that question I refer to the text tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u24	I thought I had heard that a number of questions, including the question in question and a question from me about the Brussels prison, were too specific to be taken into account in the general debate. The answers will be given afterwards. However, your question will be dealt with today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u25	Madam President, my best wishes to all of you and to the Minister. Minister, I regret to have to ask you for the second time in a month about a strike by prison officers. This time, it concerns all the prisons in the country, first Dutch-speaking, then French-speaking. The problem is that prison overcrowding and a staggering shortage of staff make the working conditions of staff extremely difficult. On 15 December last, in response to my questions on this subject, you again put forward the new prisons of Haren, Termonde, Antwerp or Bourg-Léopold as solutions. Except that either these prisons will only be established in several months or even years, or they will only replace the capacity of existing and too old prisons. In other words, the problem of prison overcrowding will not be solved, since for a total theoretical capacity of about 9,500 places, our prison system currently accommodates nearly 10,700 prisoners. This would require at least 1,200 additional basic places. You also made a commitment to execute the short sentences, first as early as December 2021, then as early as next June, which will cause the number of prisoners to explode in already overcrowded prisons. Minister, if recruitment procedures seem to be going well, how do you explain that the unions started a new strike to denounce the lack of staff? When will the advertised recruitments be effective? Will you suspend the execution of all short sentences while the announced prisons are operational? Finally, in several prisons, the minimum service staff threshold was not even reached during the strike. The Federal Institute for Human Rights and the CPSC had already warned last October that the conditions of the law of 23 March 2019 were rarely met to guarantee the rights of detainees during consecutive strikes. How do you explain that? When will the assessment of this law – which was to take place no later than one year after its entry into force – take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, first of all I would like to express my best wishes to everyone for the new year. That it may be a healthy year for all of us. Mr Minister, my question is in line with the previous one. It is clear that it has not been a quiet end of the year for the prison system. The situation in our prisons was once again at the centre of the stakes. I think that the penitentiary officials are very well understood when we see the overpopulation in our prisons today. I asked for the numbers, and you gave them to me. In the Antwerp prison alone there was an occupation of just less than 190 %. That's almost double the actual capacity. Moreover, the figures showed that there was a distortion between the Flemish and Walloon prisons as regards the overpopulation. We have to note that it is many times larger in Flanders. In the meantime, you have already taken a number of measures and in Antwerp the overpopulation has already fallen a little, although it is still at a much too high level. I am aware that there are no miracle solutions. We all know that. However, it is not a new situation either. What we need is a plan of action to deal with this in the short term and to improve it in the medium term. We have already had a lot of discussions about it, but apparently we are not getting through it or the approach is not getting through to the extent that there is a solution. You keep shielding with the new prisons. Additional capacity will be created by the end of this legislature. You and I know that this is not the solution in the short term. Firstly, they do not open immediately and secondly, the old prisons will close. A great gain will therefore not mean this either. You also know that the current overpopulation rate is higher than the new capacity you create. The detention homes are another option, but you and I know they won't be one-two-three either. Another question will be asked about this later. Moreover, they will not be suitable for every inmate, so that they will not be able to cope with the overpopulation. It is actually a record that lingers and is completely turned grey. We can't leave this like this. There's got to be a solution. What is the state of the Antwerp prison today in terms of overpopulation? Have any measures been taken since Christmas to reduce the overpopulation? The situation is not good in any prison. What measures have you taken in recent weeks to improve the situation in prisons? What's the status of the detention centers? If two or three detention homes were to be opened this year, they would already offer a hundred places. That is not enough, but those places are already there. I have already given you a number of possible measures to address the overpopulation and create additional capacity. Is the option to keep the old prisons open a little longer if that is possible? For example, the capacity can be increased at least temporarily and the execution of the sentence can continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u27	Mr Minister, on January 3 and 4, our prisons went through two successive 24-hour strikes, first in the north and in Brussels and then in the south of the country. The main motivations appear to be a lack of structural staffing, combined with significant overcrowding and difficult conditions of detention, which negatively affect the working conditions of prison staff. As I noted earlier, some actors in the field refer to managers in some institutions who would sometimes only be up to 70% of their maximum capacity. From the analysis of the budget that you presented, I note an increase of almost EUR 11 million in staff-related expenditure compared to last year and over 20 million compared to 2020, which we can welcome. Have you therefore identified all the staff currently in service in order to determine precisely, and in collaboration with the field, the overall human needs faced by the various prisons in our country? Are recruitments therefore envisaged in the coming year? Similarly, some report that there is a constant overpopulation to which no concrete solution is currently being made, as well as deplorable conditions of detention. You have planned for 2022, which is a very good idea, 8 million euros specifically dedicated to renovations. Very concretely, what is the timetable for the renovations planned for this year 2022? Is this timetable set in consultation with the players in the prison world and what has been their concrete input in relation to this? Finally, with regard to overcrowding, you have indicated in your reply to the discussions on the policy note that there would be close to 1,228 additional places by 2024 and 2,240 by 2028, through the establishment of new prisons and transitional houses. Do these figures take into account the closures of other institutions in the near future? Indeed, the actors on the ground are concerned about this alignment of two realities, the one that is announced and the one that is currently known.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u28	Minister, at the beginning of the year, two 24-hour strikes took place. First, in Flemish prisons and then in French-speaking prisons. Prison officers report problems that have been identified for many years: lack of staff and overcrowding in prisons. In principle, the country's 35 prisons could accommodate 9,500 prisoners, but there were currently 10,700 prisoners. Extra beds have been set up to compensate for the lack of equipment, but there are still too few staff to manage overpopulation. "These conditions create conditions for prison staff that are no longer acceptable," says Claudine Cousienne of the CSC. "There too, the situation has reached its limit for all officers, and for detainees also because they no longer have access to the activities they can have," says Grégory Wallet of the CGSP. The situation will worsen with the policy of execution of short sentences. You have recently postponed this execution, recognizing that it is impossible to carry out. As for the construction of new prisons, such as the one in Haren, the position of the land is clear, it will not allow to increase the capacity, given the closures. There are no 36 solutions: to tackle the problem of prisons, there is a need for strong revalorisation measures instead of precarious contracts, recruitment and investment, not pharaonic projects such as mega prisons or the execution of short sentences which are counterproductive and which cannot be allowed anyway. Minister, what steps are you going to take to respond to the legitimate demands of officers? Are recruitments planned? If so, how many and under what status? Are you going to raise the salaries of the agents? Do you maintain your will to enforce all short prison sentences? How are you going to deal with prison overcrowding? How do you intend to manage the overcrowding, knowing that the places won in Haren will be counterbalanced by those lost in the three Brussels prisons that will close and that the detention centres will have to absorb those sentenced to short sentences? What would be your solution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to wish you all the best for 2022. I wish you good health, a lot of goodness and a lot of wit. I would also like to toast a good cooperation with the committee. I also wish for a great deal of action this year, an important year for justice, with reforms that really need to get moving and be visible. Madam President, on 20 December we had a detailed and in-depth debate on this issue. I will try to avoid repetition, but it is not bad to give a new state of affairs now, a few weeks later. I shall begin with the questions raised by Mr Dillen and Mr De Wit on capacity and infrastructure. The problem of overpopulation is not new. The mere provision of additional capacity is not the key to solving this problem. During the last visit, the CPT pointed out the problems of ground sleepers and asked for an action plan to be drawn up to resolve these problems by February. I repeat my message of 20 December here in Parliament, namely that short-term solutions are not clear at all. Renting capacity abroad, as several people have suggested, is not a short-term solution, as one cannot do one-two-three. Moreover, this has a huge cost, at the time in the Netherlands it was EUR 40 million if I am not mistaken. We have therefore looked at other measures in the short term. We have come to a temporary distribution plan, pending the additional capacity. In developing this distribution plan, a number of principles were taken into account, such as the availability of a quota of monocells. Specific projects such as drug-free departments and care projects for interned people are not affected. For the sake of clarity, the capacity humanitarian measures are not included in the additional capacity of 2,440 additional places we provide in the coming years. A total of 284 beds are temporarily placed in arrest houses and prisons. It is difficult at present to predict how long we will have to keep these measures in place. However, I can assure you that these beds will not be used longer than necessary. A permanent follow-up and periodic evaluation are provided for, which should enable us to adjust. That is why we are very consciously choosing to keep mentioning this capacity separately. In this way we want to avoid that it would be counted as regular capacity. Then I would like to explain the additional capacity in the medium term. Net additional seats for this year are provided for 452 new places. Mr Boukili, the closure of the Brussels prisons and the opening of the Haren prison will lead to a net increase – not gross – of 106 places. For Dendermonde, the net is 276 additional places. This means that we have additional places there. To that we add another 70 extra places in the transition houses. That brings us to a total of 452 places in 2022. In 2023 the reopening of Ypres prison followed, with an additional capacity of 56 places. The prison of Antwerp will be replaced in 2025, which will put an end to the living conditions that have been mentioned several times in recent weeks. In 2026, by opening the prisons in Vresse and Leopoldsburg, we will provide 592 extra net places. The three FPCs in Aalst, Paifve and Waver will provide 620 extra seats net. In other words, in the long term this means a serious increase in the number of places and capacity. As I said at the beginning, the provision of capacity is not enough, and we must also make structural changes. The first is the implementation of the short sentences. That sounds paradoxical, because the implementation of the short sentences leads to even more places. That's obvious. However, the philosophy behind the execution of short sentences is that the effective execution of all short sentences will allow us to play briefly on the ball, reduce the known phenomenon of revolving door prisoners and thus have an impact on the relapse. In order to carry out the short sentences, we provide 720 places for new detention homes. It is important, however, that we want to give the prison system a definitive change of direction, by focusing on small-scale detention and a tailor-made approach. We want to carry out all the punishments, but at the same time we want to give the sentenced person a chance to return to society better after the execution of the sentence. Ladies and gentlemen, a second structural change is the introduction of the new Criminal Code, which will have an impact on the influx of detainees. We want to provide for the imposition of the most appropriate punishment. That's not always a prison sentence. That is a contradiction with the current Criminal Code. Finally, it is also important to work on a policy that ensures the outflow of detainees. To this end, meaningful detention with work towards reintegration from the start of the sentence is important. In this way, the recurrence and therefore the overpopulation will fall. Colleagues, that is a long-term policy and a real game changer in our criminal execution policy. I come now to Mrs Dillen and Mrs De Wit's questions on detention homes. We have had several exchanges of views on this subject too. The project in Kortrijk is progressing well. The recruitment procedure is ongoing and the opening has been completed. It shall become operational in June 2022. In Verviers, a compromise was signed for the purchase of the building. Consultation with local partners is ongoing. In the meantime, the search for other suitable buildings continues. Account should be taken of the cost of the building, the state of the building, the necessary renovation works, the date on which the building becomes available, the consultation with local partners and other elements. Mr Goffin, to answer your second question on EUR 8 million, the budget is intended to carry out the late maintenance work due to the past structural underfunding of the technical installations, on the one hand, and to modernise and/or renew the safety installations, on the other. To this end, a study office is called upon. No specific planning has been made. This budget also allows rapid response to urgent repairs and replacements. Work is always planned in consultation with the field. An exact schedule does not yet exist. The work is planned and carried out in the course of the year taking into account emergencies. The renovations are the responsibility of the Secretary of State in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments. As for your third question, these figures take into account the closure of the Dinant prison, the opening of the Vress prison, the closure of the Brussels prisons and the closure of the Antwerp prison. As far as Mrs De Wit's fourth question is concerned, we are currently considering the possibilities with the Directorate of Buildings. With regard to Mrs Dillen's second question concerning staff, it is indeed being prepared to amend the status of penitentiary staff. Title IV of the Law of 23 March 2019 includes the articles which relate specifically to the Staff Regulations. Those Articles shall lay down the basic principles governing the award of a post, leave and absence, allowances, staff evaluation, the right to wager and guaranteed remuneration, disciplinary regime, order and security measures, automatic dismissal and termination of the contract of employment and health care. These articles will be implemented gradually in the following years. Meanwhile, there are already projects on professionalisation and differentiation, deontology and integrity and the establishment of a penitentiary school. These are all initiatives that will improve the framework and support for employees. As I have explained several times in committee, we will introduce two new posts within the prison system in the first half of 2022. The function of penitentiary officer will be divided into two new functions, namely security assistant and detention counsellor. This should allow the security staff to specialise in a particular aspect of surveillance, either the security of buildings and persons, or the supervision of the detainees. Both functions are complementary and lead to improved safety within the facilities. Examples abroad have already shown that this concept works. Moreover, the construction of new prisons and the renovation of existing prisons not only improves the living environment of the prisoners but also improves the working conditions of the penitentiary staff. As regards Mrs Dillen's third question, the administration is currently carrying out a feasibility study on the temporary reinforcement of staff in response to staff shortages. As announced during the consultation, we are examining various slopes and not limiting ourselves to a temporary extension of the framework. The results will be communicated before the summer of 2022. I come to the questions of Mr Goffin and Mrs Rohonyi. With regard to the lack of staff, prisons are subject to continuous recruitment procedures. Needs are, of course, determined in consultation with the field. A pilot project on a shortened procedure is under way for the province of Antwerp, for the prisons of Antwerp and Beveren, and for the region of Campine, namely the prisons of Wortel, Turnhout and Merksplas. Currently, planning is being carried out and interviews are planned from 17 January to the end of February. For Brussels prisons, the final stage for French-speaking candidates is under way. Some 130 candidates are enrolled in these tests. The results are expected in the second half of February. Due to the anticipated influx to Brussels, this should allow for a large number of transfers from Brussels to Wallonia. My office and the central administration of the Directorate General of Penitentiaries (DG EPI) are following developments with the utmost attention. It is difficult to fill vacancies quickly because of the shortage of labour; employees are aware of this. A pilot project is under way to reduce the duration of the selection procedures and promotion campaigns have been launched to highlight the attractiveness of this profession. The Administration is conducting a feasibility study for the temporary strengthening of staff in response to overcrowding and staff shortages. The results will be communicated to the CSC by the summer of 2022. Mr Dillen, I come to your question about concrete initiatives. At present, every effort is being made to fill out existing vacancies. At present, we are faced with labour shortages at national level, which means that implementation is slower than usual. Initiatives were taken in cooperation with the Minister of Civil Service. The Council of Ministers of 23 September 2021 approved two drafts of KB. These were submitted to the trade unions on 5 January. As I said, a pilot project with accelerated selection based on one interview is currently under way in the region of Antwerp. There is also strong investment in a campaign to highlight a job in the prison system. For example, in the autumn of 2021 we launched a campaign for care and surveillance staff. Justice is a very interesting employer. We need to emphasise this more with potential candidates on the labour market. The first results are already promising. Mrs Rohonyi, with regard to your first question, I can tell you that staff are very concerned about the shortage of staff, especially since the rate of absenteeism has increased sharply as a result of the current pandemic. This phenomenon is felt heavily in all professional sectors, but it is particularly damaging in the prison field. The high rate of overpopulation also increases the pressure on employees. I understand them even more. I share their concerns, but a strike will obviously not solve this problem. Mrs Dillen, as far as your fifth question is concerned, since my appointment as Minister of Justice, I have invited all the trade unions to a bilateral discussion and personal knowledge of their concerns. With some of those sighs, I immediately got to work. This is how I dealt with the issue of uniforms and, together with the Minister responsible for the affairs of the Amateurs, I have simplified the selection procedures. I also made money available for a campaign to highlight the job of penitentiary staff and social consultation was more structured and professionalised. I was personally present in Antwerp at the beginning of December for a consultation with the trade unions. That consultation was constructive and we came together to find some solutions that we are currently implementing. This can also be seen from the figures in Antwerp. It is true that I myself do not always participate in all the consultations and negotiations. As long as the discussion is conducted in a constructive atmosphere, I would like to leave it to the administration and my cabinet. I will lead the negotiations on the new posts myself on 14 January. Mrs Rohonyi, with regard to your third question, the execution of sentences of three years or less must come into force on 1 June this year. As I have already mentioned, the only factor that could encourage postponement is linked to a new wave of infections, such as the one we are currently experiencing. The current non-execution of sentences contributes to overcrowding, as it affects the decisions of judges and the sense of impunity of convicted persons. It is therefore structurally important to remove this aggravating factor from prison overcrowding. Only by restoring confidence in the effectiveness of punishments will we improve things. This is obviously not the only improvement factor, but it is an important factor, for which I will follow the timetable. The problem of overpopulation is not new and more than one minister has already broken his head to solve it. This has become clear once again during the last trade union consultations. The unions felt that our proposal of 24 December "had certainly merit", but unfortunately, the strike could not be avoided. I quote literally what the trade unions have said: 'Regardless of the fact that the proposal certainly has merit, confidence in the government, which was seriously violated during the previous legislature, has not been sufficiently restored at this time'. So that goes in the right direction. With respect to the minimum service addressed in Ms. Rohonyi's fourth question, the assessment has been completed. It is correct that the standards set out in the prison model plans were often not met. We also note that the activities provided for by the law have not always been organized, or not everywhere. Consultations with trade unions following the evaluation are still under way. Then I have a question from colleague De Wit. On 29 November, I promised to reduce the population in Antwerp to 680 prisoners, where at that time there were 740. This has been successful since 30 December, but of course it remains a daily challenge to keep it that way. That 680 is a target we're trying to reach.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your very detailed answers to all the questions put. You know I appreciate that. I'm not saying you're not doing anything. Of course, you carry with you a historical burden from the past for which you are not responsible. I am not too bad to admit that, but as far as the capacity problem is concerned, I fear that the figures you have given in your reply are far too optimistic and that you are not starting from realistic scenarios. You have provided a short, medium and long-term solution. As regards the short-term solution, it was promised that the problem of ground sleep would be resolved by February 2022. You yourself admit that this will not be the case. There is a distribution plan and I would have liked some more information on this. You can include those figures in the report. It is true that 28 beds have been added, but the way in which this is done really leaves something to be desired, as I outlined in my speech. In the medium term, you provide, among other things, the transition homes as a solution to the capacity problem, but there too I fear you are too optimistic. We are only at the very beginning here, and I fear that the figures you give will not be achieved in the medium term. In the long term, you wish to make structural changes. You say that the execution of the short sentences will have an impact on the recidivism. I am not at all sure about this, because when we look at the figures relating to repeated crime, they are mainly about heavier forms of crime. What you call the revolving door policy is certainly not going to be solved by the short sentences. You say that 720 places are provided for in the detention homes, but you must also admit that we are only at the very beginning. You announced that everything in Kortrijk was going according to plan. I do not know when the opening of Kortrijk is planned, but it remains with Kortrijk at the moment. There are no other initiatives in this area. You also refer to the new Criminal Code, but there are still no such texts. We are in the process of reforming sexual criminal law in committee, but that is all we need to do. As far as the Criminal Code itself and the Code of Criminal Procedure are concerned, of course there are the texts from the past, but we still need to get your texts. With regard to the staffing framework, you say that you are in the process of adjusting the Staff Regulations. When can we expect a definitive solution? After all, the terrain is certainly asking party. Madam President, I would like to inform you that I have tabled a motion to conclude my speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u31	Yes, Mrs. Dillen. I'll read them to you later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u32	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answers. I hear that the strike is in no way a proper way to solve the structural problem of prison overcrowding, except that here, when prison officers strike, it is not a matter of cheerfulness. It's a sign of despair. It is a call for aid because the measures that are yours, but also the ongoing consultations, still do not provide a structural response to this equally structural problem. I thank you for your lucidity when you say that this capacity problem will not be solved in the short term by the construction of new prisons. This is true in the short term, but it is also true in the long term. It is a matter of arithmetic that has been observed for decades. The more new prisons are built, the more they fill up. In 1980, we had 5,000 inmates. Today, we count twice. I hear a willingness on your part to improve things and to respond to this problem, except that we can only see today that not only this capacity has come to saturation, but also that this poses real problems with conditions of indignity, including the obligation to make prisoners sleep on mattresses on the floor, due to lack of beds. In fact, last December, you announced a reflection on the possibility of installing real beds in prisons where the maximum capacity was reached. I always wonder if this thought has been successful. What is changing, however, is the increase in the pressure on these overcrowded, outdated prisons that cannot be replaced, in any case that could only be replaced in several months or even years. You mentioned at the end of 2022 or 2026 for Bourg-Léopold prison. At the same time, as we know, these short sentences will be executed but will also be extended. You mentioned a reflection on alternative penalties in the context of the reform of the Criminal Code. However, with regard to the sex criminal code component we are currently examining, we are moving towards an extension of the same penalties. If I may, I therefore invite you, Minister, to a long-term paradigm shift, first of all, with an increased use of exit permits, prison leave, electronic bracelet. It can be seen that this had worked during the crisis and had a drastic effect on the decline in the prison population. Why not draw lessons from it today and also in the short term, by executing all the points that could be contained in different protocols concluded with the unions. For the renovation work, I mean we're going to do the urgent work. But by force, the work that was urgent at first became structural. I invite you to visit the prisons of Forest and Saint-Gilles to see it. I conclude, Madam Chair, but as the minister's response has been lengthy, I will be a little longer as well. With regard to short sentences, of course, they must be carried out. My message was never to say that it should not be done. My message was that these short sentences must be carried out in humane and dignified conditions, and therefore not in overcrowded prisons like today. As far as recruitment is concerned, I mean that it must be carried out, and that the procedure is under way, but I really insist that these recruitments must be done as a matter of priority in order to relieve the staff of existing prisons and not for future prisons. It can wait. You're talking about a pilot project for accelerated recruitment for Antwerp prison. We're talking a lot about the judicial district of Antwerp. Other prisons are also waiting, and I end with that. With regard to the minimum service, I mean that the activities provided for by the law are not always effective. That's right. I therefore allow myself to relay the call of the actors on the ground who are waiting for a real evaluation of this law, and possibly correct it by means of a legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u33	Minister, thank you for your answers. You said it was your first answers of the year. I note that they are as precise as last year's. Thank you. They are very detailed and documented, which is essential. I said so in connection with my question and I also said so in our exchanges in November and December. The budgets are there, which gives us an opportunity to put a real impact on the situation in the prisons. I have been a Member of Parliament since 2010. As others have said, it is a legacy of the past. It's a story that's starting to repeat itself too much. From the moment these budgets are there, and when, as with your predecessor, the will to move the lines is present, let's go! This is not happening right away, and I realize it. It's an important machine, heavy to move. Perhaps we could give ourselves an appointment as we sometimes do, in a year's time, with the various actors we have talked about here, i.e. the prison directors, the unions, but also the different actors on the ground in prisons, to see where we are very concretely. I hear situations that are specific to Brussels, others in Flanders and Wallonia. Whatever! Whatever the regions, we find the same problems. Perhaps it would be interesting if at the end of this year, and this is a resolution for 2022, we took the time to really take stock of what happened in 2022, in the light of the positive expressions that you have put forward. I would like to take this opportunity to present to you, my colleagues and to the President, my best wishes for this year 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u34	Minister, I am of course pleased to hear that there is a commitment to meaningful detention and soon to the execution of the short sentences. But you will always need capacity. You are now saying that it is not possible to rent capacity abroad in the short term. But the situation is not new: you could have started a year ago, that capacity might have been there today and there would not have been so much pressure on that boiler. You spoke of a temporary distribution plan. I'm guessing you mean a spread across the different prisons. I think that is only logical if we know that 20% of the total overpopulation was taken up in the Antwerp Begijnenstraat. You say that we have reduced the overpopulation there from 740 to 680 inmates, but with a capacity of over 430 that remains far too much. I look forward to further developing your master plan and the new prisons. I am pleased to hear that you wish to consider where it may be possible, because that must of course be done in a humane way to keep the old prisons open. I am also curious about the impact of the new Criminal Code. You say that you will remove a number of prison sentences, but for many of those facts perhaps you should do a survey. People did not end up in prison. So I wonder if this will have the expected impact. What I haven't heard is that I'm ahead of a question I'm about to ask. There is still a lot of potential that you can tap into to free capacity here, following the example of Theo Francken and Koen Gees in the previous government, which allowed 1,400 to 1,600 people to serve their sentence abroad every year. That is a slope that you must certainly take with you as a solution for the current overpopulation, but we will have that debate later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u35	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Marijke Dillen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Marijke Dillen and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice and the North Sea, - whereas prison strikes are the result of a problem which has been known for many years, in particular overpopulation in prisons; - whereas despite the announced plans and the construction of two new prisons, and taking into account the announced closure of three other prisons, the net capacity in prisons will not increase, at least not enough to solve the overpopulation problem in prisons; - whereas, in this way, there can be no temporary problem, but we are faced with a huge structural problem, where even all the measures announced (outside the projects in progress) by the Minister of Justice will not be sufficient to remedy the problem; - whereas the situation was already untenable for the penitentiary officials, and the situation today, let alone for the future, seems even less rosy as far as possible; - whereas the above mentioned a western country and democratic rule of law is not worthy; - whereas, in order to respond to the problems faced by staff members, at least work should be done to fill the existing staff framework on the one hand and additional recruitment on the other hand, in conjunction with the creation of a new statute on the other; asks the government - to draw up, in the very short term, a sensible, functioning and realistic plan which will at least address the overpopulation in Belgian prisons; - to take immediately the necessary measures to make up for delays in the recruitment of guards and to put an (attractive) statute in place for the guards.' A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms Marijke Dillen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu l.o.interpellation de Mme Marijke Dillen and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and the North Sea, - Considering that prison strikes are the result of a problem that has been known for many years, in particular prison overcrowding; Whereas, despite the plans announced and the construction of two new prisons and the announced closure of three other prisons, the net prison capacity will not increase and will not at least be sufficient to solve the problem of overcrowding; - Whereas, therefore, it cannot be a temporary obstacle but we are facing a huge structural problem, that even all the measures announced (regardless of the projects being implemented) by the Minister of Justice will not be enough to resolve; - Whereas the situation was already untenable for prison officers in the past and is even less favourable to the present and a fortiori in the future, as far as possible; - Whereas the above is unworthy of a Western country and a democratic State governed by the rule of law; Whereas, in order to solve the problem faced by staff, it is necessary, at the very least, to supplement the existing staff framework and, on the other hand, to carry out additional recruitments while drawing up a new Staff Regulations; asks the government - to draw up in the very short term a plan that is well thought out, operational and realistic, allowing at least to remedy overcrowding in Belgian prisons; - to take immediate steps to eliminate the backlog in the recruitment of prison guards and to draw up ipso facto a statute (attractive) for prison officers." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u36	In Zolder, the installation of a route control system does not comply with the law. In the middle of the route is a variable zone 30. This is not in line with the legal conditions for a homogeneous speed regime to apply within the route. This does not mean that fines already issued and paid will be refunded. After all, recovery is no longer possible once criminal proceedings have been closed. In the current proceedings, the prosecution may voluntarily waive an amicable settlement or, if the case is already pending before a court, request that no judgment be delivered. Minister, how should the conditions of a homogeneous speed regime be understood? Do traffic barriers or other obstacles which have a speed limit of 30 km/h also cause the speed regime to cease to be homogeneous in an area 50? Can you clarify in what cases the road infrastructure or zoning can stand in the way of a homogeneous speed regime? What other infrastructure interventions or traffic signs may not be present to legally install a route check on a particular route? Legally, the recovery of fines paid is not possible. Does that also apply to the immediate collections that have been paid before the file ends up at the parquet? Road safety does not serve to put road users on the wrong track. Trajectory checks should be set up correctly. Do you follow the reasoning that in that case the prosecution can waive an amicable settlement or ask not to pronounce a conviction? Do you intend to distribute a letter on this matter? Finally, do you intend to amend the law and thus provide for a system whereby citizens can clearly recover undue but paid immediate collections, friendly settlements and fines?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u37	Prior to that, I would like to point out that my reply relates only to ordinary speeding offences and not to offences that are not sanctioned by criminal law, as referred to in Article 29c of the Road Code, for which the Public Prosecutor is no longer competent. As regards your first question, in its opinion of 17 December 2021, the College of the Public Prosecutor shares the view that a homogeneous speed regime should apply to a complete journey. The Committee considers that it is not appropriate to carry out a route check on a route with different maximum permitted speeds. In such cases, the standard varies according to the driver's location on the route, making it impossible to determine exactly the speeding offence and thus the penalty to be applied. As you indicate, the presence of elevated devices may have been announced by the traffic signs A14 and F87, because according to Article 22ter of the traffic regulations, drivers must approach those devices with double caution and moderate speed, so that they drive over them at a speed not exceeding 30 km/h. When a route check is carried out within an area 50 with an elevated device, two maximum speeds are allowed on the same route and the driver's speed cannot be correctly calculated. I would like to point out that, according to the scientific literature, increased traffic thresholds lead to a lower speed when driving over. Their effectiveness has been proven. It would therefore be a pity if such facilities were to be removed for the sole purpose of installing a flash pole. Secondly, I cannot agree with the claim that it is not legally possible to recover paid fines if one understands immediate collections, friendly settlements and payment orders. I assume that's what you mean by immediate collections. In these three cases, the criminal proceedings do indeed lapse after payment, but that does not mean that reimbursement is impossible. Unfortunately, it has already happened that an immediate collection is proposed for a speeding offence and the police realise too late that the licensed driver has not committed an offence. This may be the case, for example, when a mobile flash pole is installed in zone 50, but the speed limit coded at the time of the determination is 30 km/h. In that case, the police will inform the prosecution that the case will reopen and dismiss it. The public prosecutor informs the FPS Finance that the amount paid must be refunded. The possibility of reimbursement in the absence of a criminal offence exists both for the immediate recovery and for the amicable settlement and payment order. I agree with your point in your third question. The prosecution will dismiss the case if it appears that the determination by route control or by any other flash pole is incorrect. The public prosecutor may also apply for an acquittal at the hearing if the case has been brought before the court. With regard to the possibility of a circular letter, I should like to remind you that the installation of automatic speed cameras, as in the case of route checks, is already regulated and the prior consultation between the police, the judicial authorities and the administrations in Article 62 (7) of the Road Traffic Act and the Royal Decree of 11 October 1997. That consultation is mandatory. The King's Attorneys will ensure that the speeds are homogeneous over the entire length of the routes for which applications have been submitted for the installation of the flashlights. For reasons of legal certainty, it might be desirable for the federal legislator and the regions to impose the uniformity rule for speed throughout the length of the routes, since it is a shared competence. I will discuss this with my colleague responsible for mobility. As far as your last question is concerned, given my clarifications, I do not think it is necessary to amend the law, since refunds are possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u38	Thank you for your comprehensive answer. It's a very technical answer. You refer to different road signs and elements from the road code. I'll check that detailed information in peace and quiet. I understand from you, however, that the refund is effective, which has been misrepresented in the media. I'm glad to hear that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u39	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you an excellent year. I also wish the various services that make our work possible. Mr Minister, in the Committee on the Interior, we have had both exciting and worrying hearings on the question of unaccompanied minors. Many aspects of the MENA theme are more relevant to your colleague Mr Mahdi, but there are several aspects that fall within your purview, namely the question of guardians – on which we can work in the coming months, I hope – and the question of bone tests. In early 2021, I asked you about these bone tests, used to determine the age of MENA. As I explained at the time, many organisations working for human rights, as well as bodies such as the European Parliament, the High Council for Public Health in France or doctors in Switzerland very recently, criticize these tests. Indeed, they are based on an atlas dating back to 1959 and do not correspond to the physical reality of a migrant person. In fact, this atlas is based on people from the upper middle class, in the United States, at the time. You replied that you were always open to possible improvements and announced that a study group would be set up to draft a new protocol for the completion of age tests. You said that the universities of Ghent and Leuven had been given the task of setting up an advisory committee, whose members were already known at the time. Minister, what progress has been made in setting up this study group? Has the Advisory Committee had the opportunity to meet to begin this work? What are the next steps for this study group? Have there been any further advances in calling into question or improving these bone tests? Have these progresses been communicated to your colleague, Mr Sammy Mahdi?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a first meeting was held on 15 October 2021. The Advisory Board is chaired by experts from KUL and UGent and has the task of improving the current medical expertise in age determination and ensuring that all hospitals carry out these examinations in the same way. They will make recommendations. All hospitals conducting age tests are represented. At the first meeting, a summary of the working methods of these hospitals was made and the optimization and harmonization of the examinations were discussed. The next meeting is scheduled for the end of February. The agenda includes the following six points: factors that have an influence (ethnicity and others, e.g. differences between teeth and skeleton); frequently heard criticisms of examinations such as radiation exposure and the use of medical examinations; criteria for baseline studies (scientific basis for partial results, scientific basis for the combination of partial results); attention to explaining the examinations in the final report; the quality control system and practical implementation. After this second meeting, a work notice will be distilled by Professor Patrick Thevissen and Dr Jannick De Tobel. They will present the opinion to the Commissioner for the Rights of the Child of that country and to the NGOs that are in contact with age research and will ask for their input in order to give the opinion, in addition to a medico-scientific consensus, broad social support. The final opinion will then be made public. For the time being, the Board has discussed the working methods of each hospital conducting medical examinations, as well as the optimization and harmonization of these examinations. The final opinion will be prepared by the Board. Mr Moutquin, with regard to your third question, I have already had the opportunity to address this issue by answering questions from Mr Rigot and Mrs Rohonyi on 20 December in the Committee on Justice. The Act states that the Tutelle Service is required to carry out a medical test when the authorities competent for asylum, access to territory, residence and removal cast doubt on the minority of a person claiming to be MENA. This method is therefore an integral part of the process of age determination conducted by the Tutelle Service. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to yesterday's hearing in the Committee on the Interior on MENA. The Tutelle Department explained in detail how to determine age by means of medical examinations. I will also refer to page 108 of EASO's Practical Guide on Age Assessment, in which one can see a good overview of the medical examinations that many Member States use to determine age. In addition, I have recently learned through the British Embassy that the United Kingdom is also planning to use medical examinations to determine age in the future. We continue to follow this issue and will be transparent with regard to the advice provided by the Advisory Board. I would add that the Secretary of State, Mr Mahdi, is informed of the work of the Advisory Board. Mrs Rohonyi, the procedure for identifying two of the five young people has been completed: one of them has been identified as a minor and will be appointed a guardian and the other has been identified as a major. We have therefore put an end to the assumption of the Tutelle service. The procedure is still under way for three young people. The medical tests have been carried out, but the medical reports have not yet been transmitted to us by the hospital. The Advisory Board's mission is to improve the current assessment of the medical age and to ensure that all hospitals perform these examinations in the same manner. It is not intended to investigate alternatives to medical examinations, but it remains open to any study or scientific approach to evaluate a chronological age. To our knowledge, non-medical methods focus on the person's maturity and not on a chronological age. The organisation of medical tests falls solely within the competence of the Minister of Justice, since it is up to the Tutelle Service to identify unaccompanied foreign minors. The Inter-Ministerial Conference on Migration and Integration took up the issue of MENA as a priority topic. This consultation platform focuses primarily on MENA's hospitality and welfare responsibilities. Both the federal authorities and the federated entities have a responsibility in this area. However, if the request is made by the members of the Interdepartmental Conference, the Tutelle Service can certainly be asked to explain its competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u41	Minister, thank you. You are, indeed, always very complete. Important information should be monitored and noted. I welcome the progress made by the working group that has been set up. I also welcome the concern for uniformity and uniformity of practice. Indeed, I have met many MENA or young adults, to whom a very different age has been attributed. This in fact sometimes also depends on the practice of the hospital. That is where we see this issue as important. You spoke of the hearings on the MENA that took place yesterday in the Committee on the Interior. Honestly, we are no longer at all in a matter of political colour. You're right. The subject of bone tests has created a deep malaise among many Commissioners and even a questioning. In my view, the issue of the doubt you are talking about is a subjective question, which we will have to analyse in the Committee on the Interior. You also mentioned the United Kingdom. This country had a physiological test, which of course was not acceptable. Now he's considering a bone test, which is better. I come to the multidisciplinary approach. Will the working group look at this multidisciplinary approach, including the presence of psychologists who can also question age? Finally, another element on which we must work is the margin of error. You're quoting the United Kingdom. I can quote from the countries of the European Union which do not have a margin of error of two years, as in our own country, but a margin of error of five years. This really changes the approach to these minors/young adults, and all the rights they can claim in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u42	Minister, thank you for your very complete and precise answers again, which demonstrate your interest in this fundamental question. Determining the age of MENA is essential to ensure that they are properly cared for, by means of a method that is precise but at the same time avoids unnecessary trauma. It is an issue that is so crucial that, in our view, it requires the attention of all the competent ministers. For this reason, I am pleased to hear that the Interdepartmental Conference is working on this. However, you have not specified the ministers who are part of it. For example, I ask myself the question of the presence of the various ministers of health. I think it is essential that they be able to participate in this work. As far as the Scientific Committee is concerned, I am pleased to see that there is a specific agenda, that work is going on. On the other hand, I have questions about the composition of this committee. I hear a series of specialists are part of it. But we must also ensure that, within the framework of this committee and its work, consultation is organised with the Delegate-General for the Rights of the Child and his Dutch-speaking counterpart (Kinderrechtencommissaris), both upstream and downstream, as you seem to say, that it is only when the opinion has been delivered by the committee that it will be presented to these different bodies. In my opinion, it's too late, given their expertise. I am also thinking of the Minors in Exile platform or the Coordination of NGOs for the Rights of the Child working on the issue of the rights of the child, all the more so since the said Coordination has made very interesting recommendations to use alternatives to bone tests. These organisations have more than useful expertise in the work of the Scientific Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u43	Minister, as of December 10, 2021, our prison system had nearly 10,875 inmates, 1 254 more than its maximum theoretical capacity. In a study published on 18 December by the National Institute of Criminalism and Criminalology (INCC), the organization notes that in 2019, 37.8% of the prison population was made up of prisoners, almost four in ten. This proportion, even if it fluctuates, was known to us for a long time, which does not detract from its calling nature in the light of pre-trial detention, which must be exceptional. But it is above all the reasons why the investigating judges award arrest warrants, and thus inflate this proportion, which are fundamentally in question. The study tells us that people under the age of 35 are at risk of being sent to pre-trial detention twice as many as others; that people born outside the EU see their likelihood of being detained greatly increased, regardless of whether or not they have a residence in Belgium; that the risk of detention would also be greater when faced with an investigating judge in Liège or Antwerp, rather than in Brussels, as regards the three districts that have been studied. Finally, the presence of drug use, psychopathology or social problems would result in more than doubling the risk of being held preventively, even when these elements are unrelated to the facts justifying their arrest. Minister, what conclusions do you draw from this NCIC study? How do you explain that those under 35, but also those who were not born in Belgium, are at greater risk of pre-trial detention than others and that the risk of detention is lower in Brussels than in Liège or Antwerp? Do you think that drug use, psychopathology or social problems can further justify the use of pre-trial detention? What measures do you intend to take to reduce the number of pre-trial detainees who, let us recall, are presumed innocent, by limiting them to the objective pursued by the Pre-trial Detention Act, namely to avoid the escape of the suspect, the erasure of evidence and recidivism? Finally, are you considering re-establishing the monthly monitoring of pre-trial detention decisions or providing more training to magistrates in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u44	Dear colleague, as my speeches and replies on overcrowding show, I am fully aware that more than a third of the detainees in our prisons are kept in detention under the 1990 Act. While some current factors such as investigations, in the Sky ECC case, play a particular role in these figures - I am talking about more than 240 preventive detainees, at the request of the Federal Prosecutor's Office and the Antwerp Public Prosecutor's Office, not to mention other prosecutors' offices, which is nothing - the fact remains that the phenomenon is more prevalent in our country than in most other European countries. This is also an element highlighted in the first page of the study you are quoting. In 2016, with 30 detainees awaiting final trial per 100,000 inhabitants, Belgium was above the European median of 27.1 persons. This is not a recent phenomenon, and it is one of the main reasons for the many amendments made to the Act. However, and it is still remarkable that the amendments made to this Act, such as making electronic surveillance possible in the event of pre-trial detention, have never led to a fundamental decrease in the number of detainees in pre-trial detention. There is a widening effect of the net, a net-widening as it is said in English: the more possibilities there are, the more judges will be able to use it. As you know, I did not wait for this report to make significant changes in our prison system and in the enforcement of sentences. I am thinking in particular of prison attendants and detention plans and I am referring to the new draft Criminal Code, in which the penalty of imprisonment is an ultimate measure. In the context of faster and more humane justice, I have chosen to implement, first and foremost, initiatives aimed at reducing the length of detention through initiatives allowing rapid reactions, such as the M approach, to the Limburg Prosecutor's Office, which we are going to extend to other prosecutors. I am also thinking of the establishment of the adjustment chambers. These shorter delays will have an impact on the prison population, as the number of detainees entering detention is one factor, but the duration of such detentions is another. However, this average duration tends to increase in recent years. For example, 10,933 defendants were detained in 2017. They were only 9,793 in 2020, but the average length of detention in 2020 was 4.6 months, compared to 4.1 months in 2017. This represents a total increase of almost 223 months, despite a reduction of more than 10% in the number of nuts. Acting on the length of the proceedings will therefore have a positive effect on the prison population. This is, moreover, one of the ten points in my action plan to combat prison overcrowding. However, I remain attentive to any possibility of improving the efficiency of justice. As soon as I became aware of the study you're quoting, I contacted the authors. My chief of staff will meet with them tomorrow to discuss possible follow-up to their research.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answers. You are well aware of the problem at stake in our prisons, which is much older than the case in question. I hear that the legislator has taken the lead for several years, through amendments to the law on pre-trial detention. Unfortunately, as you say, they have not had the effect of reducing the proportion, but rather of extending the penal net. Therefore, further action must be taken. You intend to reduce the length of pre-trial detention. However, it is especially important that the spirit of the law be respected, regardless of the length of time that is decided. We note that this measure has become the easy or default solution. In other words, if I consider that the majority of investigating judges issue arrest warrants because they have the firm belief that some defendants are so dangerous that they must be incarcerated, others are so overloaded that they do not have time for proper analysis and do not want to take any risk to public safety, especially that of the victims. In addition to the measures you have announced and which are welcome, it is appropriate to restore the monthly control of these preventive detentions - and I have not heard you on this subject - as the previous legislatures provided for, but which was abolished by one of the "Pot Pourri" laws of your predecessor Mr. Geens. It is also important to support investigating judges to protect them from possible pressure from the police, the media and public opinion. These pressures would aim to say that they have an interest in incarcerated these people because they are considered dangerous when they are presumed innocent. There is a real need to ensure that investigating judges can work calmly on these issues. I am also concerned about the disparity between the boroughs. That is why I would like to ask you about the timeliness of sending them a circular to ensure that there is real consistency with the application of this law on pre-trial detention and, in doing so, to ensure that there is equal treatment among litigants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u46	Question No 55023619C by Mr Dallemagne is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u47	Minister, on July 7, I had already asked you about the important issue of the extraction of detainees for medical reasons, on the basis of the fact that the extraction procedures were still too poorly documented. The statistical data on the number of medical extractions do not appear in the various reports of the prison administration. The only data that I was able to find is from a question to the Minister of Justice in 2012, which focused on the hospitalisation figures for 2009! At the time, there were almost 1,018 hospitalizations for an average length of stay at the hospital of 2.58 days. It also appears, when the reports of the various supervisory commissions are examined, that the issue of extractions is very little documented or raised. Where this is the case, only the problem of the cancellation of escorts is generally invoked. In addition to this problem, the latest report of the Central Prison Supervision Board (CCSP) for 2020 refers to the sometimes over-emphasis on security, to the detriment of care. For this reason, two recommendations have been addressed to you by the Council: on the one hand, to provide for adequate human resources and, on the other, to ensure a greater balance between security and care, while respecting the privacy of detainees during such transport. Minister, do you have any specific statistical data on the number of medical extractions over the last ten years, since we still lack these figures today? Are these data available to the public? If not, do you plan to report to the public at regular intervals? If so, in what form? Do you intend to follow up on the recommendations of the latest CPSC report on complaints related to medical extractions of detainees? If so, how? Finally, you are aware that in 2019, the Directorate General of Prisons has concluded a protocol with the Central Directorate of Security (DAB) of the Federal Police concerning the organization of the intervention of police officers in the context of these medical extractions. Two years after its implementation, what is your assessment of this collaboration? Is it possible to improve the organisation of these medical extractions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u48	Mrs Rohonyi, as you say in your question, since 2019, this matter has been entrusted to the Central Directorate of Security (DAB), which is under the control of the Federal Police. This service records medical extractions specifically, which allows me to provide you with the figures for the year 2020, the first full year in which the DAB took charge of the matter. Unfortunately, I cannot give the figures for the previous ten years. In practice, in 2020, 5,677 medical extractions were carried out by the DAB, which represents an average of almost 16 extractions per day. Figures broken down by province will be provided to you in writing. I would add that this data relates only to scheduled extractions. Urgent extractions by ambulance are not included in the DAB data. With such a number of missions carried out daily, it may happen that an extraction cannot be carried out at the time originally planned, in particular because the hours of consultation at the hospital do not always correspond to the availability and daily planning of the DAB. However, I must point out that, in general, the collaboration between DG PPE and DAB is good and constructive at both central and individual prison levels. Each prison maintains regular contacts with local DAB officials and the police as part of operational operations. This makes it possible to conclude good cooperation agreements so that the extraction of prisoners can always be carried out under the best possible conditions. The ambition of the DAB is certainly to be able to ensure all medical extractions and every effort is made to do so. In concrete terms, regular meetings are held to optimize practice. For example, the DAB has recently taken further steps to further improve its functioning in this area. In the event of a conflict between the planning of medical extraction and the availability of the DAB, the principle of solidarity between the different entities of the DAB is invoked. This means that calendar conflicts do not automatically result in the cancellation of an appointment at the hospital, but it is checked first whether a nearby DAB unit or the federal police can perform the extraction. When no solution can be found, another time for consultation in the hospital is proposed, only if the inmate's health conditions permit. You can thus see that, in the face of this complex but important issue, every effort is made to ensure that the extractions requested are carried out and that medical appointments outside the establishments can be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u49	Minister, thank you for this answer and for the figures for 2020, which are finally available. I regret, however, that the figures are not available for the previous ten years, since it is precisely these that would have enabled us to make a comparison. They would have allowed us to assess whether there was an increase in these extractions and if, therefore, the impossibility of carrying out certain extractions which you mentioned are recurrent. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these extractions are extremely important, particularly with regard to the law of principles that we must carry out. This requires, inter alia, the principle of standardization, i.e. ensuring that detainees are able to benefit from continuity of their health care, as are those who are not in prison. However, it is up to me from the ground that certain problems persist. For example, transfers to medical and surgical centres in prisons, sometimes very far away, be it Bruges, Saint-Gilles or Lantin, are not always made: the detainees give up this because they rightly believe that it would be too confusing for their organisation, visits by their relatives and lawyers, etc. Other issues also persist, including the initial and continuing training of prison staff, possible measures to be taken upon the return of prisoners to prison, medical follow-up after consultation outside the prison, and medical care. These are issues that deserve the greatest transparency. There is also the question of support for associations such as Side Care, which provide full support to prisoners during their medical consultations outside prisons. Allow me to invite you, minister, to meet them. Their work is extremely important for the continuity of the health care of prisoners in our various prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u50	Mr Minister, the Dubai Papers refer to a flight of 200,000 documents relating to an offshore laundering system in the United Arab Emirates, organized through the Helin group, led by Belgian prince Henri de Croÿ. They were revealed in the French and Belgian presses from September 2018. In France, a first conviction took place in September 2021 on the basis of these Dubai Papers. But we can ask ourselves what is the status of the judicial instructions in Belgium. As regards 61 identified Belgian clients, they had been distributed in June 2020 to various prosecutors in the country, centralized in Brussels with supervision from the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and the appointment of an investigating judge at the beginning of 2021, if my information is correct. It appeared from an interview with the federal prosecutor Frédéric Van Leeuw in Lecho that "from 6 to 17 December the Dubai Papers case, led by the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, is fixed in Brussels", but it does not seem to be the case in the end. That information would be wrong. Minister, what is the status of these judicial instructions? Are there any brakes on their advance? He whispers that this would be the case, for example, in the Walloon Brabant. If the file was not fixed in Brussels in December 2021, when will it be fixed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u51	Dear colleague, the Public Prosecutor's Office informs me that there are still ongoing investigations. Given the secrecy of the investigation, I cannot comment on the instructions in progress. The individual files were distributed among the various judicial districts, including the Brabant Wallon district. It is up to local prosecutors to assess the follow-up to be given to these cases, in consultation with the competent public prosecutor. The prosecutor's office didn't give me any obstacles. In response to your third question, since the investigation is not closed, it is not possible for me at this stage to communicate to you when the file is fixed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u52	Minister, thank you for your answers, although they obviously do not provide many concrete answers. In any case, I hear that the investigations are under way, that you didn't have any mention of a barrier, which is different from the echoes I've had. In any case, I hope that the justice system is dealing properly with this big tax leak. This is a very important issue, with frauds still quite obvious. It was an organized system and the organiser of this fraud was not in the process of being tried out. I hope that the justice system takes this matter seriously enough. I will not fail to come back to you for explanations if the file continues to drag, as seems to be the case. The newspaper L'Echo had announced a trial in December 2021 but it seems that the process is much longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u53	I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u54	Mrs Bury, I do not have to hide from you that I am very grateful to the prosecutor and the court of Limburg for their approach to intra-family violence. The Limburg parquet serves as an example for many other parquets. I believe that I have said nothing too much. You know I'm a supporter of the Family Justice Centers. They have already proved their added value. This form of chain approach enables different organisations from different domains, ranging from welfare services to security services, to work together in a structured way. Each Flemish province has one or more forms of chain approach. There can also be reference to "safe at home" as an overarching term. The chain approach can take the form of a Family Justice Center. For example, the four Flemish Family Justice Centers have the chain approach as the largest common denominator. In addition, each of them has an effect appropriate to the regional context and possibilities. The chain approach may also take a different form. In the French-speaking part of the country, there are also several initiatives and projects on forms of cooperation in the field of intra-family violence. Regardless of the form, the core of the concept is always to offer victims a better service, with the aim of stopping violence, preventing further escalation and ensuring that both the perpetrators and the victims receive the help they need. I can only encourage further development of this model. Multidisciplinary cooperation on familial violence is the option for the future and the key to success. The federal level has provided the legal basis on which the chain approach can be extended. The federal level works with the law of 6 July 20017, article 458ter, which was inserted into the Criminal Code. This Article provides a justification for breach of professional secrecy in a case-by-case consultation on intra-family violence. To this end, the College of Attorneys General issued guidelines to the public prosecutors in the form of circular 04/2018. For example, the public prosecutors can participate in a case-by-case consultation with the various partners without violating their professional secrecy. The Crimes against Persons expertise network installed a working group that further follows developments based on Article 458ter and the aforementioned circular. The various actors come together in this forum. The further roll-out of the chain approach to intra-family violence, and hence the Family Justice Centers, falls within the competence of the Länder. At Flemish level, there is the Intrafamilial Violence Guidance Committee, which conducts large-scale research into the creation of intersectoral multidisciplinary centres of intrafamilial violence. This is done under the impetus of the competent Flemish minister. All those involved, including the Justice Department, are associated with this. The cooperation is going well. As has been said, there are also several initiatives in French-speaking Belgium. As far as your third and fourth questions are concerned, in recent decades, the mindset has changed at all levels on tackling the problem of intra-family violence, including in the Public Prosecutor's Office. The public prosecutor's role in these matters is much wider than merely to ensure the detection and prosecution of crimes. The approach to intra-family violence requires tailor-made work, an integrated and multidisciplinary approach and the use of alternative methods of handling. Cases of intra-family violence seek to eliminate the cause of violence through an approach aimed at victims and offenders. At the beginning of this century, there was also a tendency to adopt this approach in close cooperation with the multitude of actors from the police, justice and assistance within the same field of activity. In each parquet there is therefore a reference magistraat, specialising in intra-family violence, which acts as an internal and external point of contact and expands the policy on intra-family violence. The competent reference magistraat of the parquet of Limburg explained the Limburg approach again in an interview in a newspaper in December, which you undoubtedly read. The reference magistrate shall maintain good contact with the reference officers of the police areas for which he or she is competent by means of periodic consultations. Given the coherence of intra-family violence with distressing educational situations of certain children, the multidisciplinary approach is also reflected in the separate sections of Youth and Family that most of the parquets already have. This approach is, of course, inherently a matter for the prosecution. Nevertheless, the Justice Department supports this approach and has strengthened it. For example, I have set aside budgets for 15 additional parachute criminals, one of whom will be specifically deployed in each parquet for intra-family violence. The recruitments for this are ongoing. In addition, we have also freed up budgets for 21 parquet lawyers and 21 parquet criminalists for the lick-on-piece work in general, whose files often also have a link with a family problem, so that often a multidisciplinary approach has been identified.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u55	Minister, you say that you are very much in favour of the intensification, but that is of course something that the Länder should look at. As far as the budgetary impact is concerned, it is more than the Family Justice Centers, it is also about the staff of the parquets for these centres, precisely because everything is centralised in one place. There too, you have given figures about criminalists you want to use extra, but they have not yet been recruited because the procedure is in progress, so we have to follow that. With regard to the other additional staff in connection with the lick-on-piece policy, you said that you have allocated a budget for this, but there are no concrete figures on this either. I can only welcome the fact that you are continuing to do so. We will continue to ask questions about this to keep the finger on the wrist and to see if everyone can be helped well.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u56	Madam President, Mrs Bury, there were indeed again disturbances on the New Year's Eve. That was not only in Brussels, but also in Antwerp and even, remarkably, also in smaller cities. I thought there were even incidents in the Kempen. Police and prosecutors were, of course, prepared for this in Brussels. Being prepared for it does not, of course, mean that all possible disturbances and riots can be prevented and prevented. There were 147 administrative arrests that night. A total of 11 vehicles were set on fire. The police were bombarded with firefighters. There were also 6 court arrests linked to incidents related to New Year's Eve. There are investigations currently under way to identify and prosecute suspects. Police and prosecutors act consistently, whether they are riots during New Year's Eve or riots during or after a demonstration against the corona measures. The police don't use two sizes and two weights there. The police act consistently and the public prosecutor continues at the same time as people are identified. Then I'll get to the approach. The judicial approach to heavy force against police was reinforced, you know that. This was to the satisfaction of the police in Brussels. We are also going to invest extra in fast-track law. I'll give you a few figures. At the level of the parquet 70 people are added, which is an investment of 3.3 million euros, including for rapid justice, for rapid justice in all districts. I would also like to point out that, as far as fast-track law is concerned, Brussels is leading the way, about a third of the fast-track cases are being dealt with in Brussels. The fast-track legal capacity in Brussels has also been further developed. Since 1 February 2021, there have been 10 plenary sessions per week in Brussels for cases dealt with by rapid legal procedure compared to six plenary sessions in 2020. We also invest at the level of the seat. There's gonna be courtrooms, among other things. We invest there in 96 additional persons, magistrates and support staff. This is an investment of 5.4 million euros for the year 2022. We invest, as you can see, in parquet and seat for dealing with those kinds of rioters.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u57	In the meantime, Minister, I could have heard the number of administrative arrests in the press. Six judicial arrests are very poor, with all the cases that have happened there. You say that it was not only in Brussels, it is already expanding to other cities. Brussels is the great example. If it rains in Brussels, other cities will also follow, to paraphrase the statement on Paris. We must put an effective stop to this. Additional investment in fast-track law is a very good thing, with those 70 staff and 3.3 million euros, with those ten sessions per week. Those are all very good grades. Brussels is a frontrunner, you say. With regard to the New Year facts, perhaps I should ask the question more specifically. How much quick justice was done there? How many people were quick to get convicted for that? How many times was it applied?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u58	Madam President, I would also like to refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u59	Madam President, Ms Bury, Mrs Rohonyi, I will take the initiative to supplement the Royal Decree of 3 February 2019, which sets out the material standards of the detention area for detainees, with a heading describing these standards for the secure cells. Such secure cells are provided for in Article 112 of the Basic Law governing special security measures. It describes the secure cell as a cell without objects whose use may be dangerous. This description corresponds to the finality of the use of some cells that are called time-out cells in one prison, in another irritable cells, and elsewhere. The specific equipment and the choice of materials for secure cells will be determined when the Royal Decree is amended. Care will be taken to ensure that the Haren cells comply with this order, but also with the standards of the Committee for the Prevention of Torture. The infrastructure and layout of the various individual meadows meet the standards set. On the question of what the concrete equipment will look like from what we will now call 'improved secure cells', I can answer the following. The choice of material will be determined when the change of the KB is made. We will, of course, ensure that these cells in Haren's prison conform to this. The cells will be effectively furnished according to CPT standards. The opening of the Haren prison will take place in phases. The opening of the various entities of the site and their occupation will take several months. The transfer of detainees will be linked to the reception and gradual commissioning of the various entities. The transfer of staff will be carried out in phases and will also be linked to the gradual opening of staff. The recruitment of new staff will therefore not have to be completed as soon as the first entity is opened, but it will continue in the following months. I can guarantee that every effort will be made to recruit the required staff in good time. I have, moreover, explained this in detail in the context of the questions about the overpopulation. I come to Mrs Bury's fourth question. The prison of Haren is conceived as a village and not as a classic star-shaped prison with a central control center according to the model of Ducpétiaux. Luckily, we got off that model. This means that the movements are organized differently. Applications for movements will be made by means of a badge. This gives the prisoners more autonomy, which is, by the way, a conscious choice. The infrastructure of the running lines and the technology inside and between the buildings makes it possible to do so in a coordinated and safe way. Employees will know at any time where an inmate is located on the site, and the detainees will only be able to enter those areas for which they are authorised. I can answer Mrs Bury's fifth question and Mrs Rohonyi's fourth question as follows. The city of Brussels and the outskirts of Brussels are very well accessible by public transport. In a radius of 2 to 3 km around the prison there are no less than three train stations and the Woluwelaan is well equipped in terms of bus connection. As far as I know, therefore, there is no problem of accessibility for visitors to the prison. Moreover, Haren's prison will offer continuous visits and will not work through fixed periods. Even if visitors have been delayed by public transport or traffic jams, a visit is not compromised or is not shortened. With regard to staff mobility, in October 2021 my administration conducted a short survey for officers in Brussels prisons and for the staff of the Communities active on the site. The goal was to have a clear vision of expectations. On the basis of the replies received, my administration is taking initiatives and gradually launching ad hoc procedures to set up a system of useful shuttles between one or more stations and the future Haren prison. The aim is to allow staff to organise their journeys to the best possible extent, to increase the number of routes possible, in particular by making use of the services of nearby stations, i.e. Haren, Haren-Sud and Diegem, to limit the duration of journeys and to encourage travel by public transport. As regards transfers between the prison and the courthouse, agreements have been reached between the administration of DG EPI, the DAB and the judiciary. In view of the fact that the transfer of the Brussels detainees will begin with the inmates of Forest, and also given the magnitude of the planned transfers and the start of the latter which will only begin in the autumn of this year, it is more than likely that the Saint-Gilles site will remain in operation until at least 2023, but I cannot give a definitive timetable at this time. Similarly, it is a little early to say what will happen to the Berkendael prison, whose general condition is rather good. Indeed, given the capacity of about 60 places, it is an interesting site. The organization of the right to complain falls within the competence of the Central Prison Supervision Board (CCSP). It is the CPSC, in accordance with article 26, which establishes a monitoring commission in each prison, whose members then form a complaints commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your very full answer. I actually got an answer to everything. The material standards of the secure cells will be added to the KB in time. As far as staff are concerned, of course, it is always a question of whether they can be recruited in good time. The movements on the site will be well monitored by means of the badge system. You also replied to the question of accessibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u61	Minister, I thank you for your answers even though I regret that I did not get more answers than in March 2021 when I asked about the transfer of inmates. I hear that this would be done in phases, but without further precision. I am concerned that these transfers will take time and require precise planning which still does not exist at present. You said at the time that we would probably start with Forest Prison because of its unsanitary nature. For visiting the prison in Saint-Gilles last December, I can assure you that it is just as much so that it also requires a rapid transfer of its detainees. I also remain concerned about the lack of a guarantee in terms of mobility. I understand that the town of Haren would be more or less well served by public transport, especially through its stations. This is probably the case for its visitors, but much less for the movement of detainees for their pleadings and their travels to the Brussels courthouse. It is already known that for the current prisons in Saint-Gilles and Forest, displacement is greatly disrupted by traffic jams. I can't imagine Haren's situation! You can imagine the use of video conferencing. I know your government is very fond of it. Bar associations, in particular, are reluctant to do so because of the problems it would pose for the rights of the defence. I therefore remain concerned about this. I hope these are subjects on which you will continue to work. As far as we are concerned, we will continue to investigate these various guarantees during our visit to the site of Haren prison under construction, planned, if I am not mistaken, next Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u62	Madam President, I would also like to refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u63	Mrs Bury, I can tell you that these two prisoners are still being tracked down. As far as your second question is concerned, in addition to an internal investigation by the competent prison administration department, the local police department has been on the scene and has searched the cells of the escapees. They also interviewed a third person, as well as the director. The available video surveillance footage has also been reviewed and investigated. The Luxembourg parquet was also on the spot. The initial studies revealed the following. First, the wall of the courtyard was climbed by means of a rope woven out of a sheet and attached to an anti-helicopternet. Secondly, the second wall was climbed by the accumulation of material stored between two ring walls, a normally inaccessible zone, using the crossbeams of the frame. As far as your third question is concerned, remedial measures have indeed been taken on the basis of the analysis. I am not going into detail about prison security systems, but I can confirm that a number of interventions have already taken place and a number of others are still planned. As far as your fourth question is concerned, I cannot give you any additional information, since the investigation is still ongoing. With regard to your fifth question concerning the transfer of criminals who are illegally staying in our country, we will also have a question from Mr De Wit. I can already tell you that the number of non-Belgian detainees transferred to the country of origin to serve their sentence in 2021 has been highest since the start of that operation in 2013. In 2021, 91 non-Belgian detainees were transferred. This makes our country one of the European summits. For each dossier, it must be examined individually whether it meets the conditions. The decision must be taken by the central authority on the basis of an analysis of the file. Of course, we are working on this together with Mr Mahdi.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u64	I understand that you cannot go into detail about how remediation has been done and how security has now been improved. The accumulation of material is strange of course. How much material can one touch to create a pile with which one can climb over the wall? One of my questions was whether there was any outside help. Was this studied? There's no clarity about that. As far as the transfer of criminals is concerned, you say that this needs to be looked at individually. You also say 2021 was the best year ever. It's about 91 files. I really don't think that's a figure to be proud of. You can say that we score high in Europe, but then the rest of Europe should not be proud either. We know who's in jail and how many illegals are in between. I read in the press about your best year ever. The countries with which there is an exchange are not the countries most of which are illegal in our prisons. Most of them are still illegal and cannot serve time in the country of origin. We need to work on that. This is also the most important solution for overpopulation in prisons. I look forward to that. I also hope that the two escaped prisoners will be caught soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u65	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u66	Mr Segers, I agree in principle that the reasons for the dismissal of files must be properly analysed, all the more so for a phenomenon which, under the old but also the in-depth new security plan, is a priority for the police. I did indeed ask the office of the Interdepartmental Coordination Cell for the Protection of Trafficking in Human Beings about the issue. In that cell Myria and the College of Attorney General are also represented. In the meantime, however, I would like to make the following reservations. Indeed, the number of dismissals has increased, as has the number of cases of trafficking in human beings entered by the public prosecutor between 2015 and 2020. In 2015 there were 299 files, in 2020 they were 373 files. In addition, almost 80% of the depots were for technical reasons, including unknown perpetrators. In these cases, therefore, it is not a question of dismissals for opportunity reasons. The parquet does indeed pay the necessary attention to the matters. Unfortunately, the secots do not surprise us for technical reasons. The cases of trafficking in human beings are usually very complex investigations where in many cases it is difficult to identify offenders and where there is yet another lack of cooperation from the victims. We have already discussed this in detail in our exchange of views. I hope that the newly established transit team will be able to contribute to the increase in the number of clarifications so that the number of sepots can also be reduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u67	Minister, I welcome your agreement that the issue needs to be analysed, and with your announcement that you will ask questions to the Interdepartmental Coordination Cell office. I wonder if you will back that up so that I can find out those answers. The number of dismissals has increased, as has the number of files. However, absolute figures also show a decrease in the number of undisclosed files. The fact that the increase in the number of dismissals would be purely a result of more reports seems to be wrong. When you refer to the fact that these are often unidentified offenders, I would like to hear what you will do with them. Why is that much more common than before? There must be a reason for the marked increase in the level of dismissal. I am curious to hear the answers from the Interdepartmental Coordination Cell, and I hope that you will then share those answers, which I assume you will.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u68	Madam President, Minister, I wish you a fruitful and dynamic but still peaceful year, if possible. It has been more than a year since I asked you about the serious problems encountered in the functioning of the Belgian Muslim Executive. I am not going here, again, to make the retroact of the problems, the contemptuous statements, the behaviour and the activism already emphasized by the State Security. The separation of powers and strict respect for the private management of associations must be ensured. But this does not prevent a determined public and political action being taken in the face of a situation such as that which we encounter in an institution representing the Muslim cult in Belgium. You said last month that public subsidies were refused to this institution for the year 2022 and this is an important decision. Vigilance must remain complete. This has been going on for years and the Commission of Inquiry into the Attacks has already revealed these threats to our State, with the risks it poses to public security. In response to one of my questions in December, you told me that a new Security Report should be sent to you by the end of 2021. Since then, there has been a new element in the case: it was the decision of 30 December 2021 of the company court that issued an extremely revealing order on the management and internal functioning of the Executive. In fact, I believe you have been asked by some members of the Executive who do not accept its current management. The order specifies that decisions have been taken by current leaders to remove other members by "definitively and illegally excluding them from its management". Among these leaders were Mr. Üstün, chairman of the internal committee organising the renewal of the governing bodies of the Belgian Muslim Executive. Mr Minister, since I was asking you about the credit that can be given to this procedure for the renewal of the executive bodies a few weeks ago, questions naturally arise. In the meantime, have you received the last State Security report that was to be provided to you before the end of the year? If so, what are the conclusions? Have your services ever been able to analyze the company court order of December 30, 2021? If so, what political or even judicial initiatives can the government take in the face of the shortcomings that have been identified, of course, in strict compliance with the rules? Finally, you have indicated that you have been directly informed by the current executive leaders that a procedure for the renewal of the bodies is under way. Considering the content of the court's order, can we endorse this procedure and therefore the future results of it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as your first question is concerned, I have not yet received the related State Security Report, but I expect it shortly. Regardless of this, we still have no view of the promised renewal of the EMB. In his communication to us, he indicated that the renewal would be finalized in early 2022. To date, we have no news on this subject, but that does not prevent me from taking further steps with respect for religious freedom. Following our interdepartmental conference at the end of last year, discussions will be held this month again between the various cabinets in order to develop a roadmap that will amend the 2017 Royal Decree on the EMB and with a system of linguistic chambers. These decisions must be taken at the inter-federal level because of our shared competences. A malfunctioning of the Belgian Muslim Executive has a direct impact on the regional organization of Islamic worship. With regard to your second question, we have studied this judgment in depth. The court decided not to address the question of the appointment of a provisional administrator because the applicants could have made their application earlier. Therefore, the judge had to conclude that an interim administrator was not necessary for the operation of the ASBL. Nevertheless, the Court finds clear and irrefutable irregularities in the functioning of the EMB and in the way the ASBL College deals with the ASBL Legislation and its own statutes. The hope of finding a structural solution with the current EMB is, as I said, becoming increasingly thinner. I didn't release the funds for 2022. I await the supporting documentation of all expenditures in January to justify the budgets requested for 2022. In this way, I want to know whether the means requested by the representative body are compatible with the law on public procurement. The EMB is required to comply with this requirement. If it does not do so correctly or not, the representative body may be subject to additional checks. As far as your third question is concerned, the promised renewal process is still waiting, which is another reason not to grant subsidies to the EMB at this time. As I have said on several occasions, the official representation of the Islamic religion in our country must be professional, transparent and representative. It is legitimate for you to ask whether we can trust the new composition of the Executive. This will depend first of all on the conclusions of the State Security report that we will receive shortly and then on the results of the financial audit that I have commissioned from the administration. Currently, the Muslim Executive has presented little evidence of real reform. There is a renewal commission, but it is mostly composed of former members of the EMB. Legally, it is difficult to withdraw existing recognition and to appoint a new body. An interdepartmental conference was held on 14 December. The Commission concluded that it was necessary to update the cooperation agreement, that clearer regulation was necessary with regard to State Security opinions and that the Royal Decree of 2016, as amended in 2017, would be properly implemented. All regional ministers recognise the problems within the EMB and declare that inter-federal cooperation is required to develop a common approach and strategy. In this context, it was decided that the Royal Decree of 15 February 2016 would be updated and implemented in the form of two autonomous linguistic chambers, of which a president would be responsible respectively for French-speaking and Dutch-speaking files. The text will be adapted in close consultation with regional ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u70	Minister, thank you for your clarification. I am pleased to hear that awareness-raising is taking shape and will continue in the wake of the Interdepartmental Conference. I was wondering if joint initiatives had been planned with the federated entities. You have preceded the expression of this concern. Like me, you know the expectations of the court order are crazy. These people must hear us, you and I, and realize that we are not fooled by this worrying situation. You have to act. In my view, you are right to wait for the findings of the State Security and Audit Report to measure the credit to be given to our interlocutors. In any case, we should not end up with interlocutors who will in no way alter the functioning of the Executive. Belgium would then face sacred risks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u71	Madam President, allow me first of all to offer all my best wishes for the new year. For the rest, I refer to the text of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u72	Dear colleague, with regard to your first two questions, the current prison in Mons is indeed in very poor condition. I am therefore of course in favour of replacing it with a new modern infrastructure, where a modern view of detention will be more easily applicable. I can't give you any more details about the project yet. My colleague, Secretary of State Mathieu Michel, is currently preparing the file. In its current version, the masterplan does not provide for the construction of a new prison in Mons. This point will therefore have to be advanced within the framework of this masterplan. I will support this project. On the third issue, the administration will conduct a feasibility study to examine the extent to which and how staff can be strengthened due to overpopulation. The results of this study will be shared with the unions, as I said at the beginning of today's session. This commitment was made by the authorities during the trade union negotiations of 31 December 2021, following the announcement of a strike in the Walloon and Brussels prisons due to overcrowding and lack of staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u73	Mr Minister, I note that you are in favour of the project to build a new prison in Mons, but at the same time it is not foreseen in the masterplan, which worries me a little. Of course, we can commit to supporting a project, but if it is planned in ten years' time, we are not very advanced. But there is a real urgency. The prison suffers from overcrowding; it is in a deplorable state which, in my view, is not improved. There is therefore a real need to build a new prison, adapted to current standards. That is indisputable, and I invite you to speed up this matter as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u74	I refer to the written version of my oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u75	Madam President, you have asked a number of specific questions. As for your question about the technical conditions, the typology of the building must be suitable for a permanent stay of 20 to 60 persons. To this end, it must be possible to adapt easily, with limited intervention. Clear standards have been set for the bedrooms in accordance with the Royal Decree of 3 February 2019, and the conditions to be met by the different rooms include sanitary, safety and facilities. There must be sufficient spaces to offer facilities, both for residents and for staff. The spaces are clearly described as well as the criteria to be met. Connections for the use of audiovisual equipment and ICT applications should be possible in the multi-purpose and commonly used premises. In the entire building a good Wi-Fi area or good alternative connection to the Internet should be possible. As for your second and third questions, the detention house is preferably located in or near an urban context as it facilitates access to assistance and services and employment. Therefore, the proximity of good public transport is also important. The prisoner must be able to move easily to his/her workshop or to use certain services. Good accessibility by public transport is also important for staff and visitors. The site may consist of different construction units insofar as they form a functional and subsequent whole. In addition, the site and/or the building preferably has a residential and/or residential function or the building or site offers the possibility to perform works so that the living or residence function can be created. The availability and cost of the sites are also taken into account. As far as your fourth and fifth questions are concerned, the locations currently designated or investigated were selected on the basis of the ownership of the Government of the Buildings, sites proposed by the governors and mayors and prospecting by the Government of the Buildings. The sites and buildings are visited by a team of Justice and the Government of the Buildings. Justice and the Regie work closely together in these files. The negotiations with the owners are conducted by the Government of the Buildings. Because we want to anchor detention homes permanently as a model of execution, we prefer to acquire the premises. Pending final locations there can also be temporary work through rental contracts. Nor is the option of transfer pricing excluded. A number of municipalities have proposed this. As soon as a site is positively evaluated by the Justice and the Government of the Buildings, contact is made with local government. For the success of the detention house, it is important that we can work closely with local government here. We're gonna bet maximum on this. We also do information meetings with the population together with the local government. As for your last question regarding the former hotel, there is consultation with local government, so the slope is still in an exploratory phase. The building could accommodate some 60 people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u76	Minister, I will, of course, continue to follow up the specific dossier of my region and the files on other sites planned in my province. For the rest, I can only agree with the other Members. You have proposed a number of detention homes for a specific category of inmates in order to reduce the overpopulation. Of course, as you know, we are in favour of the principle, since we used to be involved in such projects. However, I would like to ask how things are going to evolve. You mentioned earlier that Kortrijk will open by the summer of 2022. From the questions raised by Members from the region in previous questions, I conclude that there are still some problems in the Verviers dossier. We are currently stuck in two locations. However, I am curious about the next locations and the time when they will be realised in the future. Nevertheless, I would like to thank you for the answers you have given to my more technical questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u77	Madam President, I refer to the question tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u78	Mrs De Wit, first of all, staff have no figures of the number of infections as they are not reported to the prison director. As you are no doubt aware, the federal officials must report absences due to illness to Medex and not to the employer. Consequently, we do not have any figures. It was not possible to collect all the data in good time, but on the basis of preliminary figures we know that a positive test was carried out in 100 prisoners in the week from 3 to 9 January, but there are still data missing from some prisons. On 3 January there were a total of 209 prisoners in medical isolation. Secondly, on 10 January this year, 1,069 staff were absent for all prisons, 996 of which were sick and 73 were quarantined. We are not yet seeing an alarming trend in the number of absences, but we are, of course, following the situation very closely. Thirdly, section A, at present the continuity of services has not been compromised, including through the application of strict protection measures and the limitation of external contacts, in line with the decisions of the Consultative Committee. In addition, prison staff were vaccinated as a priority and the administration of booster vaccines in society is at cruising speed. According to the most recent directives, people who have had high-risk contact and have been vaccinated less than five months ago or who have had a booster should no longer be quarantined and can stay at work. This is a little less likely to result in an extremely high drop-out in our prisons, but it does take account of the possibility that this could happen. Due to the high infection of omikron, it is not excluded that more infections will occur, including among staff. If that situation were to arise, the activities of detainees could be phased out in consultation with the administration. Then there is a waterfall system, whereby the police can initially be called on for assistance and in a second phase on the army. Thirdly, part B, so far there are few problems with guaranteeing basic rights. If there is insufficient staff, the government can decide to suspend a number of activities. This will focus on activities for which there is no legal obligation. Thirdly, hatch C, there is no problem there. If the security of a prison were compromised, which is an extreme situation, external support would be called upon, in a first phase of the police, in a second phase of the army. Fourthly, other measures are not currently being discussed. We await the impact of the early release before examining other measures, but we also closely monitor the situation there.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u79	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As for many other sectors, it will certainly be a challenge for the prison system to keep everything running as well as possible in the coming weeks. I wait with you and hope that everyone there is working on their emergency plans, just like all the services, hospitals, administrations, governments and the police and fire department are. If you would need police and defence with your waterfall system if there were a shortage of penitentiary officers, then we must be aware that there will also be a failure there and that they will have to cover elsewhere. I'll follow this with you. It is good that for the time being no other measures are being taken with regard to the suspension or interruption of the execution of the sentence, because this remains the core task, but I can imagine that decisions will have to be taken over time. I think that any sector that Omikron will soon be over and that the situation will remain manageable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u80	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55023813C, 55023815C, 55023818C, 55023819C and 55023821C by Mrs Rohonyi are postponed until next week
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u81	"Mr. Minister, I was alerted that a prisoner died in Nivelles prison at night. According to my information, an alarming condition would have been observed at night - it was spitting blood - but there was no doctor on site and there was no medical intervention. The next morning, he died.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u82	More broadly, what are the medical standards in force in terms of medical presence in prisons, in particular in terms of the constant presence on the spot?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u83	Dear colleague, in November, a prisoner in Nivelles prison died during the night. The detainee was detained on 24 November and, in accordance with article 89 of the Act of 12 January 2005, he went to the medical consultation of the prison within 24 hours. The doctor prescribed drugs for his symptoms, but no serious problems were identified. Unfortunately, he died unexpectedly on 27 November. As always in such cases, the prosecutor's office has been warned. He went to the scene and, as can happen when the death occurs unexpectedly, a medical examiner has been appointed. He found a natural death. With regard to your second question, there are obviously specific instructions in such cases. In case of death in prison, regardless of the situation and time, the attending physician and/or emergency medical services and the public prosecutor's office are always notified. Where appropriate, the Prosecutor's Office may take the initiative to appoint a medical examiner. With regard to your third question, there is no prohibition on entering a cell. Assistance will always be provided to the inmate in the event of an emergency. However, for safety reasons, specific procedures are provided for entering a cell during the night. In particular, the hierarchy must be informed and must give its authorization. With regard to your fourth question, if urgent medical assistance is required, service 100 is used. If a doctor or nurse is present in the facility at that time, they will take care of it. If this is not the case, an official present in the prison will take the initiative. With regard to your fifth question, there is no permanent presence of a doctor in prisons. In all prisons, there is a medical consultation every day of the week, including weekends. Inmates can register for the consultation, there is no pre-screening. Apart from the hours of consultation, the first recourse is the treating physician associated with the prison or the local duty station of general practitioners. Procedures are in place in each prison to allow on-call doctors to enter the prison. They also have access to the list of prisoners who are incarcerated in the prison and the medicines they are taking. In all emergency situations, Service 100 is called. This way of working is similar to how medical services are organized in free society.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u84	Minister, thank you for your answers, which are quite general in nature. For example, I did not understand if you gave me, for example, the medical standards that are in force. Are there minimum standards for the presence of such a medical profile by X inmates? On the other hand, you describe a general procedure, but I am still a little surprised at the information I received, according to which an alarming condition was observed during the night by someone in the prison, but that there was finally no medical intervention. It follows that, in the morning, the person had died. You're telling me the prosecutor's office is here. I guess you can't comment on a case that's going on. However, it is still necessary to shed light on this matter, which is still a matter of great concern, particularly if it was found that a serious condition was found in an inmate that night and that no intervention was planned, which could have led to his death. If you have any specific information about this case later, I would really like to know about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u85	Mrs Hugon, I will provide you with more information in writing on the elements you have indicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u86	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Dallemagne's 55023832C and 55023835C are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u87	Minister, in December I submitted a written question on the number of prisoners of foreign origin with a valid residence permit returned to their country of origin. It's a bit of a shame I had to read the answer to that on your facebook page. At the beginning of this week, you extracted figures on convicted non-Belgen who are now serving their sentence in their country of origin. I sincerely hope, Minister, that this will not become a habit, because I do not think it is very respectful. I like to get the answers to my questions first, before they can be found in the media or on Facebook. All right, so I've heard that the last year 91 prisoners were deported to their country of origin to serve their sentence. You made it clear that that would be a record. It is important that you make more efforts to do so. That is a good thing, both in view of the overpopulation of our prisons and in the light of the budget, because in the end we will not have to incur certain costs. You call it a record, but it's still a low score. It's actually just a tissue for the bleeding. This represents less than 1% of the total prison population, while, for example, an occupation of just 190 % was not measured in the Antwerp prison last month. It wasn't clarified in your Facebook message, but I suspect those 91 inmates had a valid residence permit. However, there is still a very large group of prisoners without a valid residence permit, who are illegal in our country, which must also be given absolute attention and which must be used for return. I indicated earlier that former Secretary of State Theo Francken and former Justice Minister Geens managed to return 1,400, 1,500 and even 1,600 illegal prisoners to their country of origin every year. The Secretary of State and the Minister have worked well together there. That is, of course, a very big drink, Minister. That could be record numbers again. Since you are talking about a record number of 91 returned prisoners, can you provide the figures for the three previous years? That's how we can make the equation. How many prisoners are currently in Belgian prisons without a valid residence permit? What is the current policy on illegal immigrants in prison? Is there a plan of action to make extra efforts to return to their homeland? Do records die here too, even though we are still faced with the covid pandemic? Have you discussed this with the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration in the last year? If so, what are the results of the consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u88	Mrs De Wit, first of all I would like to comment on your introductory remarks. I'm not in the habit of answering written questions in the press. I believe that your question, which dates from the end of December, and the format of my press release have crossed. In any case, it is not my ambition or intention to work in a different way. I come to your first question. In 2018, there were 69 shipments, in 2019 there were 86 shipments, and in 2020, of course, the covid pandemic was a lot lower with 34 shipments. On your second question, there are 3.315 non-Belgian prisoners without the right to stay in our prisons. However, a clear distinction must be made. The figure of 1,600 to which you refer refers refers refers to the number of returned foreigners without the right to reside in their country of origin, after they have served a sentence in Belgium, which falls within the competence of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. In addition, there are transfers of detained aliens to their country of origin with a view to further serving their sentence, which falls within my jurisdiction. It's 91 people. I would like to do more about the approach of the latter group, because 91 has been the best result since 2013, but of course we are not satisfied with that figure. This may be higher, because I believe that Austria is presenting the best result with some 200 people. Of course, it's not about thousands of people. What more do we really want to do? First of all, we want to identify better and proactive prisoners who are eligible for transfer. For the sake of clarity, that will not be about 3,000 people, but we need to look carefully at which files are eligible for transfer. Secondly, 40% of those inmates want to return voluntarily in order to be closer to home. This is also interesting in the context of social reintegration. We will therefore better inform prisoners that they can serve their sentence in the country of origin. Thirdly, for the sake of the offices of our prisons, we will repeat the instruction that they indicate this possibility, which is also intended to reduce the overpopulation. In cooperation with the Foreign Affairs Office, we will also remind the countries of origin of the possibility of transferring a fellow countryman. In this sense, it may also be interesting to meet ambassadors, which has not happened since 2013. Furthermore, we will of course also be working on the negotiation of new bilateral transfer agreements. We have the ambition to do it even better every year, if possible and if Corona allows us to do it. As for your final question, the FPS Justice Department is working very closely with the Foreign Affairs Office. The so-called COTER Working Party (Coordination Return) meets quarterly. In this working group, the various competent Cabinets and Administrations discuss the cooperation. Information is exchanged, good practices are shared, problems are raised and solutions sought. This ensures better cooperation between the various services.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u89	Mr Minister, at the moment we are talking about a snapshot of 3.315 non-Belgian prisoners without a valid residence. So there are a lot of opportunities to do something about the overpopulation in this way, without people avoiding their punishment, because that is obviously not the intention. I take note that you want to bet more on this. That's important. I am glad that there is good cooperation in that regard. I am certainly convinced that this is an opportunity to solve the problem we have today in our prisons in part. I would therefore urge you to do something about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u90	I refer to the written version of my oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u91	Madam President, indeed, this question was not added to the wide debate on prisons because it is very specific about the Brussels prisons. The strike of 24 December 2021 expired within the existing legal framework. This means that the trade unions had submitted a strike commitment and that there was a consultation following the announcement. That did not yield the desired result. Prior to the strike announcement, there was also regular consultations on the specific problems within the Brussels prisons. In May 2021, a social mediation led by a social mediator was launched to restore confidence. This mediation was concluded without agreement on 13 December 2021. As far as your second question is concerned, a proposal for a protocol has indeed been drawn up in the context of a strike announcement made a few months ago. However, the trade unions decided to stop. So the protocol was never signed. The government decided to implement the initiatives included in the protocol proposal as they are in the interest of the detainees, the staff and the organisation. A great deal of effort is being made by the Executive Board to implement the protocol. Most points have been largely or partly realised. I can understand why the staff would want things to go faster. We understand very much the difficult conditions in which people have to work, but the fact that the protocol is stopped regularly does not make it easy for the government to implement it quickly and in an orderly manner. For example, scheduled meetings had to be moved because of the strike. This demonstrates the complexity of the problem. As far as your third question is concerned, the government makes daily adjustments to the regime based on the effective presence of the staff. There's definitely an increase in absenteeism from the pandemic. Every day, activities on one of the three sites of the Brussels prisons have to be removed for lack of staff. There is a fundamental difference between doing this exercise daily, based on the needs of that day, and deciding to systematically abolish activities until the opening of the prison of Haren. The government is not in favour of this. These proposals were therefore not followed. It should also be noted that a significant part of the detention activities are within the framework of aid and services and that this is a competence of a federated entity. We do not believe that we should unilaterally decide whether or not the staff of these authorities can do their job in prisons. As far as your fourth question is concerned, there is currently a recruitment procedure for 100 statutory prison guards. The recruitment is intended not only to fill the framework, but also to implement the changes to the place of employment, i.e. changes. The recruitment of new staff for Haren's prison will be carried out gradually, as the prison will enter into force in stages. Given the size of the site, recruitment will continue when the first entities open. As far as your last question is concerned, the staff framework is 626 FTEs. These are figures for December 24, 2021. There is currently 97.2 % of that framework. As regards absences due to illness and quarantine in Brussels prisons, 120 staff were absent from the framework for surveillance and engineering due to illness. That's 21.8 % of the staff. Four employees were quarantined. On 24 December 2021, therefore, the absence rate was 22,93 % due to disease or quarantine. It is not possible to analyse in the short term how many long-term sick people are involved. As regards the withdrawal of leave, no additional rest or leave shall be granted in the event of a strike as soon as a strike notice is lodged and the strike day is granted. Leaves already granted or rest are not withdrawn until today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u92	Of course, Minister, I understand that it is not easy to conclude an agreement. I also heard the figures of the absences from the pandemic. They are, of course, making matters more difficult. Nevertheless, I hope that a solution will be found quickly and that recruitment can be carried out quickly or work can continue. After all, we heard the police too. Every strike in prison ends up with the police, who have to jump in. This also creates problems for the police themselves. A solution must therefore be found as soon as possible, otherwise there will be major problems on two fronts. This must be avoided in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u93	Madam President, Minister, allow me first of all to express my best wishes for prosperity, happiness, private and professional projects and above all for their success. In the meantime, I will ask you a question concerning your administration, since you are in charge of the prison administration. You are aware, Minister, that on December 6th, the mayor of Tournai made an order in respect of the prison in Tournai. The order ordered the prison manager to reduce prison overcrowding by limiting the occupancy of cells in the prison's wing C. Indeed, the C wing of Tournai Prison is the one where detainees are concentrated in pre-trial detention. For 47 places available, there were, to my knowledge, more than 103 prisoners. But that was not the only alarming finding. While Belgium is facing the omicron wave, in this prison there has also been one of the most disturbing health promiscuity. The city's fire department and emergency planning officers have thus made reservations about the condition of the buildings. In doing so, they merely repeated the remarks made by the unions. On Monday, 21 December, the prison management informed the municipal authorities that it had complied with their decision. Seventeen convicts were transferred to other institutions. Minister, is it up to the municipal authorities to take measures to limit overcrowding in prisons? I know that this is not exactly the same context, but it is still an overpopulation, given the figures I have quoted. Their intervention can never be only cyclical, since it is taking place in the context of the health crisis, while the crisis of prison overcrowding is structural and calls for structural solutions. You have already begun this work by transferring foreign detainees to their country of origin to serve their sentences. In the press, you said "put on more transfers by carrying out a proactive screening of more prisoners and initiating the procedures for their transfer". In this context, can you tell me the number of prisoners in Tournai Prison who could be transferred in order to alleviate the work of staff and, above all, to improve the conditions of detention of those living in Tournai Prison?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u94	Mrs Marghem, I also wish you all the best. Under communal law, the mayor can actually take measures to ensure cleanliness, health, safety and public tranquillity in his territory. The law in question does not specify what measures are involved, but it is in this context that the mayor sometimes imposes restrictions on prisons in terms of maximum population or, as in Tournai, in terms of maximum occupancy per cell. In such a case, this means that detainees must be evacuated to other prisons, which is a suboptimal situation as it shifts the problem by adding a logistical problem related to the transfers to be made. Meanwhile, as you know, the realization of masterplans continues. In addition, the capacity of the transitional houses will be increased in 2022 from 30 to 100 places. In 2019, with 86 transfers, Belgium ranked fourth behind Austria, Italy and the United Kingdom. After a certain slowdown in 2022 due to covid measures, transfers were able to resume last year at a steady pace. Thus, 91 non-Belgian detainees were transferred in 2021, thus breaking the record recorded in 2019. The countries to which most transfers have been made are the Netherlands, France, Romania, Poland, Bulgaria and Italy. It is the central authority that analyses the records of the detainees, including conditions, and conducts a written interview before making a decision on the return. The list of these files is not linked to a prison but to formal and legal conditions. These conditions change regularly according to the decisions handed down and their final status. The number of detainees who are actually in the conditions of the prison in Tournai cannot therefore be provided, since each case is analysed individually and continuously. Of the 91 transfers made in 2021, 2 transfers took place from the prison in Tournai.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic652x.u95	Minister, thank you for your answers, which I will analyse.
