ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister can stay until 6 p.m. today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u2	Minister, I would like to take the floor immediately to ask a number of questions on a very important subject, namely energy bills. Until recently, you did not consider that there could be any reduction in VAT on energy. However, our party was very much in favour of this. We have tabled proposals on this in committee. Last week, you made a 180-degree bend and suggested temporarily reducing the VAT on gas and electricity from 21 % to 6 %. Flemish Interest can only welcome your moving insight. You were to put that proposal on the government table as soon as possible, you stated at the VRT last week. However, last week the Prime Minister did not seem to have won for that VAT reduction. He said there were still several proposals on the table. That is what he said in plenary last week, including in response to a question from our party. First of all, Minister, I would like to quote what you said at the VRT: 'We are well aware of the fact that we need to do something about energy prices and that, as a government, we must make efforts to do so. We put the idea on the table yesterday that the additional revenue we have from VAT will be returned to the families." You stated that as Minister of Finance in October 2021 at the VRT. In the meantime, we know that the budget for the energy standard provides for a sum of 156 million and for the extension of the extended tariff to an amount of 208 million. However, these are certainly not the total additional revenue that would be returned to the population. Hence my first question. How much is the estimated monthly increase in excise duties and VAT on gas and electricity due to the recent increase in prices? I would like an answer in millions of euros. Secondly, when are you going to put the proposal for a VAT reduction on the government table? When will this proposal be discussed and put to the vote in Parliament? Thirdly, the analyses of the VAT reforms indicate that temporary VAT reductions lead to higher prices in the long term. For the record, our party is in favour of a permanent VAT reduction. A VAT reduction is only reduced, while the subsequent VAT increase is fully passed on to the consumer, giving rise to a permanent price increase. In 2014, VAT was temporarily reduced. Tax experts point out that this temporary VAT reduction has ultimately led to a permanent increase in the price of electricity. How can we avoid that the temporary VAT reduction that you are proposing will result in a permanent increase in gas and electricity prices? Is a permanent VAT reduction not preferable? Most people who get an advance bill for gas and electricity on the bus this month will pay as much as 36 % more. This is demonstrated by a calculation of the VRT. After a first sharp increase in the autumn, prices are now rising if possible even stronger and improvement does not seem immediately in sight. During the first weeks of this year tens of thousands of customers saw their monthly advance bill double or triple. For some people, the sharp increases in energy prices are really getting out of hand. A listener of the program The Inspector on Radio 2 saw her advance bill rise from 400 euros to almost 1,300 euros per month. What opportunities do you see to help these people? I also have a question about the latest topicality. You have launched a number of proposals, such as a temporary VAT reduction which would then become conditional or be linked to higher excise duties. Several newspapers report that you are proposing to lower VAT on gas and electricity to 6% from 1 February, at least until 1 July or 1 October. Only families and single people would benefit from this VAT reduction. This is a temporary VAT measure which aims to buy time until a detailed solution can be presented that will apply until the end of the year. Can you confirm that your proposal of temporary VAT reduction would start on 1 February? Should that temporary VAT reduction end for you on 1 July or 1 October? Is it true that only families and single people will be able to benefit from the measure? For the solution that has been worked out, you would put two proposals on the table. The first proposal concerns a mechanism whereby VAT on gas and electricity for households falls to 6% when wholesale prices exceed a certain threshold. Can you confirm that? Where would that threshold be? Is that as in Spain at 35 euros per megawatt hour? The second proposal concerns a system whereby VAT is simply increased to 6%, but its cost for the State Treasury is offset by higher excise duties. Can you confirm that this proposal is on the table? Finally, have you discussed the temporary VAT reduction and the two proposals for a detailed solution within the government? If not, when will they be placed on the government table? If so, what was the reaction of the coalition partners? How feasible and realistic are the proposals?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u3	Mr Minister, as you know, the population can no longer pay high energy prices. There are two components: fuel and domestic energy. As far as fuel is concerned, at the plenary session on 20 October 2021 you were in line with my colleague and colleague, Raoul Hedebouw, who suggested that you lower the excise duties by announcing that you would propose to the government to apply the reverse cliquet of reducing excise duties to compensate for the price increase. You obviously delayed making this request, but it is assumed that it was finally formulated since you recently stated on RTL that within Vivaldi, the liberals, the socialists and the ecologists were not hot for this inverted click. As far as domestic energy is concerned, since 2007 the PTB has been defending a reduction in VAT from 21% to 6%. To date, our petition for this measure has received 300,000 signatures. Since you were Minister of Finance, you have repeated to us an incalculable number of times that it was a bad idea, before declaring to the VRT, a few days after the Epiphany, like a fourth Mage king guided by the red star of the PTB, that you found this idea excellent but in a temporary form. Within Vivaldi, it is not unanimous, but we can see that more and more training seems to be in favour of this idea of a reduction in VAT on energy. Minister, on these two energy issues, where are we? Is your political weight sufficient within the government to achieve these two advances or at least one of them? As I said, we feel that there is, in any case, some progress on VAT with certain parties that seem to be moving in that direction. I would also point out that there are French-speaking and Dutch-speaking socialists who have 6 per cent VAT bills. Why do you only consider 6% VAT on a temporary basis? Is energy not a basic product justifying the application of the reduced VAT rate, such as for water, food or medicines? Would a temporary VAT not be counterproductive to the purchasing power of the population since it would not bring a lasting reduction in this VAT while having a possible negative impact on wage indexation? In other words, does it require smart VAT for employers or smart VAT for workers, i.e. a reduction in permanent VAT? Finally, do you intend to review the taxation of the profits of energy producers so that they contribute to the financing of a reduction in the bill for the population? The PTB's research department calculated that there was an over-profit of 2.5 billion released by Electrabel on the basis of the current increase in energy prices. There's plenty to go for money to finance such a drop in VAT.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u4	Madam President, I wanted to join colleagues' questions in this fundamental debate for our citizens. This was recalled last Thursday in plenary, and many of our fellow citizens have extremely difficult endings because of the drastic rise in energy prices. The most fragile and disadvantaged audiences already have - and this is happy - access to the social tariff. More and more middle-class people - workers and single-parent families even with good wages - see at the end of the month the difficulties that are growing. This situation is a source of great concern for my Ecolo-Groen Group, as you know already in plenary, Mr Minister. The government is asking itself what it is going to do in the very short term, just as Parliament is asking itself. Several solutions are under discussion and I would like you to take stock. Through the press this morning, whether in L'Echo or De Tijd, several formulas on the table were mentioned. Environmentalists are not in favour of a general reduction in the VAT rate indefinitely because it does not target those in need of urgent and concrete assistance. As we say to the disadvantaged, we plead for continuity and the extension of access to the social tariff, also for the middle class, those workers who have difficulties at the end of the month. For us, this group is not the whole population. It is therefore estimated that this measure is not sufficiently targeted and risks undermining wage indexation, which points to a rise in inflation: around +/- 5.5%. Employees will benefit from an indexation of their wages, which we look forward to. But if we structurally lower VAT, it is likely to be much less important. Therefore, the efficiency/cost ratio of such a measure is not ideal. On the other hand, there are other options on the table. There is a question of extending the social tariff, of cheques. It's something interesting, as long as it targets families who need it first. Finally, I was referring to articles in the press, especially this morning, on the various options around VAT. As I said, the option of lowering it completely, for all audiences, is not for us the best. On the other hand, there are others. It is possible to play in particular on excise duties according to the price of energy, in order to be able to lighten the bills of households. These are obviously interesting options. I wanted you to take stock with us in this debate. I do not teach you anything, for us, a concrete solution in the very short term must be found because households are increasingly in difficulty because of this rise in energy prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u5	Minister, I had a very specific question about different possible VAT rates for a product, but you have already replied in the newspaper. I understand you can't do this. I have looked at the situation in Europe for a moment and I must say that there is no straight line. I do not see that aspect anywhere, but in some places it makes a distinction in the VAT system for the user. We do not need to engage in this extensive debate today, but I would like to mention a number of countries such as Cyprus and the Czech Republic, which still apply different types of VAT arrangements. This has also been done in Romania, for example, for families with a monthly consumption of up to 300 kilowatt hours. So there is a difference. However, all this is not so important to me. The most important thing is what we will do with the huge invoices that are threatening to get all the families in our country today. That is what the debate is about. All solutions are good, but you know which solution is ahead in the first place, namely a reduction in VAT to 6%. Mr Vanden Burre has just spoken about extending the social tariff, and that is interesting, but of course it is not possible to protect every family in the country with the social rate. So I do not understand the resistance to the VAT reduction. A VAT reduction is quick, has an impact and makes sense to us because energy is a basic product. There may be a number of side effects to such a VAT reduction, but smart policies can be used to steer it. Ultimately, the VAT reduction also fits in with the energy transition, in which, according to everyone, electricity should become cheaper. As far as we are concerned, therefore, this still seems to be the best measure. I will leave it at that, but perhaps you can say something about the different VAT rates?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u6	Mr Minister, I would like to inform you that the MR is very attentive to the critical situation of the middle class, given the rise in energy prices in the markets. You are not without having that the price of gas is ten times more important than about a year ago and that the price of electricity is five times more important than about a year ago, this being related. This staggering increase is also to be analysed in a particular geopolitical context and in a context of recovery after the health crisis. Perhaps in a few months, will it calm down? In any case, the situation will never return very quickly to acceptable levels. The social rate that already covers 20% of the population should not, in our view, be extended beyond because someone still has to pay. You, as Minister of Finance, are well placed to know that. The middle class remains in the middle of the bowling process because, by means of its bill, it supports, on the one hand, the social tariff and, on the other hand, the competitiveness of our enterprises, which also suffer, mainly small and medium-sized enterprises. This large middle class is the self-employed, it's the traders, it's the small and medium-sized enterprises, it's some employees, it's the pensioners, it's some civil servants. We never talk about it, but it represents a lot of people who are already having great difficulty in taking on the corrections that are made on their electricity bills by their supplier. Those who have chosen a fixed contract and who are often linked to an energy producer have a little more chance during the sale of the fixed contract but when the contract expires, it will be renegotiated with the operator and it will be influenced by market prices at that time. As a result, there are several avenues open to the government. I think the solution is there and that is what we are defending. These leads must all be explored at different dosages. We are in favour of a deepening and widening of the cliquet which is a driver which can be used at the outset of the new excise duties which have been created in the bill but this still does not solve your problem which is that of the feeding of this money which will return to the consumer to such a great extent since this middle class still represents not bad of our fellow citizens. The increase in revenue you see from VAT on electricity bills will not be enough. I therefore encouraged the Minister of Energy to have the surpluses raised by any energy producer (gas, renewables or nuclear) examined and to see that they were the profit margins that they gained by increasing prices on the market. This will determine what can be captured to add strength to your mill. This will also allow you, in addition to the reduction in VAT that you are now advocating and to which I have always been open – although the solution is not perfect and it must also be nuanced – to have enough means to give consumers a share of their effort. That's why we could talk about a discount. It's an idea that was launched within the MR by Mr. Piedboeuf. Let us return to Caesar what is Caesar's! This concept is a very interesting concept because when citizens, through their electricity bills and fees, support renewable energy, for example, it is clear that this support is now excessive in view of the very large profits generated by renewables operators. It is therefore normal for a rebate to be made at the start of these over-profits, for example by renewable operators, at this extremely critical time for consumers. I am waiting to hear what good news you are going to tell us following this morning's Kern, which I have no doubt dealt with these questions, unless I am wrong, but you will correct me. So we're listening to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, many of you have stressed the importance of this debate. Prices for gas and electricity are rising significantly and the energy bill is becoming particularly heavy for many people. The theme of the rising advance invoices and the year-end account that is to come is very hard. In this discussion, I am fully on the side of the citizens and the families. This month, energy prices have increased exceptionally and dramatically. The current situation is different from that of November. An exceptional situation requires exceptional measures. The measures already taken by the federal government to protect the most vulnerable, such as the social rate, the 80 euro premium and the additional support through the OCMWs. This protection is important, but today we notice that the very large group of people affected by rising energy prices is increasing. Madam President, you rightly referred to the fact that middle-class families are getting harder to pay their invoices today. We must also support them. We have been looking for solutions for that group for a long time, but if we decide something, it must be effective and legal and it must also produce more for the citizen than any unintended side effects. I have always repeated this in this House. The federal government has only limited tools to support people: cheques, excises, VAT. As far as excise duties and VAT are concerned, I have drawn up concrete proposals, as Finance Minister, which are currently under discussion within the government. I was asked by several Members of Parliament exactly what that proposal means. My proposal involves a sensible and sustainable solution, a sustainable solution that takes time, a proposal that also takes into account the impact of all possible consequences and, at the same time and above all, has a quick and significant impact on our families' bill. After all, that is a question that I have received here several times. The proposal I submitted to the government is in stages. A first phase is the fastest and most effective option, i.e. a temporary reduction in VAT from 21% to 6%. During that first phase, we need to take the time to work on a solution that is sensible and sustainable, so that we can get in touch with energy suppliers in this way. That's why I worked out two slopes. One slope is a slope that we call the Spanish model. Mr Verduyckt, you referred to different possibilities. Well, the Spanish model is one of the options. As you know, any proposal to reduce VAT on electricity and gas must be submitted to Europe. This proposal has already passed that EU test, so we will make VAT rates depend on the level of the daily price for electricity. A second slope is the slope where we reduce VAT to 6%, but make the link with excise duties. In this way we can differentiate much better and we have more room for manoeuvre with these excise duties. That is the proposal that I have put on the table: in the first phase a temporary reduction quickly and effectively and in the second phase work towards a sensible and sustainable solution, depending on the slope chosen. It is clear to me that by putting this proposal on the table we have entered into an important debate, a debate on the energy bill of the most vulnerable, but also of the large group of people who are getting more and more difficult to pay them. Like you, I hope that the decision will be taken quickly, so that we can offer our families, the large group of the working middle class, quick relief.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u8	Minister, I fully agree that the context has changed. Just before Christmas, a hearing was held to show that there is not only a significant increase, but that it is clear that these prices will remain high for a long time. It is very good that you say that we now need measures with a rapid and direct impact. In advance, your proposal for a temporary reduction in VAT will certainly be supported. It has always been said that this is a good and logical measure. I have no problem with you considering how to implement this further. We do need quick measures that our families feel. We'll see what it's gonna be eventually. It is clearly progressing and this is in stark contrast to other levels today. The Flemish Minister for Energy puts a lot of energy into reaching out to others, but does little today. It's a good thing you're working on it. In any case, this debate will continue with a great deal of attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u9	Minister, you promised to reduce VAT for the greatly increased gas and electricity bill from 21% to 6%. We'll keep that promise. Earlier, you promised to tackle the greatly increased price of diesel and petrol at the pump by introducing the reverse cliquet system. A proverb says: "Many promises and little give, makes the madman live in joy." At the request and initiative of Flemish Interest, you confirmed in Parliament that you would intervene in the price of petrol and diesel. That was in all the papers, but ever since then it has remained deafeningly silent about it. Until today, we have heard nothing of this proposal, a real bitch. The increase in the price at the pump means that many hundreds of millions of euros disappear into Mr Van Peteghem's pockets, or at least into the pockets of the state treasury. The same applies to the energy bill. The increase in gas and electricity bills also means that many hundreds of millions of euros will disappear into the pockets of the state treasury. In the budgetary negotiations, you promised to give that money back to the people, but nothing is less true today. If millions of development aid are to be distributed in Africa or new asylum centres are to be opened in Flanders, it cannot be done quickly enough for this government. When it comes to our own people, who are having trouble paying their gas and electricity bills, when it comes to our own people, who are having trouble filling up their car, suddenly it's slow, there's no money and suddenly it can't all go so fast. We will stay on your heels here as a Flemish interest. We stand up for our own people. Give the many millions you're bringing in today by increasing taxes on the rising prices of diesel, petrol, gas and electricity back to the people, to our people at last. Lower the price to the pump and remove all the plague taxes from the energy bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am pleased to see that the lines are moving. This 6% VAT that the PTB has been defending since 2007 was totally impossible for you a few weeks ago. You had a battery of arguments against this measure. Today, you are making a proposal that incorporates this idea of 6% VAT and we can only welcome it. As far as the modalities are concerned, there is room for discussion. Your proposal can be summarized as follows: after a provisional phase, you would either switch to a yo-yo VAT or to yo-yo excise duties. That's not exactly what people expect. People expect a 6% VAT rate without increasing other taxes such as excise duties. Energy is a commodity of primary necessity. VAT on water, food products and medicines is 6%. VAT on champagne is 21%. Why not charge 6%? It will be said that money must be found for the financing of the measure. The PTB's research department calculated that ENGIE Electrabel would realize 2.5 billion overprofits. I am positively surprised to hear the chairman of our committee say that she has always been open to reducing VAT.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u11	Mr. Van Hees, you missed a few steps! You were never in the Committee on Energy when I was a minister. Do not imagine that the PTB is the pygmalion of the policy defended today by one or the other. You have contributed to this, but the role of the PTB should not be expanded.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u12	Far from me. It was the PTB that collected 300,000 signatures, not the MR. Under the Michel government, when you were a minister, the MR increased the VAT to 21%. I hear you're open to the proposal. We were two Members under the previous legislature and I had come from time to time to see you in the Committee on Energy. I note that you are demanding that the surplus generated by energy producers be used to finance this reduction in VAT. That is exactly what I said earlier in my speech. Finally, I would like to return to Mr Vanden Burre, who is defending a targeted measure, that is to say, to help the poor and the middle class. But if you add up the precarised public and the middle class, that makes the majority of the population. I still want to point out that 80 per cent of the population have a net income of not more than 2,000 euros per month. Even the 9th decile, the richest nine tenths, has an average income of 2,139 euros. These people are all targeted. Nine tenths of the population are severely affected by rising energy prices. It is for virtually the entire population that a measure is required, therefore not a targeted measure. We need a general measure. And to make the rich pay, there are the taxes of the millionaires, the contribution of the energy producers. There are ways to bring in money, but VAT is not a solution to tax the richest.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u13	Thank you for your answer, Minister. As you said, this debate is ongoing. These are proposals that you have made, as you have said yourself. On the government table is a whole series of proposals, which have also been made in connection with other types of measures. We're also potentially talking about cheques. Some families can therefore be targeted. As for the enlargement of the social tariff, it is important. Mr Verduyckt thought it was insufficient, but today it is still an impact on 20% of the population. Yes, we need to reach more segments of the population. I said it. But this tariff needs to be expanded over time and in the categories of people affected. That's clear. This will, in any case, consist of a series of measures that will respond to the current urgency. Indeed, we want measures that are as effective as possible, and to that end, they must be effectively targeted. I am not going to answer in detail to Mr Van Hees. We know the positions of environmentalists and communists in this regard. We really want to have a targeted measure that directly affects the families who need it, and it is not just the disadvantaged families. I said it. It is also a large part of the middle class. Yes, there is a need for solutions and targeted solutions. They are particularly on the table. Today, we must move towards a decision which, clearly, is moving towards a package, a panoply of measures. Indeed, only one measure will not be sufficient. They will have to be urgent and lasting. Of course, all ministers, particularly the Minister of Energy and the Minister of Finance, are counting on this. It goes without saying that we will follow this debate very carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. We should perhaps pay more attention to the fact that there are high prices throughout the discussion. That's the first problem. The second problem is who pays the bill, because it is a fact that someone has to pay the bill. Minister, I appreciate that you are examining different slopes and that you are applying the criteria of effectiveness and thoughtfulness. One must always think one step further. What are the derivative effects? What is sensible and sustainable? This is too important. In addition to the measures already taken, additional measures must be taken which are targeted, socially responsible and financially feasible. I think we should all refrain from profiling ourselves. After all, we all want smart taxes. There is little point in blackmailing this debate or holding a classic opposition discourse. This has little to do with the problem. My concern is always what we will do in the long term to ensure that there is sufficient supply to meet rising demand.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your very broad answer. It augurs for a start of a solution appropriate to the critical situation in which we are. First of all, I share with you the fact that we are in an exceptional circumstance, of which I do not know how long it will last: at least a few months. I am convinced that, unfortunately, we will not find prices in the energy markets for a long time, which are sufficiently low to return to the situation we had before these far-reaching increases. It's a first thing. So you are right to foresee what is to be expected. That's where I may be going to engage in dialogue with Mr. Van Hees. To the extent that a reduction in VAT can only be temporary, it is obvious that you need to look, alongside this, for sustainable measures that can be structural and permanent or, in any case, able to adapt in the future to the fluctuations of the market in the medium and long term. You do, and I thank you for that. That's really what we need to look for. Mr Van Hees, it is true that you have attended one or the other of our committee meetings. I don't blame you. I have always been open to the principle of a reduction in VAT but not in a structural way because we all know, as you – do not pretend to not know – that this decrease cannot be structural. That is what differentiates us. The former government, which was chaired by Mr Di Rupo, had decided on a temporary reduction in this VAT which, at the end of this time, had to be raised. That's why we had to do it. It is therefore clear that other more fundamental, targeted and nuanced measures need to be found. It would be interesting to hear from you on this point. I am thinking of sustainable, structural measures, bearing in mind that the reduction in VAT is necessarily only a one-off glamour. We must therefore also warn against this punctual glamour. That 15% on the bill may not even be enough to counter and stem the increase we are experiencing now. I see you're opining from the leader, so we agree. Minister, we look forward to your panel of measures. We are not the most impatient. Those who really are, quite rightly, it is all consumers who really need this structural assistance from the government, and to have that listening. I also hope that you will extend your know-how and your willingness to move forward with a dialogue with the Regions, as they could also participate in this great national effort.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u16	Minister, last weekend, via the Federal Participation and Investment Company (FPIM), the federal government took over 6% of the capital of Ageas, the largest insurer in Belgium. You noted that this transaction fits in with the FPIM's investment strategy, as the financial sector is one of our six strategic investment pillars. In the De Morning programme, you also said that the decision was taken because there was a danger that the interest would be taken over by others. Can you explain the strategic added value of the participation? What would be the real danger if the interest had fallen into other hands? Is that the main reason why they chose to invest in Ageas now? On what criteria was the decision taken by the FPIM? Is the assessment made by the FPIM affected by the renewed management agreement and investment strategy? If so, in what way? Stefaan Michielsen points out in De Tijd that the federal government is now a shareholder of three major insurers: Belfius Insurance, Ethias and Ageas. He claims that this threatens to create an uneven playing field with competing insurance groups that are entirely in private hands. How do you judge that theorem? How does the FPIM take into account this potential threat? The centralisation of holdings within the FPIM has been deployed. As the FPIM's balance sheet expands, it is important to strengthen the FPIM's accountability. I have a few questions about that. The management agreement between the government and the FPIM does not contain any guidance on the federal government's shareholder policy, in particular as regards the anchoring of strategic assets. Both the OECD and GUBERNA therefore recommend that an ownership policy be drawn up, a kind of shareholder policy that should include the long-term strategy of the government. This document should be adopted at political level following a public debate and after consultation of stakeholders concerned. Will you and the FPIM work on this? Finally, do you not think that the communication of the FPIM should better reflect its relative operational independence? The FPIM should actually communicate on this type of transaction itself rather than through the Minister of Finance. However, we have not heard from the chairman of the board of directors about this and today there is no information about this large transaction on the website of the FPIM. Do you also think that the FPIM should communicate more independently?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u17	Mr Vanbesien asked the questions in a broad context. What is the logic seen in a broad context? Isn't there a risk that there will be a preponderance of the financial balance in the relationship between the different strategic spearheads that exist? What is the ultimate motivation for this step? Is it a case that has been sought or was it offered rather and is it an opportunity? Then there is the question within the question, in particular about the FPIM's own communication line. Is there any independence to act in that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u18	As mentioned by colleagues, the Belgian State becomes the largest shareholder of Ageas, after the Chinese Fosun. In addition, I do have a few questions. First, in the financial press, it is suspected that it would be the acquisition of the shares of the Chinese group Ping An, which also has an exact 6,3% share package. Can the Minister confirm that? Secondly, you stated first that there was a risk of a foreign takeover, secondly that the transaction fits in with FPIM's investment strategy and thirdly that this is a smart anchoring of companies of strategic importance. What risk of takeover are we talking about? How big and how real was that risk? Can you give Parliament more information on this? After all, that is not insignificant. Thirdly, the participation of 6.3 % is indeed sufficient to block a buy-out bid, a so-called sqeeze-out, by avoiding that a particular buyer can acquire 95% of the shares and thus push out the other shareholders. However, a foreign takeover can also be stopped by a legal ban. For example, the German Government has legally prohibited the acquisition of the technology company IMST by a Chinese defence group for security reasons. Was that possibility considered? If not, why has that possibility never been investigated? The financial sector, to which Ageas belongs, is one of the six strategic spearheads of the FPIM, in addition to aviation, healthcare and scientific research, impact investments whatever that may mean, energy and public utility services and, finally, transport and mobility. Minister, what are the criteria for considering participations as strategic? In the specific case of Ageas, the majority of turnover and profits are realised abroad. Turnover and profits in their own country can therefore hardly be regarded as a strategic element in this dossier. Is there not also a task for Parliament to hold a debate on the strategic nature of public investment, for example, to define and review criteria that a dossier must meet in order to be considered strategic? When we look at the shares of the FPIM, it is striking that the share of the financial sector, such as Dexia's residual bank, Belfius, BNP Paribas, Ethias, and now Ageas, and in particular insurance, is becoming very large. Is a better distribution of risk and portfolio within the FPIM not on the agenda? How is this participation funded? Does this happen with the FPIM from cash or through the sale of other shares? Does the federal budget intervene in this case through participation or participation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u19	Madam Chair, Minister, colleagues have described the context in a comprehensive manner. So I will not repeat what has been said. In line with what Mr Vanbesien was asking, I wanted to go back to your statements. Minister, you said in the press that an investment of 6.3% of the state, via the SFPI, in the capital of Ageas, is made to anchor the group. I understand the question of employment, of course. These are criteria that I fully understand. I wanted to understand more broadly whether other criteria had been taken into account for this investment, which is important: criteria related to sustainability, social impact, environmental impact, each investment of the SFPI. Here, it's in an insurance company, but it could obviously be somewhere else. I would like to know what is also under discussion for other potential investments by the SFPI, which is now literally becoming the federal state's financial arm in terms of investments and in terms of managing public participation. That's a good thing. This is something that we have defended in the discussions to form this government. Minister, I wanted to see if you could explain in detail this 6.3% acquisition, but also take advantage of it to expand the whole investment, and therefore the next investment targets of the SFPI, that we can expect to see coming in the coming weeks and months.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to point out that the FPIM is still subject to a confidentiality clause, which makes it difficult to disclose much information about the selling party. That is until the official notification at the FSMA happens, after which we will of course find ourselves in a different situation. For what reasons have we made that purchase? At a shareholders' meeting in Ageas, the fact that the shareholdership there has been fragmented has always represented around 40% of the shares. This means that a party with 10% or more of the shares can weigh very strongly on the decision-making process. In the press, there were more and more reports and rumours about parties possibly preparing to take over Ageas. With the participation of the FPIM in the shareholdership, we can ensure that we continue to anchor that important stake in Belgium, as the FPIM holds more than 5% of the shares and is therefore a significant representative at the general meeting. Mr Vermeersch, as far as the legal framework is concerned, Europe does not allow a foreign takeover to be stopped unless there is a real threat of the takeover. The possible acquisition of the German IMST posed security risks to German citizens by the sensitive information that IMST faces. Since there was no real safety risk for the acquisition of Ageas, there was no legal prohibition in this regard. The FPIM's investment strategy was already explained and discussed in the Finance Committee on 23 September 2020, when I had not yet been appointed Minister of Finance. For this anchoring strategy, we will of course, in cooperation with the FPIM, apply a so-called smart anchoring approach that allows FPIM to anchor strategic Belgian assets efficiently, taking into account the resources available to FPIM. Strategic assets are defined as companies with potential to grow into important players in Belgium and emerging from the new economy, as well as companies that are considered to be of national interest to Belgium, for example because they relate to our national security, are of public interest to make our economy function properly or belong to a key sector that distinguishes the Belgian economy from abroad. The concentration of the financial sector is, of course, the result of the financial crisis in 2008. At that time, the federal government saved several institutions from bankruptcy by engaging in equity participations. Once all the shares are centralized in the FPIM balance sheet, the FPIM will of course also further analyse and try to mitigate the spread of risk and portfolio, taking into account the fact that it is a sovereign wealth fund and the strategic nature of each of those shares. Participation in Ageas is financed from the FPIM's own resources, without budget support. There were more and more rumours about foreign parties preparing an offer to buy for Ageas. We could have let the market play freely and then discovered that an important decision-making centre had moved abroad. AG Insurance is the country's largest insurer and one of the largest investors in the second and third pension pillars. The Belgian infrastructure – the government – strengthened the Federal Society of Participation and Investment (SFPI) last year to anchor these strategic assets in our country. Indeed, we want to anchor strategic companies in a smart way. We have taken into account employment, but also the important role that Ageas plays in the Belgian economy. Ageas employs 7,000 people and is the largest insurer in our country. Moreover, a significant part of the Belgian financial sector is already in foreign hands, such as BNP Paribas Fortis and ING, which increases the dependence of our economy on foreign decision-making centres. The FPIM does not deal with the daily policies of the institutions. It is bound by the rules and provisions of corporate governance regarding the avoidance of conflicts of interest. The same applies to any representatives designated by the FPIM in the institutions concerned. As a result, participations are independent in operational decisions and strategy. The FPIM is currently preparing an ownership policy, which indicates the direction of the government's long-term strategy. It will also be discussed in due course on the Board of Directors of the FPIM and the Government. The FPIM is free to communicate about the decisions it makes. The decision to participate in Ageas has been taken entirely autonomously. It is therefore up to them to communicate about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. We know that the importance of FPIM will increase considerably in the coming years. If all holdings are centralised and companies such as Proximus, Bpost and Belfius come under FPIM control, the portfolio managed by the company will increase from EUR 2 billion to EUR 20 billion. That's a huge responsibility. That is why I really insist on defining a shareholder policy, as recommended by the OECD. You say that the FPIM is working on this and that this will be discussed by the government. I hope that Parliament will be given more information on this so that we can provide guidance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u23	Minister, you have also read the newspaper articles, the government steps into Ageas and the investors step out of Ageas. With this operation, the Belgian government has certainly had little confidence in the markets, because the stock exchange rate got quite a tap after the FPIM entered. As far as the risks are concerned, you say it's rumors. I hope that we will not base our strategic stakes on rumours. You do not say what role Parliament will have in this. However, we consider it very important to be able to hold a debate in Parliament on the strategic nature of investment. We also need to be able to define clear criteria and assess in future what a dossier has to meet in order to be seen as strategic for the FPIM. You are right to say that we have a number of holdings that are a historical consequence of the banking crisis, but we also need to be able to say goodbye to a number of holdings. We had that calculated by the Federal Planning Office in response to the election campaign. We believe that there should be a debate in Parliament on which shares the government should hold and which should not. If market conditions are right, we must also be able to distance ourselves from a number of holdings. These resources can then be used for energy measures or debt disposal. We urgently need to have a debate on these possibilities in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u24	Minister, I will not reply further at this stage. We'll follow the file closely. I thank you already for these first elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u25	Since Mrs Reuter was absent, her question No 55021602C was not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u26	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u27	Mr Vermeersch, I refer to the committee meeting of 14 December 2021, in which I answered all your questions and those of other committee members.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u28	Mr President, it is a great pity that you do not go into the topical and urgent debate. You stated in committee in December that you would go further on the dossier in the context of the budgetary negotiations, i.e. in the spring budgetary control. We would have liked to have heard more about this. I understand from your discretion, which you also show when it comes to the VAT proposals or the cliquet system that is still not in place, that you still need to clear up in-house. No answer is also an answer, in particular that the government is not yet out, as is the case with many cases. I wish you every success and a good continuation of your internal work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u29	Minister, I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u30	Mr Vermeersch, the German coalition agreement states that the new German coalition wants to strengthen economic and monetary union and that the Stability and Growth Pact, the SGP, has proved its flexibility. For Germany, that pact should promote growth, ensure debt sustainability and stimulate climate-friendly investment. According to Germany, there should be room for public investment to enable the green and digital transition and to close the significant investment gap created after the 2008 financial crisis. In addition to investment, Germany also stresses the importance of necessary structural reforms. In order to make the green and digital transition a success, Germany also always stresses the importance of private investment, as the German Finance Minister reiterated at Ecofin yesterday, and of course also the important role that public investment can play as a catalyst. As always, Germany will, of course, play a crucial role in the debate on the reform of European budgetary rules. I will therefore maintain close contact with my new German colleague, just as I do with all my other European colleagues on this point, just because of the importance for both Europe and our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think that Germany clearly indicates which direction it wants to go and that means that everything there is more or less under control. It will depend mainly on the French elections now, because the winner of the French elections will determine how the axis of France-Germany, if it remains in place, will change the budgetary rules. If, as my party hopes, there is a serious change in the French administration, then it could be a bit of a mess in the negotiations on the budgetary rules. Germany is clearly under control, but France is still a great question mark. The latter will, in my view, determine the direction of European budgetary rules. I'm sure this will be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u32	Madam President, Minister, the EU Tax Observatory report, published at the end of 2021, on new forms of tax competition in the European Union brings us a European vision and a comparison between the different countries. This is interesting in the context where we are, during the preparation of a tax reform. Some organizations, including Oxfam, have made an initial analysis. In this report, we learn that corporate taxes have fallen from 35% to 21% since 1995 in the European Union and that the effective rate would be even lower through different mechanisms. In Belgium, the gap between the statutory tax rate and the preferential tax rate is particularly large. In the European Union, only a few countries have an even greater gap. This demonstrates an aggressive tax policy in Belgium, for the benefit of tax avoidance and optimisation through different mechanisms. The report also tells us that the overall tax contributions of multinational enterprises have remained stable over the last twenty-six years, while their profits have increased more than GDP over the same period. What are the causes of the erosion of the tax rate for these businesses? The EU Tax Observatory report identifies clear causes and points out some of Belgium's responsibilities in these mechanisms. According to the report, four tax regimes are considered responsible for the reduction of the effective corporate tax rate: R&D incentives, intellectual property, notional interests, tax rulings. However, over the period covered by the report, Belgium used all four. Belgium's role is particularly important on the issue of tax rulings: in 2016, it accounted for almost 50% of the rules declared to the European Union. At the level of intellectual property, Belgium offers one of the strongest preferential treatment. Minister, have you read this report? Do you share the findings on the erosion of the tax rate of multinationals and the responsibility of Belgium? In the context of the tax reform that you are preparing, this is the right time to question this report. Do you intend to review the four tax measures in Belgium, with a view to putting an end to our tax competition policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u33	Madam President, Mrs Cornet, I have read this report. My administration is currently conducting its analysis. I only partly agree with the findings of this report. It is true that the corporate tax rate has fallen everywhere. Belgium, with its open economy, has followed this trend. The Belgian company tax rate has been reduced to 25%. But that remains, however, higher than the average rate of 21% to which you referred. The study also focuses on the effective level of corporate taxation. However, this level is not only a function of the difference with the nominal rate, but also of the nominal rate itself. In the presence of a high nominal rate, the effective level of taxation may also be high, even if the difference is large. This is the case in France or Belgium. Conversely, a low nominal rate such as that applied in Hungary or Bulgaria results in a low effective level of taxation, even if the difference is small. The four tax measures linked to the difference between the nominal rate and the effective level of taxation are reflected in Belgian tax law. As for notional interests, the report shows that the Belgian scheme is less generous than similar schemes in other Member States of the European Union. The same applies to tax incentives for research and development. In this respect, Belgium is below the European average. Finally, in the field of intellectual property, our deduction for income from innovation certainly gives rise to a low tax but for a smaller range of income than in many other Member States. The measures have been developed within the existing international framework and have been examined in the light of it by the authorities. The government agreement provides that the government supports the revision of the code of conduct and advocates broadening the definition of harmful tax practice. Any changes to the international framework will be dealt with accordingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hope we agree that tax competition between Member States must be stopped. This is one of the recommendations of this report. We must put an end to the preferential system and, in any case, ensure that it does not fall below the minimum tax rate of 15% to which we are going. Exemptions should also be minimized as much as possible. I asked you today because, as I said, we are in a context of tax reform. In doing so, it is important to ask the right questions. You have eluded my last question about how you intend to review the various tax measures that are pointed out. I saw, this morning, the Corona Coalition that smoked your firm with fumigants to invite you to be transparent and to establish a dialogue as part of your work on this tax reform, with a view to greater tax justice. I hope that you have heard them and that this report will help you and will be taken into account when preparing for the reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u35	Minister, since 1 January, there has been a further reduction in registration fees for the purchase of a family home in Flanders. They now amount to 3%. For example, out of a property worth €350,000, the savings will be €10,500 for the purchaser. It is a very nice economy and it is very important at the moment for households. Last year, I asked you about your priorities in terms of access to property, especially for young people. It's a real problem. In Brussels and Wallonia, all young buyers find themselves at a disadvantage compared to young people in the Flemish Region. The former Budget Minister, Jean-Luc Cucke, in Wallonia, had announced quite a few measures to help the first purchasers, in particular the discount or the housing check, but for the moment - and we cannot go back to it - there is a significant gap between the different regions and this is a real problem in our country because we are still trying to find some harmonisation. Minister, I would like to have your opinion on this difference between the Regions, which I believe is abnormal. Are there any measures at the federal level, including tax measures that could harmonize all this? The Government Agreement provides for "measures to reduce the cost of acquiring real estate or to review the financing of a housing loan", in agreement with neighbouring sectors and countries. What's the status of this? Have discussions already begun? Have any progress been made?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u36	Madam President, Mrs Reuter, concerning the differences in access to property between the Regions, this matter has its legal and constitutional basis in the Special Act of 1989 which states that registration rights in transfers of immovable property are a regional tax. Therefore, it is not for the federal legislature to harmonise the different conditions for access to property. As I pointed out in an answer to a previous oral question, my administration is currently preparing a study on the various costs associated with the acquisition of real estate. I intend to ensure, within a reasonable period of time, greater transparency and a reduction in the costs associated with these transactions and the refinancing of a mortgage. However, this study relates only to federal taxes, fees and fees. The main registration rights, such as the right of sale and the right of mortgage, are not covered, nor are the notary fees that fall within the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answer that I already knew. Of course, registration fees are the responsibility of the Regions. My question went a little further than that. You're telling me that you're working on a tax on fees and fees, which is already very good. I hope that the ministers of the various regions will talk to each other. How, however, could we move towards harmonisation? This could be an initiative of the federal government even if registration fees are exclusively the responsibility of the Regions and even if notary fees are the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. A discussion and contacts between the different decision-makers could still help to reduce real inequalities in the same country, as is the case today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u38	Minister, this question is already dated. I'll update them with your permission. At the meeting of the Consultative Committee at the end of last year, it was finally decided to limit the number of persons per table to a maximum of six, to allow only seats at a table for the time being and to limit the opening hours from 5 p.m. to 11 p.m. Immediately after that meeting of the Consultation Committee, the three Catering Federations already consulted you, the Minister of Finance, on additional aid measures. Among other things, the federations advocated a temporary VAT reduction. Meanwhile, it has become clear that they were allowed to knock on their chins, if I may. The Catering Federations also put on the table a Catering Baxter Plan, a plan supported by calculations with ten concrete questions for government support, for example the extension of the crisis bridging right and temporary unemployment, but also a temporary VAT reduction and aid to the end-of-year premium. With your permission, Minister, I come to my questions. Firstly, you said that the discussion on energy bills often mentions that the temporary VAT reduction in the catering industry would have cost the Treasury about EUR 800 million. Can you confirm that number? Secondly, a temporary reduction in VAT, as I have already mentioned in previous questions, tends to give rise to permanent price increases. We see this everywhere in Europe, but also in our country. That is, of course, problematic. Do you keep an eye on such matters, as Minister of Finance? Is there a monitoring on that? Thirdly, to what extent did the government ultimately participate in the catering Baxter plan? Which of the ten specific questions were finally answered? What questions can be answered in the future, for this sector which has been particularly affected by the corona crisis and which is still subject to restrictions at the moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u39	Mr Vermeersch, on the one hand, the temporary reduction in the VAT rate for restaurants and catering services is an important measure for the catering sector, but on the other hand it has a significant negative impact on budgetary revenue. The introduction of such a VAT reduction even if it is only for a quarter of a quarter is a significant obstacle to public finances. Moreover, the catering industry remains free from closure under the current corona measures. On the basis of the information available, and taking into account, inter alia, the budgetary margins available, the government has therefore opted for other measures, which also provide other sectors with the necessary support during this corona crisis. The government will, of course, continue to monitor the situation of the catering sector very closely to support them with appropriate measures if necessary. The Catering Baxter Plan is a highly developed plan, with proposals to support the catering industry in response to the measures taken to combat the covid pandemic. The proposals put forward in this report also relate to the powers of colleagues. If you have any questions about this, I would ask you to address them. As regards the tax deduction of catering, event and reception costs at 100%, introduced by the Law of 15 July 2020, this measure was applicable until 31 December 2020. We did not renew or renew the measure afterwards. However, we have been working on an important new fiscal support measure. This concerns the tax credit for non-recoverable expenditure which supports companies that had to order certain events, as a result of measures to combat COOVID-19. A new optional regime will be proposed to transform deductible non-recoverable expenditure into a refundable tax credit. In this way, any liquidity problems encountered by event organisers will be mitigated. In addition, of course, we have taken a whole series of other measures. I am thinking, among other things, of the exemption from fees granted by the Regions, Communities, provinces or municipalities to the affected companies and extended until the end of March 2022. Of course, we have offered several tax concessions again to our citizens and businesses, as we have done in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u40	Minister, you say that the hospitality sector has remained open under the current measures. That is true, but there are important restrictions on, for example, the number of people per table or opening hours. As Deputy Prime Minister, you have a privileged position on the Consultation Committee. That is why I would like to call on you to decide on Friday's relaxations in the catering and events sector. We are all slowly agreeing that the current circumstances are beginning to allow it. If it is not possible, I believe that additional support measures are needed for this sector. Finally, out of concern for our consumers and since we are implementing several measures of VAT reductions, I would like to call on you to carry out a permanent monitoring to ensure that this temporary VAT reduction does not give rise to permanent price increases. These would be detrimental to both consumers and the catering industry themselves and all studies would indicate permanent price increases.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u41	Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u42	Mr Vermeersch, in your question you are referring to a tax big bang, following a leak in a French-language newspaper. I would ask you not to attach too much importance to the leak. As I have already explained through other channels, there is a reference to elements of fiscal measures, some of which were not even discussed in the academic working group. My administration informs me that the tax reform coordinator will produce a first report at the beginning of 2022. I assume that this report will be available during this first quarter of 2022. Of course, it is not the intention to hit the middle class. However, the aim is to reduce the burden on labour. That is the commitment of the tax reform. It is therefore clear that the working middle class must make progress. The government agreement explicitly provides for a shift in fiscal pressure and states that the measures should lead to a budgetary balance in the light of fiscal reform and have reasonable payback effects.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u43	Minister, you say that I do not have to worry about or attach too much importance to what you call a leak. But a leak like that doesn't just happen. We welcome the prospect of a comprehensive tax reform. You answer that we can expect the proposals this quarter. However, we must work with the information we get, which we find in the press, which we can collect. Despite your reassurance that I do not have to attach much importance to this, I have to note that the newspaper article lists very concrete measures. I'll list a few things. In the personal tax system there is a less rapid increase in the tax brackets, of which up to 60% would be taxed. We are very concerned about that. Furthermore, a number of capital taxes are proposed, such as a tax on real rental income of 30% and an added value tax on real estate of 25%. The tax advantage for pension savings, which Flemings in particular do, would be reduced. There would also be a new regime for long-term savings. In addition, the article refers to the limitation of the 80% rule on supplementary pension for selfemployed persons. As far as entrepreneurship is concerned, sole proprietorships would be taxed more heavily. Last but not least, in the context of the price increases we are constantly talking about in committee, there is an increase in VAT from 21% to 22%. That worries us very much, all the more so since it is brought by a respectable French-speaking economic newspaper. Minister, we are also listening very carefully. You confirmed it here today. There must be a tax shift for you, but no tax cuts. There we fundamentally disagree with you and your government. We believe that in the country with the highest taxes in the world there should be an effective tax reduction and not a tax shift.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u44	Ladies and gentlemen of the MR, I hope that you have also listened carefully: you will have a tax shift in the government, but no reduction in the tax rate. How can your party still look straight in the mirror if its members say one thing in the press but ultimately in the government support other plans and statements silently?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u45	Mr Cogolati, you are referring to reports on possible corruption. The Minister of Justice is responsible for the prosecution of this matter. Questions concerning development cooperation fall within the competence of my colleague, the Minister for Development Cooperation. At the same time, I will probably also answer a number of questions from Mrs Depoorter, who is not present. That's how I can give the combined answer. However, it is possible that notifications have been made to the CFI within the preventive part of the money laundering legislation. However, the CFI cannot disclose information about files or certain persons. The CTIF states that the Belgian financial sector is currently very aware of the risks associated with money laundering, in particular by politically exposed persons, and is well organised to deal with them. As the figures in the most recent CFI activity reports show, there are more and more reports and it transfers 10 to 15 files each year for serious evidence of money laundering resulting from corruption or embezzlement by persons performing public functions. CTIF collaborates with its foreign counterparts, including the Democratic Republic of the Congo, on the basis of cooperation agreements or on a case-by-case basis. The last two questions, which I suspect Mrs Depoorter has, are the responsibility of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u46	Minister, thank you for your answers. Of course, I will address my questions on development cooperation to the competent minister, as well as to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and those concerning prosecution of the prosecution to the Minister of Justice. The questions I asked you concerned the fight against tax fraud. It seems to me essential that what has been revealed through the "Congo Hold-Up" case, thanks to the articles published and which will still appear in the coming weeks, can be followed up with effect from the federal government. It is important to combat organised tax fraud and the avoidance of such funds effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u47	Minister, I refer again to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u48	Mr Vermeersch, I have indeed drawn up a proposal for the introduction of a negative cliquet system. I have also written out the draft royal decree. The government has discussed it for the first time. The proposal was not finally dealt with by the Council of Ministers because prices were beginning to fall again at that time. That is why I have always indicated that I will continue to monitor prices and that if prices are again above a certain level, I will, of course, not hesitate to put the proposal back on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u49	Minister, I cannot thank you for that answer. Not only has our energy bill increased, also a tanking has become significantly more expensive. The price of a refueling has now increased by 20 euros. At the request and initiative of the Flemish Interest, here in Parliament, you confirmed that you would intervene in the price at the pump. But ever since then, it has remained silent, deafeningly silent. We know why now. Until today, we have heard nothing about this proposal. I've called that a crook's trick before. The increase in the price at the pump means that many hundreds of millions of euros are disappearing in the state treasury. Our car is again, for the umpteenth time, the milk cow of the state treasury. Apparently, the driver can knock on his chin. The prices at the pump are still a third of diesel and petrol, the rest are costs and charges, excise duties and VAT. That is why we want an immediate stop on the increase in excise duties on diesel and petrol. As far as we are concerned, a refueling operation must remain feasible and affordable for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u50	Minister, we know that the problem of customs is important and that the movement of staff shakes the customs because of a shortage of staff. There is an overall staffing problem in the FPS Finances, we have already addressed this issue several times. It comes to our attention that last year, with a view to the negotiations on the budget and in particular the staff envelope of the various departments, the SPF Finance requested an increase in its envelope and, in order to do so, carried out a file showing that any recruitment to the SPF Finance pays much more than what it costs, since it helps to bring tax in more effectively. This is a reality which I have been repeating for a long time and which renders incomprehensible the systematic reductions of staff that have been applied for many years, reductions which you are continuing and even claiming, if one refers to your political orientation statement of 3 November 2020 calling for a FPS Finances "as thin as possible". Despite the FPS Finance case, the increase in the budget envelope was refused and new linear savings were imposed. In these circumstances, it is difficult to believe in the so-called ambitions to fight aggressively against major tax fraud. Do you confirm that the FPS Finance provided such a file to the government? Has it been given to you personally? Can we provide a copy of this file? How high was the demands of the FPS Finance regarding the staff envelope - in euros or in number of agents? What were the government's arguments against this increase in the envelope?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u51	Mr Vermeersch, Mr Van Hees, the communication to which you refer concerns the Control 5 department in Antwerp Linkeroever. This is a specialised service where the workload is high and is also difficult to reach due to the lack of public transport. Departure staff are replaced, but the specialisation of a caibureel limits the possibilities of additional recruitment and ensures that, more than in other services, new staff are not immediately available for self-employment. Although my administration is trying to avoid this as much as possible, there is no permanent presence of staff centralised at the border inspection post Linkeroever (GIP LO) from which the service is provided. The public authorities must carry out their tasks and obligations by means of the funds made available to them. As a function of this, staff who were permanently employed at certain cai offices are centralized at the GIP LO pending additional staff. After all, in implementation of the staff plan 2021, there are still 16 recruitments to be made for the Antwerp site and 14 more for the Beveren site. The establishment of the staff plan 2022 is currently under way, asking to update the analysis carried out by the AAD&A in relation to the performance of its tasks. The emergency procedure with regard to the inactivity of the scan tunnel at the border inspection post of Rightoever in Antwerp will certainly be included. Despite continuous efforts by the Personnel Service, the outstanding functions are not filled in. As regards the period mentioned, customs officials had to take up their remaining leave by the end of the year, while there is still the impact of covid and the same customs scanning services at the request of the public prosecutor have also been increased in the fight against drugs with the mobile x-ray scanners. Mr Van Hees, the note to which you refer is an administrative document among others in the preparatory work for the drawing up of the staff plan. In fact, my firm has been in contact with the administration regarding potential projections, even though no official documents have been prepared. It is a discussion and reflection document that was not and still is not intended to be discussed publicly. The administration's proposals had ranges, depending on the related objectives, of up to several hundred recruitments in the years 2022 to 2024. As indicated, this is a working paper that needs further refinement, which does not mean that it has not been useful. On the contrary, elements of this document were used when I took my decision, in the context of the budgetary conclave at the end of 2021, to grant additional appropriations in the context of the fight against tax fraud and in the context of transfer pricing. This represents EUR 4.85 million and 78 recruitments in 2022. These files, which were the ones that were introduced and defended, were accepted. With this kind of high-tech equipment such as the scanner, there can be technical problems that the customs operator of service cannot of course solve on his own. For the period mentioned, it was a problem with a sensor that caused an electronic communication failure in which the scanning system was in alarm setting. Periodic preventive maintenance and the resolution of technical failures is contained in public contracts with strict service level agreements and fine clauses that are closely followed. For example, the aforementioned problem was resolved fairly quickly, within two hours. However, my administration does not have a quantified economic impact of the temporary inactivity of its scanning equipment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u52	Minister, we are very concerned. Last summer, customs personnel carried out actions to address the serious shortage of staff at customs. Today, however, it appears that this problem is greater than ever and that permanent customs offices are necessarily closed. In my second question I gave an example of some of the crowded alarms. It is only a grasp of the inactivity of the scanning equipment on right bank due to organizational reasons, technical problems and circumstances. I can confirm today that this is not an arbitrary example. At the moment there is again a busy alert for physical checks on left bank. At the moment it is warned that the scanner on right bank is not operational again on Friday 21 January for organisational reasons. That day, there's some kind of emergency procedure. So the problem is not temporary, because it is becoming a permanent and structural problem. Where customs personnel used to do their job to express their displeasure, the work is now simply often shut down and offices are closed because there is simply no staff left to do the job. Such action by the trade unions is temporary, while the staff shortage could be long-term. There is therefore an urgent need for action on the part of the customs authorities. There is an urgent need for additional staff, so there is an urgent need for more people, resources and powers for our customs. We will repeat this view often enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u53	Minister, thank you for your answers. With the example of customs, there is a shortage of staggering staff in the FPS Finances. This poses concrete and serious problems. With regard to this file provided to you by the FPS Finances, I understand that it is not intended to be published. So you refuse my request to provide it to us. That was a pity because the factual elements contained in it had to be very interesting. I take note of your refusal. There was a fork in the applications but you say it could reach several hundred recruits. Here, we are far from the account as you quote some agents that you add to the "transfer price" cell. Overall, we do not reach several hundred more. We have fewer staff in the FPS Finances and that's a problem. Minister, it seems to me that you are not really in line with your administration, even if it is run by someone who has the reputation of having the same label as you. I feel you're not really in line with the FPS Finance requests. I find this disturbing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u54	Mr Minister, the Council of European Finance Ministers (Ecofin) has allowed the reduced VAT for demolition-reconstruction to be extended. This allows Member States, in particular Belgium, to apply reduced rates to a range of goods and services. In response to the economic crisis of the Covid-19, VAT reduced to 6% was applied to demolition-reconstruction for 2021 and 2022 for the whole Belgian territory. Specifically, this measure taken by the FPS Finance runs for the period from January 1, 2021 to December 31, 2022. The extension beyond 2022 by the European Union is especially positive for Wallonia, since it plays a major role in the reconstruction of the areas affected by last summer's floods. In addition, the extension provides greater clarity and legal certainty for those affected. Minister, are you aware of the exact expiry date of this extension granted by the European Union? Will it be possible to extend again the measure taken by the European Union after its expiry? Does Belgium intend to apply this new EU measure to other goods and services? According to the Annexes to Directive 2006/112, a maximum of 24 points may be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u55	Mr Minister, the reduced VAT rate of 6% for the demolition of buildings and the reconstruction of houses was introduced on 1 January 2021 for a period of two years. If a number of conditions are taken into account, this is a tax incentive for many Belgians with a brick in their stomach. In addition to the tax incentive, this measure also has major ecological benefits. For example, part of our decayed, outdated or little isolated residential heritage will be accelerated. The VAT reduction will be discontinued on 1 January 2023. People who buy or build homes have questions about a possible extension for two reasons. Firstly, there is a delay in the construction market because people find it difficult to find a contractor. Secondly, increasing the prices of materials and the scarcity of materials means that the budget is exceeded. Minister, will the VAT reduction stop on 31 December 2022? Does the government have plans to extend them? What happens to construction projects that start in 2022 but continue in 2023? Are there any transitional measures under consideration?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u56	On 7 December 2021, the European Council of Finance Ministers reached agreement on the proposal for a Directive reforming the European rules on VAT rates. The new rules take into account the changing needs of Member States and the changing policy objectives of the European Union. They also ensure greater flexibility for Member States in applying reduced VAT rates. I would remind you, however, that this proposal for a directive is currently before the European Parliament for its opinion. It is only at the end of this procedure that the Council will formally adopt this proposal, which is why this future directive will not enter into force for a few months. The new European tariff rules will indeed provide a basis for the current Belgian measure which provides for a reduced VAT rate of 6% for transactions relating to the demolition and reconstruction of a dwelling. However, I would like to point out that this measure is compatible with the current rules of the VAT Directive on tariffs, as the Council of State also pointed out when the draft programme law which introduced this provision was submitted to him for advice. In any event, both in the current wording and after the entry into force of the reform of the tariff provisions, the VAT Directive provides a framework within which Member States may apply one or more VAT rates but not to certain categories of transactions laid down in the VAT Directive. Thus, this reform of the VAT Directive on reduced VAT rates does not entail an extension of the Belgian measure by means of a European regulation. On the other hand, it amends the permanent legal framework at European level that this measure already met and will continue to comply with after the amendment. With regard to the government's general rate policy, this new European legal framework will allow Belgium as well as the other Member States greater flexibility in applying reduced rates. Such policies must, however, focus on the real needs in this area and take into account the difficult fiscal framework that our country has been experiencing for a long time. The VAT reduction from 21% to 6% for demolition and reconstruction was set up about a year ago as a re-launch measure, with three concrete objectives, namely to support the purchasing power of our families, to boost the replacement of obsolete and energy-consuming homes and to support the construction sector in crisis time. In addition, this measure is also very important for the regions of our country where many private homes suffered enormous, sometimes irreparable damage as a result of the exceptional weather conditions last summer. The recovery measure is still running until the end of 2022, but, in my view, an extension is necessary. In the years to come we will have to face a major challenge: to accelerate the process of durabilization of our aging housing stock. An extension would also make it more affordable for families to exchange an old home for a new, sustainable home. In addition, I am aware that the number of construction projects that are being launched today or that will be launched in the near future will exceed 2022. Families and promoters therefore need clarity and legal certainty quickly. I will therefore propose the extension of this measure to the government at the appropriate time. I can still inform you that 20 days after the publication of the new text of Annex 3 in the Official Journal of the EU, the law of 13 April 2019 establishing a reduced VAT rate for the purchase of bicycles and electric bicycles will enter into force.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u57	Minister, thank you for this very important information. First of all, I welcome the possibility of this extension. Indeed, in your answer, I detect the will to work on it. It is pointless to tell you, Minister, that I am fully convinced that this measure, initially envisaged as a stimulus solution – as you rightly pointed out – will have to be maintained in its usefulness. I have already given you some motivations in my question, particularly in view of the health situation we continue to experience, but also of certain events that occurred last summer, namely the floods. So I'm waiting for the rest. Together with my colleague Tim Vandenput, I will see what initiatives we can already take on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. I am pleased to hear that you are also convinced that an extension is needed for various reasons, of which ecology is one. The current scarcity in the market of both materials and workers to carry out the works results in delays in billing. If there is no extension, it is very likely that people who are counting on getting their building fully finished and invoiced by the end of 2022 will see it move to 2023, which means that they will have to pay the rest of their invoices under the 21% VAT scheme. It would also be likely that they would agree with the contractor for tax reasons to prepare the invoices in advance for non-executed works. I wouldn't want to put the owners in that position, even if that might be their choice. For large projects, the Breyne law for billing exists according to implementation. These are all proposals or initiatives that we need to look at in a pragmatic way. I am very glad that you are in favour of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u59	Questions Nos 5502322C and 55023329C by Gilles Vanden Burre are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u60	Mr Minister, on Wednesday 8 December, the Brussels Labour Court ruled in the Deliveroo case. It has actually been said that the bicycle couriers are self-employed and that the tax P2P status, including 85% of the bicycle couriers, can no longer apply because the condition of that tax favor is not respected by the platform. It is not the first time that this has been unclear. You may recall that the FPS Finance in 2019 for a long time told Deliveroo's bicycle couriers that they could not benefit from the measure, because it was not about services between individuals. They were therefore outside the scope of the legislation. Eventually, the FPS Finance decided in September 2019 that the bike couriers of the platforms should be allowed to use the statute, but that it should be effective about performance between individuals. The couriers were therefore delayed for the declaration of their income in that context. Have you already taken note of the ruling of the Labour Court and what is your opinion on the P2P Statute? In the meantime, I know that the Labour Auditorate has appealed against the judgment. It does not therefore have a general application, but it is important that we know what your intentions are in this area, so that the status of bicycle couriers does not depend on judgments of judges, who may be quite different in this respect. Has the FPS Finance also taken note of the ruling of the Labour Court and what is its analysis? Will the FPS change its position? How does the FOD react to the bike couriers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u61	Mrs Vanrobaeys, my administration is currently examining the consequences of the ruling of the labour court. The published instructions stipulate that, when the limit is exceeded, the income from the collaborative economy is classified as professional income, but the analysis of the results is still ongoing. However, it is important to note that my administration is not a party to the trial and that, moreover, the time limits for appeal have not yet expired. There is therefore no intention at the moment to take a decision on the outcome of the judgment to amend the tax legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u62	Minister, I look forward to that analysis, including on the consequences of exceeding the income threshold. After all, I have already asked you written questions on this because it appears that there is very little control of the income threshold. I think that is an important first step and I intend to take initiatives on this. There is now an appeal from the Labour Auditorate, but the bike couriers need to be given security. The statements now go in all directions. The bicycle couriers may be employees or self-employed under the employment relationship law, whereas according to the P2P statute they are self-employed who, if they meet the conditions, are exempt from tax and social security contributions. There is also the European Commission's initiative, which talks about a rebuttable presumption of worker status until proven otherwise. We must not leave the people who work for such platforms in that uncertainty. I therefore call on the government to sit together and coordinate with each other, and above all to put an end to the abuses that sometimes occur now about exceeding the ceiling and working with minors and people without papers. We need to make final legislation so that the bike messengers can count on security and good social protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u63	Mr Piedboeuf, a reminder letter was sent to some citizens who had already fulfilled their obligation. These are citizens whose declaration has been sent by post and whose file has not yet been processed or citizens whose declaration has been received in the meantime. The reminder letter stated that it should not be taken into account in the event that the declaration had already been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u64	That's perfect! Thank you very much, Minister. So you confirm. I wish you a good end of the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u65	Mr Vermeersch, as I explained in plenary, the fight against tax and social fraud has always been a top priority for this government. Anyone who is dealing with the fight against fraud at close range or far away is of course aware that every link in the fight against fraud is equally important. That is both about the tax administration, the tax administration, the court, the justice system and the police. And that is what our government's policy is based on in terms of the way in which the Federal Police National Security Plan is drawn up. That was also clarified in plenary. In the meantime, reports on the cessation of the fight against tax fraud have also been discussed within the government. The previous National Security Plan indeed included social and tax fraud, which included certain objectives, including cooperation in dealing with tax fraud in the files to be submitted to the federal judicial police, in application of the una through consultation. The new draft National Security Plan, on the basis of which the report was issued, qualifies the concept of 'fiscal fraud' among the Ecofin phenomena, which are the economic and financial phenomena, and also provides for cooperation with various chain partners, which are responsible for tax fraud, not only policy-making within the College for the fight against tax and social fraud, but also operational within the joint investigation teams, the so-called MOTEMs, for which a draft law will also be submitted in the short term. The draft plan therefore takes into account this enhanced cooperation as a result of the action plan we drew up in the College. Your response to the press report shows that you attach particular importance to the fight against fraud. That reflex was included in the discussion of the National Security Plan so that your doubts would get an answer. I would also like to point out that it is clear that this fight against tax fraud was, and remains, a priority for the federal police. I am now speaking from experience as chairman of the College for the fight against social and fiscal fraud. I can only agree that the College is pursuing that priority. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the representative of the federal judicial police in that College, but also his staff, for their active contribution in this matter. It is with this effort, but also with other efforts that we will make in the short term through a second action plan, which is much more focused on international fraud, that we will support our objectives in the fight against tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u66	You speak clearly, Minister, and we appreciate that in the Flemish interest. What remains unclear, however, is the calculation of all your fraud plans. We've questioned you on several occasions about that. You have already proposed 29 points that have not yet been quantified, or at least we have never seen that figure. We will continue to follow closely the evolution of this government's anti-fraud approach, because this year alone, EUR 400 million will have to be added to the state budget. Next year it will be EUR 700 million and even EUR 1 billion in 2024, on top of what is already being done. We continue to ask ourselves whether this is realistic. You speak clear and correct language, but hopefully you will also come up with clear figures, in such a way that we can test your ambitions against your achievements. We're looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u67	This year we have also read the publication Revenue Statistics with great interest. The results for Belgium are based on national accounts, but follow the OECD methodology for classification. The publication shows that the capital tax amounted to 3.4 % of GDP at the end of 2018 and at the end of 2019, where it amounted to 3.1 % in 2010. However, the same publication also makes it clear that the overall tax burden in relation to GDP fell from 43.9 % in 2018 to 42.7 % in 2019. This decline is entirely due to the federal level. So there is certainly no ambition to make Belgium the most burdened country in the EU, the opposite is evident from the figures. Moreover, the publication shows that the federal government's share of capital taxes is only 0.5 percent of GDP. The main taxes on capital are indeed at the regional and local level, amounting to 2.9 % of GDP. The main taxes within this framework are the property tax as well as the registration and inheritance tax. The OECD is already in favour of property tax and also recommends that its members increase the share of these taxes. It is also explicitly stated in the Preview of the Opinion of the High Council of Finance of May 2021 that "a shift to periodic taxes on real estate assets, in particular residential ones, appears to be relatively beneficial for economic growth'. However, the OECD is a cool lover of transaction taxes such as registration fees. This can certainly be reflected further. You also know that these matters are largely a matter for the regions. You should also take into account that taxes on rental income and on capital gains are not included in the OECD classification in the taxes on capital, but in the category of taxes on income and capital gains. It has therefore fallen according to the same OECD statistics, measured in relation to GDP. When you ask me about the scope of the tax reform, I can only repeat that it is the absolute duty to reduce the burden on labour. The question of whether, and to what extent, this can also have an impact on the taxation of capital income must, of course, be examined further. However, it is clear to me that the principle of neutrality must be taken as the principle of neutrality, as laid down in the coalition agreement. Furthermore, it is not because neutrality is restored in the taxable base that this also leads to a tax increase. As far as the so-called proposals of the expert group are concerned, I can only see what I have already said. It appears to be a mediatized leak which was also extremely fragmentary. I propose that we hold the debate on the expert report as soon as it is presented, so that we can take note of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. If the report proves anything, then it is that the capital tax in this country has increased by five billion in ten years. Belgium is the third country of the European Union in terms of the highest taxes on capital, after Luxembourg and France. As you said in one of your answers, there will be no tax reduction but a tax shift. That's the big risk of the tax shift. After all, what do we see in this country over and over again? Every budgetary control, every programme law, and every single one of the provisions that passes through here, raises taxes sneakingly. Think, for example, of temporarily not applying the indexation of tax deductions and the like by this government. That's a devious tax increase! As a result, we see that there is no net tax shift under this government, but a tax increase. This is particularly problematic in a country with almost the highest taxation in the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u69	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u70	Mr Minister, yesterday I asked my questions to the Minister for Mobility and he referred me to you. We keep talking about the flight tax, but we still don't know exactly what it means. For this, you had entered EUR 30 million in the 2022 budget and EUR 40 million in revenue from 2023. The flight tax would be between 2 and 10 euros. We believe that this is an antisocial proposal for two reasons. There is no alternative, and it affects most of the ordinary people. Just to get to the airport, we pay the Diabolotaks. If I travel from Brussels to Brussels Airport by train, I pay 18 euros back and forth. That's a lot of money. It is said that the most important thing is to invest in alternatives to the aircraft, but then the tax is certainly not a good idea. Has the flight tax taken shape in the meantime? Can you explain that? What about the cargo flights? That is not clear at all. Will the flight tax also apply to private jets?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u71	Colleagues, the boarding tax is being shaped in the preliminary draft Tax Shift Act, which will reduce the burden on labour. The proposal on this subject is discussed in the government together with the rest of the legislative text relating to the tax shift. Following its adoption in the Council of Ministers, the draft will go through the normal legislative process, including the referral for advice to the Council of State. The intention is to bring the law into force at the beginning of April 2022. We will be able to discuss the tax in detail once the draft law is discussed in committee and put to the vote. I can confirm that the proposal drafted by my policy cell and administration does indeed involve a tax of between EUR 2 and 10 and that long distances would also be covered by the flight tax. The charge would only apply to passenger flights and private jets. As far as the other arrangements for the levy are concerned, I would ask you to await the discussion of the draft law. Mrs. Vindevoghel, you are asking for alternatives. For short flights, the train is the alternative means of transport with the smallest CO2 footprint. SNCB offers numerous international connections from its stations in Brussels. These are therefore sustainable alternatives to short-haul air travel.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u72	Minister, your answer is, of course, very brief. You also frame the tax in the mini-taxshift. This indicates that the flight tax is yet another new tax on the government. The only thing that was clear when the measure was presented in October was how many millions of dollars the State Treasury would have to pay for the measure. Meanwhile, the rule was changed: 500 kilometers away became 750 kilometers away and the tax also takes on long-distance flights, just so that the picture would be right for the state treasury. It is not just another new tax, it is also a plague tax. After the payment of his gas bill, his electricity bill, the price at the pump and his tax bill finally succeeds in vacationing in the summer, the purple-green government will soon be able to pay extra via a flight tax. That is absolutely outrageous. It is not only a new tax, it is not only a new pest tax, it is also an anti-Flemish measure, because the measure will mainly affect the Flemish airport of Zaventem and to a much lesser extent or almost not the airport of Charleroi. That is, of course, unfair discrimination. For the umpteenth time, it is clear that under the Vivaldi government, the Fleming in particular must close the hole in the state treasury and, above all, the Fleming must cough up the new taxes. It is impossible to approve the Flemish interest, which defends the Flemish interests.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u73	Minister, a while ago we requested the figures on private flights from the Minister for Mobility. In 2019 there were 48,000. This year, they're about good for one in eight. For someone who has a lot of money, 8 euros is not much, but for someone who has little money, has a low income and wants to go on a trip to Spain, that is a lot of money. We call the flight tax a flat, antisocial tax. We therefore propose that you pay only the private jets and not the ordinary workers. You're talking about alternatives. But today there are no alternatives. There are still no international connections. There are still no trains to different regions in Europe at the airport. As long as there's no alternative, you can't burden ordinary people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u74	Mr Vermeersch, I repeat what I said just now about the directive on reduced VAT rates. For certain categories of goods and services, including foodstuffs, the new Directive will effectively allow for a reduced rate below the minimum rate of 5%. However, the Directive has not yet entered into force, pending an opinion of the European Parliament. The Directive is expected to be published in the Official Journal of the European Union in April 2022. As you know, VAT rates are part of the debate on a global tax reform. In this context, it will of course also be assessed whether and to what extent the new possibilities offered by the future provisions on reduced VAT rates will be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u75	After your reply, Minister, I can only call on you to do something about this effectively. Let us move towards a VAT rate of 0 % on fruit and vegetables. As Minister of Finance, you undoubtedly looked at the inflation rates at the end of last year. The year 2021 was completed with some very remarkable figures, which should wake you up to everyone in Parliament and certainly you. In December, inflation in the European Union peaked at 5%, an absolute record. For example, food prices jumped 4.6 % higher, following a previous increase of 1.9 % in November. A VAT rate of 0% on fruit and vegetables should therefore be considered in the context of rising prices, not only of gas and electricity, but also at the pump and in the shops. There the government can meet a real need, also in the context of healthy food, which is also an ambition of the government. After all, it is about fruit and vegetables. I see Ecolo-Green among other things in the government, so healthy food could certainly be a government priority by introducing a VAT rate of 0% on fruit and vegetables.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u76	Provisions on the obligation to provide electronic means of payment will be introduced into the Code of Economic Law and will apply to companies. According to the applicable definition of "undertaking," the provisions will also apply to the liberal professions. For more detailed clarification, please refer to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Dermagne. Various studies, as well as the Court of Auditors, mention the promotion of electronic payments as a very efficient measure in the fight against fraud. The Financial Information Processing Cell also mentions the increasing use of cash in money laundering and the use of cash intensive trading companies as risk indicators. Although this is a simple measure, the impact may be large. After all, it will make it difficult for crooked companies to organise a fraud system through the use of cash. Given the traceability of an electronic payment, another payment certificate on top of the medical certificate does not seem appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u77	Thank you for your answer. I totally agree that electronic payment is a very effective dam against black money. I am pleased to hear that the possibility to pay electronically also applies to liberal professions. I will continue to question Minister Dermagne about this. The phenomenon of cash payments in doctoral practice still exists on a large scale and, as mentioned in my question, it sometimes turns out to be abused to ask for more money from the patient than allowed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u78	Madam President, I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u79	Mr Vandenbroucke, the Royal Decree determining the data to be included in the certificate was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 31 December 2021. The new model attestation shall be established on the basis of that Royal Decree. The publication of this model attestation and its guidelines will soon take the form of a notice in the Belgian Official Journal. For the sake of completeness, I would point out that for the reception activities organised in 2021, it will be accepted that the usual attestation will continue to be used. These activities are therefore not yet subject to mandatory use of the new model attestation and no mandatory electronic transmission to the administration. My administration has collected and processed the various questions and concerns about the data to be included in the new certificate in a series of frequently asked questions. Those FAQs will soon be available on the fisconetplus.be website. In addition, in the application of Belcotax-on-web, specific information is already available under the technical documentation section.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u80	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is good that you have provided that clarification on 2021. Your administration has responded to the remarks made by the youth sector. We look forward to the rapid publication of the new certificates, so that everyone can work with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u81	Indeed, the European Commission is to repay the funds it raises on the financial markets in the context of the financing of the NextGenerationEU funds on the basis of the proceeds of new own resources. The three sources of own income to which you refer are not the only ones to which the Commission is aiming. The new own resources decision of 14 December 2020 already created a new revenue source, with a tax on non-recycled packaging waste in plastic. At the end of 2023, the second package of proposals is expected, which will build on the Commission Communication of 18 May 2021 on Business Taxation for the 21st century. This package may contain proposals on the financial transaction tax. Given that the debate on own resources is still ongoing, it is premature to speculate on scenarios where Member States should contribute extra. Using new revenues from emissions trading as own resources for the EU is in line with the government agreement, which states that Belgium fully supports the Paris climate ambitions and the European Green Deal. By increasing the EU's own revenues, for example through the TTS system and the carbon border adjustment tax, the EU will be able to realise its economic and geopolitical ambitions and will also be able to counter a number of harmful practices. The CBAM proposal, or carbon border adjustment mechanism, is in accordance with the coalition agreement. The architecture and modality of this new mechanism and the preferred approach are discussed in the CBAM working group in which Belgium participates constructively. The next meeting of the Belgian working group will take place this month following the first European consultations in the ad hoc CBAM group under the French Presidency. The third proposal identifies 15% of the proceeds of the OECD Pillar 1 tax as a national contribution of Member States to the EU budget. This proposal replaces the EU digital levy, which was put on hold because it did not provide sufficient legal certainty, especially when taking into account the OECD Pillar 1 ban on introducing similar taxes. It is therefore a step in the right direction. Since the details of the new tax still need to be worked out at OECD/G20 level, it is not yet possible to make a reliable assessment of the revenue from that tax for Belgium. Only as soon as possible will Belgium determine its position in this dossier. The Commission's proposal is also in line with what is contained in the government agreement, in particular to allow the Union to generate its own revenue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u82	Minister, I understand from your reply that at the moment you are mainly focusing on new own resources. This will, of course, make Europe a superstate that can collect its own taxes. The three sources of revenue mentioned in our question are simply the three sources of revenue proposed by the European Commission itself in its press release of 22 December 2021. This is therefore extremely problematic for us. You mention the example of the plastic tax, which is already a new own resource today. You know that there is a Community tension on that at the moment. It will therefore be particularly difficult in Belgium to identify such taxes, which are now on the table, at Community level. Take the plastic tax. For this, the Flemish and federal levels assign responsibility to each other. Currently, the plastic tax has to be paid to Europe from the federal budget, although recycling is a regional competence. So the question arises as to how things will crystallise in the future. It is quite clear that the fact that Europe can now make its own debts also means that Europe will not only make its own debts for the first time, but will also collect new additional taxes for the first time. This is a disastrous development, which we will certainly not welcome in the coming period. We have always warned against this during the debate on the own resources decision. Unfortunately, those warnings prove to be true. So we are anxiously looking at the evolution of the dossier in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u83	Madam President, I would also like to refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u84	Mr Vermeersch, you have already asked a written question on this matter. The answer to that was also simple. The preliminary draft law on the reduction of labour charges is currently under discussion in the government. I will be delighted to present the approved scenario to the Finance Committee as soon as it is submitted to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u85	Mr Minister, I had indeed received your written reply, but that was exactly the same as the answer you are now reading. Of course, I'm not into that. This is problematic, because, for example, in the newspaper De Tijd, there are six scenarios, which I have not seen in my capacity as a Member of Parliament, which I would like to see and which I would like to assess, discuss and discuss with you. However, none of this is possible if we do not get the information. It is a problem that the press has different information than Parliament. Apparently, the press is a more important mouthpiece. We in this House should be able to discuss such important decisions among Members of this House. After all, we are talking about a non-important measure. You know that yourself. You like to unpack with it. So it would also be a good thing if we could discuss these scenarios here. I shall then wait patiently for the proposals to be put forward here in Parliament. Let it be clear, however, that you are not answering my question as to whether the deadline is still feasible. You have stated that the mini-tax shift should start from 1 April 2022. I wonder if that is possible at all at the moment, because we are already well advanced in January. These are questions that Parliament can ask, and that is information that you can give us. It is therefore problematic that you do not even answer that question. This is important, also in the light of fiscal clarity for everyone in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u86	Minister, Humo magazine interviewed the whistleblower Bradley Birkenfeld, former fortune manager at UBS, who would have allowed the US Treasury to recover $16.7 billion or the French tax authorities to get hold of 4.5 billion euros. As a reminder, in Belgium UBS obtained a criminal transaction in November 2021 allowing it to escape a trial by paying just 50 million euros. Living in Malta today, Mr Birkenfeld offered to the Belgian tax authorities 200 files on offshore accounts held by Belgians in tax havens, in exchange for a Belgian passport. The IRS refused his offer. On the one hand, considering that Birkenfeld's information is "not spectacular". On the other hand, by stating that the FPS Finances does not have the power to grant Belgian nationality to a foreign person. Yet, says Humo, "we know it's possible for football players who urgently need to play for the national team or for police, justice or state security informants." The then Minister of Finance, Alexander De Croo, had indicated through his spokesperson that he had never been approached about this issue. Minister, have you been approached on this matter, either by Mr Birkenfeld or his representatives, or by the administration? If so, when and by whom? And what was your attitude? Do you not think it would be a mistake to do without this mass of information, even if some do not find it spectacular? Do you not consider that granting Belgian nationality to Mr Birkenfeld would be little in terms of the information he can provide? If nationality can be granted for football players, why wouldn't it be granted for a whistleblower?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u87	Mr Van Hees, in July 2019, my administration was approached by a lawyer's office mandated by Mr Birkenfeld, with the aim of communicating information under certain conditions, which could not be met. Furthermore, after analysis by the external services of the ISI, it was reported that the information provided as a sample by Mr. Birkenfeld did not provide anything new in relation to the information already in the possession of the tax administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u88	Minister, I take note of your answer. "Nothing spectacular" in Humo; "nothing new" here, as if the added value of this information was zero. I note that this was a sample, so not the data set. I am surprised that this proposal has been treated so lightly. I do not know, of course, the content of this proposal, but this attitude seems to me to be somewhat light, especially since the price to be paid was not very high, since it was simply a question of granting Belgian nationality to someone who did not require any remuneration to transmit this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u89	Minister, Minister Petra De Sutter had been questioned in the plenary of the House on December 2nd about the fact that Proximus was considering a stock market entry for its subsidiary TeleSign through a merger with North Atlantic Acquisition Corporation (NAAC), a PSPC, that is, an empty shell used to raise funds. The company was registered in the Cayman Islands, a well-known tax haven. The minister replied: "I can inform you that there is no question - and I am very firm in this regard - that Proximus should use this PSPC, whose head office is located in the Cayman Islands, to bring TeleSign into the stock market. Like you, I am convinced that this would be unacceptable for a Belgian public company. You know that the board of directors is busy discussing it. In any case, I repeat, it is out of the question that Proximus will organize a merger with a PSPC located in a tax haven." What about today? In a statement from Proximus dated December 16, 2021, it is stated that "the transaction was approved by the boards of TeleSign, the Proximus Group and NAAC. The PSPC in question should be carried out in the second quarter of 2022 (...) Under the agreement, NAAC agreed to relocate its headquarters to the United States (Delaware)". So, NAAC agrees to leave a notorious tax haven, the Cayman Islands, for another notorious tax haven, Delaware. It's still shocking enough as news. Mr. Minister of Finance, as a minister responsible for combating tax fraud, do you find it acceptable for public companies to use a tax haven in this way? What information is Belgian tax likely to obtain about a company registered in Delaware?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u90	Mr Van Hees, as far as the matter is concerned, I would refer you to Minister De Sutter. As you know, our tax legislation already contains provisions for countries with a particularly favourable tax system. This international subject should first be dealt with at the global level, so that a level playing field is created. For this reason, the government also supports the initiatives of the OECD, Pillar II and the European Commission to introduce a minimum tax. The Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation between Belgium and the United States of America provides for the exchange of information and administrative assistance on the basis of which information under the international reference standard may be requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u91	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear you're using the ongoing reforms to better tax multinationals. I conclude that you find that in this case there is an essential problem of non-taxation or insufficient taxation. I also had a specific question about whether the Belgian tax authorities could obtain this information from Delaware. I understand that it is a State of the United States and that there is a convention between the latter and Belgium. My question was whether there were any particular difficulties in obtaining information when a company was registered in that state, which is known as a tax haven where many multinationals thrive. I believe that half of the major multinationals in the United States are registered there. That was the meaning of my question. I would have preferred to have more specific details about Delaware.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u92	Madam President, Minister, one of the major projects announced by the federal government is a major tax reform that has been entrusted to you. Your policy note of 29 October 2021 states in this regard: "In 2022, a draft of this broader tax reform will be proposed within the government." However, when one sees the difficulties of this Vivaldi coalition, even if only to develop the "mini tax shift", it is said that the great reform will not be simple, if it takes place one day. In fact, Paul Magnette, president of the PS, told the weekly Le Vif-L的Express "that there will be no tax reform". He explains: "The government agreement states that there will be no tax reform. He says we'll prepare a tax reform. When we say we're going to prepare, we're not going to. Now, we can always do more than what's in the government agreement." Minister, are you going to carry out a tax reform under this legislature or are you going to prepare a tax reform? It's obviously not the same thing. Will the project that you will hand over to the government in 2022 be a clean wave or will it be a successful, comprehensive and precise project, even if it is amended by the government? Or will you just give a few leads to prepare for tax reform? The government agreement states that this tax reform aims to "make the tax system fairer and more neutral". I understand what "fair" means, but what does "neutral" mean? What does this neutrality mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u93	Madam President, Mr Van Hees, in pursuance of the government agreement, I will of course prepare for the tax reform and I have the ambition to be able to present a very concrete draft drawn up by the end of the parliamentary term, preferably a draft which can also be debated in Parliament. It is my intention to conduct this process step by step and to involve Parliament in it. That is why, again this year, as announced, I will put on the table the broad conceptual lines of the reform. In this context, the principle of neutrality, which is one of the foundations of good taxation, will in any case be an important guiding principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u94	Minister, I was asking you what neutrality was. I wasn't asking you if you were going to have a neutral tax reform. I was just asking you what it was. It's a neutrality of what? That was the meaning of my question, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u95	Minister, would you like to complete your answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u96	I repeat what I said, Madam President. This is one of the important guiding principles. It will be important to see the proposal that I will put on the table in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u97	Madam Chair, I hear the minister doesn't specify. So I have no choice but to ask the question again. What does this neutrality mean? Minister, for the rest, I hear you say you're going to "prepare". You're not saying you're going to "realize." It's still striking. You're saying you're going to try to have the project developed by the end of the legislature. It was understood that it would be developed in 2022. Finally, what you are going to provide to the government in 2022 is not a tax reform, but a few conceptual lines, a "pure wave," as I said. So we are somewhat below what was announced at the end of the previous year. We see that this great tax reform is not ready to be carried out and there are still serious doubts as to whether it can be carried out under this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u98	Madam President, Minister, in early November 2021, the officers of the expert teams of the General Tax Administration received the following message: "Public procurement procedures for the renewal of subscriptions with the publishers Lefebvre Sarrut (ex Larcier) and Kluwer were successful. New procedures will have to be relaunched. As a result, and until the new markets are concluded, access by these two publishers will be limited to archives. This unavailability will last several months. We understand the work discomfort that this generates. Be assured that we are doing everything we can", etc. The same officers then learned that the majority of Kluwer's publications were again available from 1 December 2021. Subscription to the Tax Courier was not renewed due to its similarity with other publications. Still, a series of publications remain unavailable for agents. However, access to these private tax databases is essential for these agents of the tax administration's expert teams. They no longer have access to recent jurisprudence and doctrine. And even access to archives is problematic for many agents. Depriving them of such access means depriving them of their working tools. This could have an unfortunate impact on the legal defence of cases. They are agents who defend tax cases in court. Staying for several months without these accesses is inconceivable. Minister, why have the public procurement procedures for the renewal of subscriptions with the above-mentioned publishers been successful? Have the new public procurement procedures for the renewal of subscriptions been relaunched? Within what time frame should they be achieved? What alternative solution is proposed in the meantime for these agents? How can they work without a work tool?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u99	Madam President, Mr Van Hees, best and finaloffer negotiations have taken place with Lefebvre Sarrut and Kluwer. In both cases, a problem of substantial irregularity in the signing power of the representatives of the undertakings arose when the contract was awarded. Since the procedures concerned are above the European threshold for publication, regularisation is not possible. While for Lefebvre Sarrut the absence of a legally valid endorsement of the tender was indisputable, the contracting authority was of the opinion that there were legal arguments for it to accept Kluwer's signature as legally valid. The Finance Inspectorate followed this reasoning for Kluwer, but for Lefebvre Sarrut only a new public procurement was launched. For Kluwer, therefore, there is no longer any problem and for Lefebvre Sarrut the new procedure is in the allocation phase. Negotiations with Lefebvre Sarrut on the basis of the opening offer are under way and the award can take place shortly. Various possibilities are available to finance officers who are therefore not without working tools. First, in the previous special specification, access to the archives for six months after the conclusion of a contract is guaranteed. Finance officers currently have limited access to all content present on this date but more to new content. Secondly, since 1 December, Kluwer content has been accessible again. Third, the Fisconetplus portal published by the FPS Finances brings together important content, whether in case law, tax and legal codes, administrative documents, comments or courses. The content published on this Finance portal is copied daily by external publishers who integrate this information into their paid portal. Fisconetplus is also used by large legal or tax firms and is recommended in schools. Fourth, the FPS Finance Library is open and accessible. A large number of paper and electronic works are available. Finally, it is also possible for them to use their colleagues in the relevant internal services, such as litigation services. FPS Finance encourages knowledge sharing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u100	Minister, thank you for your answers. If I understand your explanation correctly, the error comes from these providers of legal publications. I hear that a new public procurement is being launched and that this is to happen soon. We would have liked to have more details on the term "next." A date would have been more useful. You also say that access to the archives is guaranteed. It's not the echoes I have. Agents do not even have access to the archives and do not have access to tax news. I recognize that Fisconetplus is an excellent tool, but it is insufficient, which is demonstrated by the fact that the administration had to enter into contracts with private firms to complete the documentation of Fisconetplus.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u101	Minister, last December the conclusions of the Arms Trade 2020 report and the report 'Under the radar' of the Flemish Peace Institute were discussed in the Flemish Parliament. In its report, the Institute identifies several deficiencies in the control of arms transit in Flanders. This control concerns weapons transported across Flemish territory to other countries, where they are then exported. About these controls, the Flemish Peace Institute says: "Continuing controls strengthen government control over weapons at times where they are vulnerable to be averted to unwanted end-users or illegal arms markets. In this way, transit control is essential in the security of the global supply chain." The report clearly shows that strengthening these controls is important for the fulfilment of certain strategic and human rights obligations of our country. It should be noted that the problem of transit control is not so much a problem with the standards, but rather with the effective implementation of the control. In this context, the role of customs is important, as it must identify, monitor and monitor suspicious transit flows as a regulator of trade flows, and monitor compliance with the licensing conditions. Since the permits and conditions of authorisation are drawn up by the Flemish authorities, good cooperation between these services is of course very important. I have the following questions to ask you. Are you aware of the Arms Trade 2020 report of the Flemish Peace Institute and more recent publications, and do you agree with the main conclusions of that report? Where do you yourself find the difficulties in the current cooperation between the customs authorities and the Flemish entities involved in drawing up the licences and there are similar difficulties between the federal customs authorities and the Walloon regulators? Has the process of reaching an inter-federal cooperation agreement between federal customs and relevant Flemish regulators already started? If so, how far is it? If not, when will that process start?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u102	Mr Vanbesien, the opinion on the Flemish Government's annual report to the Flemish Parliament on the licences granted and refused for weapons, ammunition and equipment specifically for military use and related technology, and the report 'Under the radar, transit of military goods: from licensing to control', are indeed well known to my administration. Specifically with regard to the conclusions which fall within my competence, I can state that the General Customs Administration and Excise Administration has a very wide range of fiscal and non-fiscal tasks. All these tasks shall be carried out in accordance with the priorities set, taking into account the resources available. Within the strategic policy areas of the General Administration, the focus on strategic goods is one of the priorities. My administration also agrees with the conclusion that further cooperation between customs and export control services should be provided. The customs administration will continue to work on formal cooperation in this context. Shipments and transit without transhipment should not be legally required to be notified to our Customs and Excise authorities, which makes it particularly difficult to control them. Customs and Excise duties shall be subject to the control of those consignments by the competent authorities concerned. This challenge does not arise with the Walloon regulator, since transit without transhipment is not subject to authorisation in Walloon territory. The regionalisation of the Arms Act of 5 August 1991 has led to a lack of legal coordination. The various attempts to resolve this by means of a cooperation agreement have not led to a solution. In 2015, the Consultation Committee commissioned the establishment and mandate of a working group for the purpose of interfederal agreements on the enforcement of regional rules on the import, export and transit of strategic goods. A final consultation took place in September 2017, where a joint initiative of all the Regions would be taken from the competent authorities to the federal level to settle this politically, but I do not have any further information on its current status. In addition, there has, of course, been further informal consultations following specific cases since the decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u103	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. What I already knew is confirmed by your answer. We live in a particularly complicated country. A country like ours needs good agreements to coordinate tasks, divided between different entities. This is certainly important in the context of arms transport or strategic goods, because the failure of the system in this area can lead to very dangerous conditions. You say that an interfederal working group was set up to make agreements and that a final meeting took place in 2017. I am surprised that since then no one knows what has happened to those agreements, with that report or with its follow-up. That is why I think it is necessary to pay some attention to that, to see if we can put that back together and put some structure in it. In this way, the situation can be improved. Of course, from Parliament, I would like to contribute to this. I therefore hope that future reports from the Flemish Peace Institute, for example, will present a more positive result than today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u104	The Court of Auditors has published a recent report on "Measures to aid research and development (R&D) in corporate tax". These are three tax niches: the R&D tax credit, the patent income deduction and the innovation income deduction (to replace the previous one). They represent a cost of 1.2 billion euros in 2018, three times as much as in 2013 and this will continue to increase... The Federal Office of the Plan had already revealed, two years ago, that these measures have relatively little R&D spending, especially on the part of large companies. This fact already established by the OECD or the European Commission is therefore confirmed today by the Court of Auditors. The Commission had also drawn similar findings a few years ago in another report on waivers from professional prepayments, including those for R&D (which is decidedly benefiting from many offerings). In addition, most of the money, this report shows, is concentrated on a limited number of large recipient companies, including – and I say this – the multinational pharmaceutical company which, in 2007, had its lawyers draft the Patent Income Deduction Act. The Court also points to a tax control "often difficult to achieve and time-consuming because of the complex and technical regulatory framework" including the complicated relationship between Belspo (which renders unmotivated opinions) and the FPS Finances. Belspo, who must therefore judge whether it is R&D according to the legal criteria. Among its recommendations, the Court "proposes to consider the possibility of limiting the total amount of aid or introducing a lower deduction percentage above a certain ceiling". Minister, what follow-up do you intend to give to this report? In particular, are you considering reducing these tax gifts, as proposed by the Court? What measures do you intend to take to address the problems of fiscal control? Should you not address these issues in conjunction with the issue of R&D Professional Prepayment Exemptions, Targeted for Similar Criticism and Purposes of Government Spending Reviews? What is the state of play in this R&D spending review project? This should be done but nothing can be seen!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u105	Mr Van Hees, the various recommendations made by the Court of Auditors are currently being examined with a view to clarifying or amending legislation in order to ensure a more secure legal application and to increase the efficiency of the resources used to support research and development. As indicated above, the various recommendations will also be examined, including in conjunction with certain international developments in the field of taxation. As a result, it would be premature to deal with concrete measures at this stage. My administration has already taken action on the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, carrying out more focused and uniform checks. The findings and recommendations of the Court of Auditors are also taken into account in the reform of the exemption from the transfer of corporate tax on research and development. However, consultations within the government and with stakeholders on this draft are still ongoing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u106	Minister, thank you for your answers. It seems logical to me to bring together the reflections on these different tax niches and the exemptions of professional discount on research and development. I understand that the administration will review this report to amend the legislation. It is premature to talk about concrete measures, but I hope that this will happen within a reasonable time. I will certainly come back to you on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u107	Minister, the law of 20 December 2019 transposed the European directive, called DAC 6, presented as a weapon in the fight against aggressive tax planning. Under this Act, intermediaries must transmit to the competent authorities information they are aware of, possess or control over aggressive cross-border devices. This obligation to declare entered into force on 1 January 2021, with administrative tolerance until the end of February. That was a good part of last year. How many returns did they make in the year 2021? Is this number consistent with expectations? Have sanctions already been applied for breach of obligations under the above-mentioned Act? If so, how many? On the basis of the returns received, what are the administrative plans for tax control?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u108	Dear colleague, in 2021, the FPS Finance received 718 communications under the December 20, 2019 Act. The initiative on cross-border arrangements subject to notification has come from the European Commission. The Commission published an impact assessment when it launched the proposal for a directive. An impact assessment can also be found in the House documents relating to the Belgian bill; I can send you both links for these two reports. These two analyses show that neither the European Union nor the Belgian administration had any concrete expectations as to the number of notifications resulting from this new transparency measure. Furthermore, I can point out that to date no fines have been imposed as a result of a violation of this measure. My administration is working to make this data available to its screening officers in the near future. The use of data for risk analysis will, in principle, also be possible in the near future. However, my administration has already begun to develop a framework for the risk centre analysis to select the most relevant files to be monitored. Once this risk analysis has been finalized, the necessary controls can be launched. Since these reports may concern both natural persons and companies, this risk analysis requires a joint approach between the different departments involved in my administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u109	Thank you for your answers, Minister. We will follow this file carefully to see what happens to the controls following these 718 communications. I find it a bit unfortunate that you have no appreciation for this number of 718. Is it a little or a lot? I'll take note of that. That's the end of my line.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u110	Minister, this question duplicates a previous one. They missed the filter of the attached questions, but it's no big deal. According to the Advance Rulings Service (ADS), the collaborative economy tax regime provided for in Article 90, paragraph 1, of IARC 92 could apply to delivery agents who provide delivery services through a licensed platform such as Deliveroo. However, in a judgment of 8 December 2021, the Brussels Labour Court decided, on the contrary, that couriers delivering meals through a platform carry out a professional activity because they did not qualify for the collaborative economy scheme for several reasons: - it is not a service rendered by the taxpayer himself, but the delivery of goods; - services are not provided outside the scope of a professional activity; this is demonstrated by the fact that, from September 2015 to January 2018, couriers performed their services under paid or self-employed status, before being encouraged to be employed in the framework of the collaborative economy; - incidentally, meals are not delivered only to private individuals. However, the platforms continue to recruit couriers in the collaborative economy regime. As a result, the latter are at risk of having to pay independent social contributions and of being taxed under the general tax system. Minister, should advance rulings that conflict with the above-mentioned judgment be considered null and void? Will your administration inform companies affected by such advance rulings that they are no longer able to take effect and that, as a result, these companies can no longer issue tax slips 281.29? What initiatives are you going to take to ensure that in the end, delivery agents are victims of this case, paying tax adjustments and arrears in social contributions? Are you considering amending or clarifying, at least, the tax legislation so that the collaborative economy regime is clearly reserved for its original purpose, i.e. for occasional services between individuals?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u111	Mr Van Hees, the Labour Auditorate having appealed the Labour Court's judgement, the FPS Finances will wait for the decision on appeal to take a position on this case. In the meantime, the collaborative economy tax system will continue to apply in accordance with advance rulings. Couriers will continue to benefit from this scheme when all conditions are met, including those related to income limitation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u112	That is a short answer, minister. Mr Van Hees, you have the floor for a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u113	Minister, this is a short answer, but I find it worrying. You indicate that the auditorate has appealed, but this one is not going to change anything at all. Indeed, the auditorate considers it to be paid work, whereas the Brussels Labour Court considers it to be self-employed. In both cases, it is a professional activity, and therefore not a service within the framework of the collaborative economy. Therefore, we know in advance what will be the outcome of this appeal. In short, this situation is very problematic. On the one hand, court decisions are clearly in line with an activity that is not part of the collaborative economy. On the other hand, workers - even if they are not so qualified - may be overtaxed and pay regularisations of social contributions. It therefore seems irresponsible to me to consider that the collaborative economy regime continues to apply. On the other hand, it is also worrying to note the reversal of the position of the tax administration, which seems to have been pressured by Deliveroo and other platforms in order to achieve the imposition of their views. In conclusion, we are witnessing competition from two doctrines: on the one hand, the auditorate and the labour court, which speak of professional activity; and on the other, the tax administration, which continues to see occasional benefits in the context of the collaborative economy. That's disturbing!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u114	Madam President, best wishes to colleagues in the Finance Committee and to the Minister. Minister, my question is about company cars. The human resources provider Acerta presented its mobility barometer 2021, with a 3% increase in the number of company cars compared to 2020, and a 26% increase over the past five years. These company vehicles still drive mainly diesel, despite our intentions to green this fleet (67% of vehicles drive diesel). This worries us for various reasons: the impact on public finances, the cost of congestion for the economy, estimated at 2.3 billion euros per year according to the Plan Bureau and of course the impact on air quality. As the social partners have pointed out, the greater the advantage of a company car, the more difficult it is to convince people to switch completely or partly to other more sustainable modes of transport. If increases are due to the health crisis, they could have a lasting impact on our travel patterns. This is contrary to the government's objectives in terms of mobility, climate and budget. Reforms have been initiated; others are coming in terms of budget and mobility, particularly in terms of the mobility budget. Some provisions came into effect in January. Minister, do you have an analysis of the impact of the growth of these corporate vehicles on the level of CO2 emissions and on the budget and prospects that this represents? The reforms under way concerning the company car fleet will be evaluated in 2026. What monitoring do you intend to ensure in terms of interim evaluations to measure whether our shift modal trajectory remains realistic despite these figures, which are worrying? Finally, according to a Touring survey published this week, one in five workers still do not know whether their employer is proposing a mobility budget. What measures are you considering to popularize it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u115	Madam Chair, Mr. Parent, based on the tax return data, the FPS Finance makes estimates. However, these data are only available on June 30 of the year following the tax year, once enrolment is complete. This means that the Finance FPS now has revenue data for 2019. These data are used to estimate the number of company cars, but not their budgetary cost. Indeed, the FPS Finances does not have data on certain parameters of the calculation of the benefit of any kind. This is the case with the CO2 coefficient, which would make it possible to make an estimate of the environmental impact. In the future, a better exchange of data with the Mobility FPS and the ONSS should provide a better insight into the company's fleet. But there are still some obstacles that make this data exchange impossible at the moment, such as negotiating a protocol with the Mobility FPS and approving a request for data exchange by the Privacy Department of the Banque-Carrerfour de la Sécurité sociale. We hope that these two problems will be resolved in the near future. As noted earlier, this date of 2026 was not chosen by chance. This is the first useful time when the new legislation will operate at cruising speed and where sufficient information will be available to measure the budgetary impact throughout the transition period from 1 September 2021 to 1 January 2026, the date on which carbon-free business vehicles will become the norm. Until such information and data are available, it will be extremely difficult to make an adequate and useful assessment of the many measures envisaged in the context of greening mobility. The Act of 25 November 2021 organising the tax and social greening of mobility brought about a reform of the Mobility budget, which aims to strengthen attractiveness and simplify this advantage. We hope that these reforms will bear fruit.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u116	Minister, thank you for your answer. On the one hand, I am pleased to hear that we are moving towards monitoring on the basis of concrete data and I am confident that you will, together with your colleagues, make every effort to reach a memorandum of understanding to measure the impact of company vehicles. On the other hand, I do not hide my concern with regard to the second part of your answer. You refer to 2026 as the date of changeover, but it is only the date of changeover in relation to the greening of company vehicles and not at all in relation to the modal number. So greener cars on our roads in 2026, it is a course that will probably be held in one way or another, but it will still and ever more cars on our roads and therefore, problems related to congestion but also pressure on our energy consumption. Therefore, Minister, I believe that in this area, it is important to remain vigilant and to have a modal monitoring in line with the government's objectives in relation to mobility, namely to reduce our travel needs and make them easier via public transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u117	Question No 55023972C by Mr Hughes Bayet is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u118	Madam President, Ms Matz, to determine whether or not an autonomous municipal government (RCA) has a profit-making purpose is often less obvious. Although the statutes may give an indication of this, the administration can always investigate whether the statutory provisions concerning the presence of a profit-making purpose are not purely theoretical. This will be the case when there are systematic deficits in the head of the CAR because the prices charged to visitors to the facility are not sufficient to cover the operating costs of the CAR and it is therefore impossible to distribute profits. The decision published on 19 January 2016 already provides that the profit or loss resulting from the overall activity of the CAR must be structural and independent of random events affecting income and exemptions. The exceptional economic circumstances resulting from the covid-19 epidemic are these. The measures contained in Circular 2021/C/57, which ended on 30 September 2021, are not extended in general, given the current situation and the fact that the CARs have different activities. However, if an RCA considers that there are exceptional economic circumstances in its head, the RCA is requested to contact the administration. It is up to the VAT control centre on which the person concerned depends to decide on the exceptional circumstances in question, taking into account all the facts specific to the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u119	Minister, thank you. I understand that everyone can apply for derogations to find solutions. It is true that I do not understand very well why these measures are not extended at least until 31 December 2021, given that the period covid allowed the postponement until September 2021. The conditions of the pandemic have not fundamentally changed since then. It seems to me that it would have been easier for these autonomous communal authorities to benefit from a general measure and not from a particular situation. I will not fail to convey your answer to those concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u120	I refer to the written version of my oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u121	I also refer to the written version of my oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u122	I agree with colleagues and also refer to the written version of my oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u123	Contrary to what is sometimes claimed, citizens already have the opportunity to access the National Bank of Belgium and to request information about the persons and institutions who have consulted their personal data at the Central Contact Point (CAP). This right of access stems directly from the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and is also explicitly provided for in Article 18 of the Royal Decree of 7 April 2019 on the functioning of the CAP of accounts and financial contracts. The National Bank shall forward the results of the search to the citizen in question free of charge. The way in which citizens can exercise this right of access has also been described on the website of the National Bank. In response to Mr Vermeersch's question, an appeal to the Constitutional Court for the annulment of Chapter 4 of the Programme Act of 20 December 2020 was brought. The government has intervened but has no knowledge of the timing of the course of justice. I refer to the reasons given by the governments, to the various opinions of the GBA, as well as to the possibility provided by CAP legislation to request information from the National Bank of Belgium about persons and institutions that may consult their personal data, to which I referred earlier. The CAP has also been established in the implementation of international rules, such as the European Union's Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive, and is therefore a framework within an objective set out in the GDPR on Union law and public authorities as recipients of personal data. The study on data mining should clarify whether and how this is possible within the administrative functioning and does not initially constitute a legislative dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u124	Madam President, it is good to hear that it is already possible to request these data. I therefore have no further questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u125	The Minister's answer was clear. I had already mentioned in my question that there is already access, although I still believe that the information on this issue should be clearer and simpler, even if it is regulated at European level. It must be made clear to the public that this is already possible. Even in this committee there was a misunderstanding. Apparently, it is not clear to everyone. The procedure should also be further simplified so that citizens can easily know whether or not there has been access.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u126	Minister, let me be clear: the Flemish interest rejects this government's plans to have access to our bank accounts and to abolish banking secrecy. The corona crisis was not only abused to take away our freedoms but also to slyly enter the asset register. From this year on, this register will be accessible to more and more parties and will also contain more and more information. Officials, the tax authorities, as well as notaries and bailiffs can see from now on how much money is in our accounts, how much someone has borrowed and how much a person's life insurance is worth. The Flemish interest has always expressly opposed this in Parliament. Anyone who wants to look at our bank accounts cannot, of course, exclude that the balance on those accounts will ever be taxed. The latter of course do not (yet) tell the purple-green parties. The viewing of bank accounts is a first step towards a capital lodger. As a member of a Flemish national freedom party, I can be very clear about this: the Flemish interest will continue to oppose such a property landladist. For the Flemish Interest, banking secrecy must remain in this country. We don't want the Belgian government to check our accounts.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u127	Minister, I am glad to be able to ask this question today. A small group of Dutch Holocaust survivors living in Belgium, but not less important, is very concerned about the assessment of their pension. They have become concerned after certain rumours they have heard about the negotiations between Belgium and the Netherlands on the double taxation treaty. In recent weeks, we have also dealt with various provisions in the context of the discussion of the law. With my question, I want to stop these rumors and give them the assurance that their tax status will remain unchanged, even after the negotiations between Belgium and the Netherlands on the double taxation treaty. Mr Minister, can you guarantee that the tax status of these people will not change?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u128	There are no plans in that direction. There are indeed negotiations on the conclusion of a new double taxation treaty with the Netherlands. The content of these negotiations is confidential. I can tell you that Belgium is trying to keep the situation of pensioners unchanged.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u129	Minister, that answer is enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u130	In implementing the government agreement, I am preparing a broader tax reform that should not only simplify our tax system, but also make it fairer and more neutral. The government agreement also provides for a gradual shift from alternative forms of remuneration to remuneration in euros. In that context, it was appropriate not to encourage a new form of wage flexibility, whereby, in the context of a cafeteria plan, the energy bill is paid by the employer, fiscally and therefore not to value the benefit of all kinds on a flat-rate basis in such cases. However, the flat-rate valuation will continue to apply in cases where that valuation is generally used for a longer period, in particular in cases where free electricity and/or heating is provided together with the provision of a home free of charge, e.g. for concierges. In these cases, the enjoyer of the advantage often has no impact on the energy efficiency of the home that is made available to him or on the contract concluded for the supply of electricity and heating. For those taxpayers, the tax treatment of the benefit has therefore not changed either. The FPS Finance does not have precise data on the number of taxpayers for whom the benefit of all kinds would increase. Indeed, the data on the income sheets are not sufficiently detailed to know this number. The tax treatment of the advantage has not changed for a large part of the taxpayers who already benefited from it. The budgetary revenue entered in the measure shall be considered as a statement of reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic661x.u131	Minister, this is something I say every time a new tax increase is made by the government. I understand that we are tackling tax niches and discussing them in the context of this great reform, but what you are always doing is reducing tax niches and closing tax benefits before the debate on this reform is launched. It is all the more incomprehensible that, when the energy bill also increases for employees, self-employed persons and managers, there will also be a tax increase.
