ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic711x.u1	I refer to the extensive written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic711x.u2	Mrs Dierick, the producer is responsible for the safety of his products, in accordance with European legislation. The poultry sector certainly accepts its responsibility for the presence of salmonella. Auto-control ensures the safety of the food chain at different levels, but that is the responsibility of the operator and cannot therefore be taken over by the government. Since 2007, appropriate and efficient measures for the detection and control of salmonella have been developed at both national and European level to reduce the risk to public health. No more analyses are carried out in any sector and for no zoonoses than for salmonella in poultry. European legislation lays down a process hygiene criterion for salmonella for roast chickens and turkeys. The verification of compliance with the process hygiene criterion shall also be carried out by the operators of the slaughterhouses in the context of the auto-check. The BFSA carries out checks on that mandatory autocheck. European regulations impose both process hygiene criteria and food safety criteria. In non-compliance with the criteria, companies must take corrective action. During the BFSA checks, it will be checked whether these measures are being taken. If problems are identified repeatedly, the BFSA will monitor more closely and impose additional measures, in accordance with EU rules. However, there is no zero risk; even with the best systems contamination is possible. The salmonella serotypes that are transmitted to humans do not cause animal diseases - they do not make animals sick - but they do cause zoonoses. It is therefore logical that salmonella was not mentioned in the relevant question. A brief overview of the results of the Belgian monitoring can be found on the website of the BFSA. Not all serotypes of zoonotic salmonella are equally pathogenic or virulent. The presence of the main human serotypes is between 1.3 and 3.6 %, depending on the type of poultry. There is therefore no question of a problematic circulation. The situation in our country is similar to that in our neighbouring countries. In August 2021, the European Commissioner responsible for food safety replied to the European Parliament that, following the disproportionate number of RASFF messages for salmonella contamination of Polish meat, she acted. An action plan is now being implemented by Poland. If necessary, an audit may also be carried out by the European Commission services. Just as the European Commissioner says in her reply, I can tell you that salmonella controls are harmonised in the EU and that there is therefore a level playing field for all operators in the EU. It is therefore up to Poland and the European Commission to take action. Of course, the file will be followed up by the BFSA. In view of the harmonisation of salmonella control and controls in the EU, no targeted controls are carried out on products produced in another Member State. Each Member State has a responsibility in Europe to ensure food safety on its territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic711x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. I am, however, somewhat reassured by your statement that self-checking is being carried out precisely, that every country in Europe must comply with the same control and quality requirements and that a level playing field must certainly apply. In the reportage that was not really clear and it seemed to be different. That line must not be exceeded. As consumers, we must be sure that the meat or product we wish to consume is subject to adequate security controls, regardless of the country of origin.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic711x.u4	Minister, I asked you about the crisis in the pig sector about a month ago. You then referred to some of the measures you announced when discussing your policy paper, including the reduction of contributions to the Sanitary Fund and more transparency in the chain, by asking the Price Observatory of the FPS Economy to carry out an update of the analysis of pig prices and margins in the pig sector. As regards the updating of the analysis of pig prices and margins in the pig sector, you announced that you would receive them shortly thereafter. Hence my questions. Has the Price Observatory finalised the update of that analysis of pig prices and margins in the sector and provided you with any findings? What are the main findings and conclusions of this analysis? Will the report also be made available to Parliament, the Länder and the various actors in the chain talks? What impact will you have on this analysis in order to tackle the crisis in the pig sector? Have you already taken action to facilitate and activate the chain consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic711x.u5	Mr De Caluwé, the Price Observatory is working on the actualisation of the 2015 study on prices and margins in the pig sector. The study has not yet been completed, but we already received a first overview of the main findings in mid-February 2022. It appears that the pig sector is still an important part of animal production. It is noted that the number of pigs in Belgium has remained relatively stable over the years, but that the number of pig farms has fallen sharply over 15 years. It is also seen that pig prices and costs fluctuate greatly over time, but that costs increase systematically over the last few years, which means that profitability in the course of the years is indisputably declining. It is noted that the curves in our neighbouring countries are similar. At times when profitability is falling in Belgium, this is also the case in neighbouring countries. The graphs also suggest that consumption prices of pork and charcuterie increased over the years. Once the report is completed, it will be published on the FPS Economy website and accessible to everyone. We must, of course, wait for the study to be completed, but in addition to the measures I have already taken and which I explained in my reply to your questions of 26 January, I will continue to work at the level of the European Commission on the liberalisation of aid. I also study which slopes can still be viewed at federal level. As I have already mentioned, I would like to give the Food Chain Consultation Agrofood a new dynamic and make it play an active role in the dialogue between the various links of the chain. The Ketenconsultation meets on the initiative of the sectors, but during meetings in the cabinet, which I will continue to organise with the various links in the chain, I always stress the importance of this consultation and call for its active participation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic711x.u6	Mr Minister, the comprehensive report is not yet available, but it will be accessible to everyone on the website of the FPS Economy. I will probably come back to that at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic711x.u7	Mr Minister, my question is more specifically about influencers. This is a new trend in which people on social media do all kinds of posts for which they sometimes get a refund. They're worried. In our country it is mandatory to mention the contact details and address of the registered office on its own website and on company pages on social media. Since entrepreneurs can no longer live without their own website and must be active on social media, no one escapes that law. Self-employed influencers, a new trend on social media, where they do all kinds of posts and sometimes get a refund, are worried. If they have placed their activities in a company, they are obliged to indicate the address of the registered office on the web page. Often the registered office is at the same address as the private address. They are therefore forced to state their private address on their posts, on the social media they are active on, and fear that this will violate their privacy. Their often thousands of followers know exactly where they live. They ask if it is really necessary for the address to be mentioned. Furthermore, it is still unclear to them how to signal their followers that a post is about promotion. Minister, is a self-employed person obliged to mention the address where the company is based also on social media such as on TikTok, Facebook or Instagram? How can the mandatory address statement of the registered office of a company be consistent with the privacy of, for example, an influencer? Do you possibly provide for an exception for them, because their registered office is often also their private address? Can you explain why you are considering this or not? When posting social influencers sponsored posts online, it should clearly display through the addition of a particular hashtag that it is about advertising. There is now a lack of clarity among the various public authorities as to which hashtag should be used. Can you clarify which hashtag they should use effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic711x.u8	Mrs Dierick, first of all, each company is legally obliged to make certain data available, including the geographical address where the company is located. If the independent Facebook or Instagram is used as a digital display for its business activities, it is obliged to state its geographical address on that page. There is no exception for influencers. Once the influencer can be regarded as an undertaking, it must comply with the legislation applicable to all undertakings. The information to be made available to a company is based on European legislation. It is not possible to deviate from this at Belgian level. Secondly, in accordance with the legislation under my jurisdiction, it should only be explicitly stated that it is an advertisement, provided that the context does not already clearly indicate that it is a commercial message. The legislation does not require specific hashtags to be used. In the light of the prohibition of unfair commercial practices, the hashtags must be sufficiently clear to show that they are advertising.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic711x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. I understand that no derogation can be granted because it is a European legislation, and that there is no need for a specific hashtag. It is sufficient that it is clear that it is only a promotion. Then it's clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic711x.u10	Mr President, Mrs Houtmeyers, the legislator has repeatedly required certain safeguards in fire insurance for simple risk derivatives. For example, any fire insurance that provides cover for simple risk derivatives requires the guarantee against the damage it causes in an attack. An attack means, among other things, all forms of rebellion and popular movements. Damage to buildings resulting from such events shall then be borne by the fire insurer. If the trader has not only taken out fire insurance for the building but also for its contents, then it is also covered for damage under the warranty attacks. Damage caused by vandalism or theft, outside the context of an attack, can also be covered by fire insurance. Vandalism is a cover that is not mandatory, but is often endorsed in practice. Given the possibility of covering vandalism damage by insurance, the creation of a fund does not seem to be relevant in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic711x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic711x.u12	Mr President, Mrs Dierick, the problem you are raising is not new. In fact, as you quite rightly point out in the preamble, the period of accelerated digitisation that we have experienced in the context of the pandemic has only made the situation in the field of cyber attacks worse. This is why the FPS Economy has been working for several years to provide an adequate response for SMEs and self-employed people. The cyberscan you're talking about is one of the shutters of that answer. It is an instrument that provides an overview of the level of cyber alert to an SME that consults the scan and provides appropriate advice to improve it. Cyber insurance is part of that advice, but it is not the only part. It is a package of measures to be taken to ensure that an SME's cyber resilience is effectively enhanced, taking into account data protection obligations in accordance with the GDPR. Insurance alone is not enough. The cyberscan focuses on small SMEs with less than 50 full-time equivalents and self-employed people who have little knowledge of cybersecurity and are the vast majority of our economic landscape. The instrument is designed to be as accessible and user-friendly as possible with simple vocabulary, animated videos, templates to fill in and that's more. I cannot give you figures on the consultation of the instrument, for the simple reason that the cyberscan has not yet been published. This should be done by the end of the first quarter of 2022. The FOD Economy and the FOD BOZA involved in its development need a little more time than foreseen to publish the cyberscan. Some technical difficulties had to be addressed. I will not fail to communicate about the cyber scan as soon as it is available, in consultation with the other competent ministers and State Secretary, i.e. with Minister of Telecommunications Petra De Sutter and Secretary of State Mathieu Michel. The other project you mention, which is being carried out together with the Minister for Telecommunications, is the second part of the response to the needs of SMEs and the self-employed. This project of the Plan for Recovery and Resilience consists of three components, which will be developed between 2022 and 2026. Firstly, a cybersecurity website for SMEs to provide them with all the necessary information on this issue. This website will contain the cyberscan I just mentioned. Secondly, an annual communication campaign to sensitise SMEs to cyber security risks and the measures to be taken to improve their cyber resistance and to draw attention to the projects at their disposal to support them. Thirdly, calls for projects that you mentioned in your question to finance projects that support and assist SMEs in improving the cybersecurity of their businesses, such as info sessions, training, making software available or developing, or still providing security audits and advice. A reflection committee has been set up and is currently meeting. For example, various stakeholders, such as the Cybersecurity Centre Belgium, are consulted to ensure that this project meets the needs of the field and is complementary to existing federal and regional initiatives. According to current planning, the full specifications will be published in the second quarter of 2022, both for the public contract for the development of the website and the communication campaign, and for the calls for projects. The selection of tenders and the introduction should take place in the second half of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic711x.u13	Minister, I realise that my question is premature and that the project has not yet started. I'm sure I'll keep following it up. No doubt I will come back to this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic711x.u14	Mr Minister, today I address you in this committee in your area of competence of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, Self-employed, SMEs and Agriculture. You have received a letter from the Minister for Institutional Reforms. As a minister, it is a coincidence that you are also responsible for institutional reform, so you have sent a letter to yourself, in particular asking for the government agreement to be implemented. A paragraph in the coalition agreement states that the federal powers must also consider how they can be used to support Land policy, so that asymmetric policies are pursued. As a minister, you have sent a letter to yourself asking what you will do with it, how you will actually implement it. I have heard that you have not yet sent yourself an answer, rather rudely, and have not yet sent back a letter. Since something may have gone wrong, I ask you this question in your capacity as Minister of Industry. Mr. Secretary, did you receive that letter from yourself? How will you answer that? In other words, do you have proposals to make in your own field, economy, asymmetric policy proposals? Could you inform Parliament of this if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic711x.u15	Minister, Mr Loones has just asked whether the letter has arrived. Maybe it was sent by in-house mail, maybe.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic711x.u16	Mr President, I have good news. Since I'm coherent, I sent that letter. Mr Loones, there are several protocol agreements between the Regions and the Communities on the one hand and the BFSA on the other, which have been in force since 2003. A number of technical tasks were delegated to the Regions by Royal Decree of 10 October 2003 entrusting the Regions with the performance of certain tasks falling within the competence of the Federal Food Chain Safety Agency. This Royal Decree was taken in implementation of the Law of 4 February 2000 establishing the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain and the Law of 2 April 1971 on the control of organisms harmful to plants and plant products. This Royal Decree, which was discussed in the Council of Ministers, provides for a division of tasks for specific subjects, as set out in the cooperation agreement of 18 June 2003 between the Federal State, the Flemish Region, the Walloon Region and the Brussels-Capital Region with regard to the exercise of regionalised powers in the field of Agriculture and Fisheries. Moreover, a certain number of tasks are carried out by the BFSA on behalf of the Regions, which may have an impact on the targeted control policy. An important aspect in this context is, for example, the monitoring of cross-compliance in the context of the granting of premiums linked to the CAP. In order to determine the premiums in the context of European support to farmers, the Regions must base themselves on the BFSA control data. A specific convention was concluded between the departments concerned. A second example is the Food Chain Control Regulation (EU 2017/625), which provides for the establishment of a multi-annual national control plan. The MANCP shall be carried out by a single coordinating body. These are powers that belong not only to the federal but also to the regional level. To date, a solution has been discussed to establish a single body within the Belgian authorities. As Minister responsible for the safety of the food chain, I will send a letter containing this information in response to the question of the Minister for Institutional Reforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic711x.u17	Mr Minister, I would like to thank you for the answer you have given to the question of agriculture, small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people. I find it interesting because you're not only proving that it's possible, but also because it's already happening. Federal powers are used and operated in a different way, compared to different states. Once in a while, doubt is sown about that. It is said that there would be legal problems. You confirm it's possible. That's a first good step. You refer to examples of food safety and agriculture. Unfortunately, I have not heard you say anything about the wider sector of SMEs and the self-employed. I believe that there, too, creative steps can be taken to be more interested in these people and to be able to pursue a better policy. That will ensure that your letter to your colleague can be even more thickened.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic711x.u18	Mr Minister, I will not talk about the employment deal today, but I would like to take you back to the discussion of the policy papers a few months ago in this committee. You announced at that time that you would have a study conducted on the development of e-commerce by SMEs with a view to viewing a detailed set of proposals on the different digital transformation processes needed for this. Meanwhile, the Central Council for Business has been commissioned. A first report has been drawn up, but this is only about the clarification of the mandate so far. You also announced that you would control the major foreign market players who have been active on the online market for a long time. You would also look at the SDG guidelines on environment, mobility and health. What is the state of the investigation announced? What proposals can we expect within what timeframe? In the meantime, have controls been carried out on the major international market players? What aspects of this do you provide for regulation? Given the SDG objectives, how are you facing the unlimited return of items and deliveries within 24 hours?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic711x.u19	Mr Van Lommel, the study was outsourced to a service provider and is currently being carried out by him. The result of the study will be delivered to my administration, the FPS Economy, during the second trimester of 2022. On this basis, communication tools will be developed which will be the subject of an awareness-raising campaign aimed at the self-employed and SMEs. The Economic Inspection shall carry out checks on the basis of notifications received through the contact point, but shall also regularly organise on its own initiative checks. These controls concern Belgian companies but also major international players in the field of e-commerce. At European level, the Economic Inspectorate represents our country in the Consumer Protection Cooperation Network or CPC network. Where infringements are detected on the website of non-Belgian European companies, the Economic Inspectorate shall inform its foreign counterpart. In such cases, the Economic Inspection may send a request for international cooperation via the CPC network to the competent authority of the country where the company concerned is established. It is up to that authority to act on the irregularities identified by the Economic Inspectorate. Belgium is also regularly involved in joint actions within the CPC network involving key international players in the field of e-commerce. The checks relate to compliance with the rules on distance selling. I don't have a specific bill in preparation on e-commerce. As Minister for Self-employed and SMEs, I am aware of the hard competition between the different players in the e-commerce market. For the smallest structures it is sometimes difficult to be competitive with the big historical players in e-commerce. In addition, environmental challenges must be taken into account. When it is stated that a delivery is free, that is never really the case. There are harmonised European trade rules on delivery and return that safeguard the rights of consumers, in particular on the waiver of online purchases within fourteen days of receipt of the goods. Depending on the seller's general terms and conditions, the return costs will be borne by the consumer or by the seller. It is important that the details of distance selling are taken into account. The rules should be defined at European level. For the rest, I invite you to address Minister De Sutter for her projects on bpost.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic711x.u20	Minister, you said that the study was outsourced to an external service provider and that we can expect the results in the second quarter of this year. I'm glad you gave that order, but you didn't tell me about the timeline after that. Once you have received the results, it is time to move on to action. You have explained what the Economic Inspectorate is doing, and that is good, but once again I have not heard from you what you, as a policymaker, expect to do more specifically. You say there's no such thing for free, and that's true. Perhaps you could say that to the Socialists. You did not go into the SDG objectives further but referred to the European regulations and policies of Minister De Sutter in relation to bpost, but e-commerce, of course, includes much more than just bpost. You didn't go into more detail about that either. I expected a little more of your answer.
