ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u1	Minister, in March you announced that you would present the great work deal to the social partners. You would take their opinions into account provided they were unambiguous. But, of course, the National Labour Council did not succeed in expressing a clear position and now the dossier returns to the government table. In the meantime, your party itself put forward thirteen proposals to increase purchasing power, which at least partly overlap or contradict the proposed employment deal. Your coalition partners are also not always enthusiastic about the latest proposals. But let me come back to the famous labor deal-without-deal. How will you implement your plans in the absence of an agreement with the social partners? How do you feel about the criticism they made of your plans? In the meantime, has the momentum for the work deal not passed, since post-corona recovery is still going on for various reasons, not to mention energy prices and inflation by name? Do you not have the opportunity to put the deal to the vote earlier in Parliament so that the labour market can be encouraged? In view of the crisis that is coming towards us, will you take additional measures to stimulate the labour market and the level of activity? If so, what measures are they?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u2	You will not be surprised, Minister, that I, too, have tabled a question on the subject. You forwarded the employment deal agreed in the government to the social partners. Earlier this year, you also said that you would take their unanimous position into account. However, today we note that there has been no unanimous vote by the social partners. That is quite remarkable, just because, according to a lot of labour market experts, the employment deal has little to do with increasing the level of employment, but rather a modernisation of our labour law. There is nothing wrong with that in itself, but the employment deal still does not contain the measures that should be the great leap forward in terms of the level of employment in this country, which is one of the great ambitions of the government and of you as Minister of Labour. Even on this point, the social partners cannot reach an agreement. The question is indeed how to proceed. What next steps will you take? Will you put the deal to the vote in Parliament? Or are you going to try another round with the social partners first? If you do come to Parliament with the deal, will it be in a modified or unchanged form? An agreement has already been reached in the government on the employment deal. I would have liked to have heard from you how to proceed with your work deal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u3	Minister, the National Labour Council has just delivered its opinion on the employment deal. The text is not unanimous, for obvious reasons, in my view. You said in the press that you were going to analyze each other's opinions and propose adjustments to the government. We welcome this because, in our view, this agreement is not good. It is understood that, on the liberal side, we want to apply the agreement as it exists, not to the line. My questions are quite simple: have you ever discussed these developments within the government? If so, have you been heard, and for what adaptations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u4	Minister, on 17 May 2022 the National Labour Council issued an opinion. That was a divided opinion, as has already been said. However, agreements on a more flexible framework are needed to adapt the regulatory framework to 2022. I am thinking of the possibility of combining work and private life better by performing a full-time job in four days, or working more than one week. The work deal also creates a framework for transitions. With regard to the right of dismissal through Article 39 and training, the employment deal is also taking important steps forward. It is therefore a little disappointing that the members of the National Labour Council have not found each other. The government must implement these necessary reforms, because they contribute to an increased level of effectiveness. That is a central objective in the coalition agreement. What is your response to the divided opinion of the social partners on the preliminary draft law on the employment deal? Do you confirm that it is the government's intention to present the employment deal to Parliament quickly? What's the timing of that? What measures are still in place to increase the level of activity towards 80% of the working-age population, as provided for in the government agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. As requested, the social partners gave their opinion on the proposals under the law on various employment provisions, better known as the employment deal. The advice of the social partners is published on the website of the National Labour Council, where it is accessible to everyone. It is true that opinions are divided, as the social partners could not agree on unanimous positions. Some measures are welcomed by workers' representatives who would like to go further, while employers' representatives are not in favour. Other measures are welcomed by employers' representatives who would like to go further while workers' representatives object. The positions thus reflect the search for a certain balance in the head of government. I was also able to read in this opinion suggestions for improving the text both from employers' representatives and from workers' representatives. I must regret that the social partners have decided to postpone an opinion on essential proposals, such as the recording of working time or the role and functioning of the Committee on Labour Relations. With the administration and my cabinet, we analyze what elements can be quickly incorporated into the draft legislation before they are submitted to the government at second reading. We are also doing the same with the information from the opinion of the Legislative Section of the Council of State, as well as from the Data Protection Authority. The preliminary draft law was submitted to the social partners within the National Labour Council, to the legislative section of the Council of State and to the Data Protection Authority. Thus, we are looking for elements that can be quickly integrated into the bill without questioning the overall balance of the text. Taking into account each other's positions, it is now up to the government to take a position in order to submit these proposals to your assembly. I hope that this position can be taken quickly so that Parliament can approve that preliminary draft law before the end of this parliamentary year. Mrs De Jonge, the various royal decisions on the cumulation of unemployment benefits with regional training contributions and the maintenance of part of the unemployment benefit with a bottleneck occupation or work in another state are still pending before the Council of State. I also put forward a proposal for the monitoring of the temporary unemployed to my colleagues in the federated entities within the framework of the inter-federal platform. This proposal is now submitted to the Management Committee of the ONEM for its opinion. As you know, this inter-federal platform is intended to be a long-term structure that analyses and analyses various proposals from either the federal or federated entities, in order to better collaborate between us and ensure that interregional mobility in the labour market can be promoted, accelerated and increased.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The shortness of it surprised me, because I believe that this is one of your most important dossiers. So I would have expected a very detailed answer, even because there were a lot of questioners and you had the opportunity to go far in detail. But perhaps the lack of detail, and expressing the details, is your biggest problem. You promised to take everyone into account, both employers' comments and workers' comments. You would also take into account the external opinions received. You must, of course, also get it through at second reading. From what I've heard from your coalition partners today and in the past week, I think this will be the hardest, especially if you want to keep your promise to land the summer recess. I fear that there will be nothing left of a real labour market policy and that the promises of the government agreement on activation may not be kept, not to mention the regionalisation of labour market policy, which was also a promise from the government agreement. I believe that we need to make real work of these three things in order to move forward with peace of mind. I still hope so, but I'm afraid so. I would like to give you a few weeks' grace, and I hope that something will come, but I have to admit that it may not work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u7	Minister, the course you are taking with this work deal is not so surprising. The social partners have never managed to reach an agreement on anything in the last 20 years, unless they could transfer the invoice to the government. That is not the case here. Then it turns out that everyone digs into their own trenches, which of course is devastating at a time like that in which we are now in. I think it is extremely important for the government itself to assume its responsibilities and for you to play a leading role. I would like to express the hope that in recent months the social partners have not been the excuse for this government to further weaken the employment deal that was agreed a few months ago within the government, whereas it was not the most punitive coffee originally. There's nothing as sad as limp coffee. I therefore hope that the social partners will not excuse you and the government for further weakening the employment deal until there is only one homeopathic brew left that we can expect little from. Our labour market really needs a turnaround. Our labour market needs structural reforms. With this labor deal, they still don't come. What's in it isn't wrong in itself. Well, at least let that survive.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u8	Minister, thank you. I am obviously not reassured and you realize that. The arrangements to which you refer do not, in our view, meet the expectations of the trade unions. This is not what is necessary for the world of work today. I am thinking above all of extending the possibility of night work to the day of ten hours a day; in contrast to a collective reduction in working time with maintenance of wages and compensatory hiring. It is a flagship measure of trade union organizations; I also think it was in your party's agenda. This is a measure that could really improve the reconciliation between private and professional life, contrary to what is on the table today. There is the whole problem of platform workers, who do not yet benefit from a real presumption of wage earners. I am also thinking of discrimination against the right to disconnect, which would apply only to small businesses. We would also have liked to see this agreement as an end-of-career arrangement. It is to be compared, to be compared with the 500,000 workers who are now ill because of stress; parental leave must also be valued. Nor have we heard anything about another flagship measure for the lowest incomes, namely the minimum wage of 14 euros per hour, not to mention the problem of integration allowances for our young people, with the anti-social reforms of the Di Rupo and Michel governments. You plan to reach an agreement before the summer, but the social pressure continues. Trade union actions continue. This continues to put pressure on you so that you can put on the government table much more social measures that reflect the reality of the world of work today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. An agreement between the social partners would have been nice, of course, but if there is no agreement, the government must take responsibility. I hear here saying that labour market policy must be pursued in the light of labour market constraints. In previous debates, I have already heard a number of proposals in this respect, such as an accelerated degressivity in unemployment benefits. To be honest, such proposals surprise me greatly, because the High Council for Employment said in 2018 that four out of ten new jobs are temporary jobs. There is therefore an urgent need to improve the quality of work. Just after that, the labor deal is on the line. I refer to the longer advance publication of variable timetables, better protection of platform staff, the right to training, the right to deconnection, time recording and the adjustment of working hours to the needs of the family. I am not saying that I welcome every part of this work deal, but I believe that the elements mentioned are important and I hope that we can make progress there.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for the answers. Together with you, we had to note that this was difficult for the social partners, which means that there is no unanimous opinion. The work deal is a project with many measures to get people working, but above all to keep people working in conjunction with family life. That is very important and we must not delay. We Liberals expect a package of measures on Parliament's table in the short term, if it depends on us preferably before the summer recess. I hear that you will come up with a number of measures and I look forward to them. These measures represent a very important step towards modernising and making our labour market more flexible. This is in the interests of both workers and employers. After all, the market is on fire, there are a lot of vacancies. This deal can help to find solutions to this problem. So please make that quick.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u11	Mr President, Minister, with the rise in fuel prices, many workers today find themselves in very difficult financial situations. Some are even forced to sleep in their vehicles in order to limit the costs associated with their travel. Workers who are obliged to use their personal vehicle every day expect compensation for the exorbitant costs they face. You have recently released an envelope of €30 million to help them. The distribution of this envelope is currently in the hands of the social partners. Minister, could you provide an update on the needs of different sectors? We know that domestic aid is particularly affected by this increase in fuel prices. Which other sectors are the most affected?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u12	Mr President, Minister, I am making the same observation as my colleague. I therefore come directly to my questions, which are also related to the increase in fuel prices and to the difficulty of all workers who see their purchasing power diminish. Minister, have there been any further discussions within the government on the reform of the 1996 Act, which we believe is a key element in increasing purchasing power by making delegations free to negotiate? With regard to the emergency measure of the government, which has released an envelope of EUR 30 million, it would appear that there has been no agreement with the social partners. According to the FGTB, this envelope represents an aid of EUR 1.5 per month per worker, which is largely insufficient. Will you therefore plead to increase this envelope and for employers to contribute in the first place to cope with the increase in fuel prices through the reimbursement of transport? More generally, what other possible measures do you intend to put in place to improve the purchasing power of these same workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u13	Minister, the last few days everyone has been talking about purchasing power. You have proposed, on behalf of your party, a plan of 13 measures to strengthen purchasing power. I find it striking that that plan does not contain any measure that would in any way relate to activation, which I believe should be at the heart of the plan. Furthermore, on behalf of your party, you have put forward many proposals with enthusiasm, but as Minister and Deputy Prime Minister in the De Croo administration you still have not achieved anything after a year and a half of standstill. For example, you want a revision of the wage standard law, which should ensure that our wages do not rise faster than wages in our neighbouring countries, but basically you want to throw them in the trash. That's the last thing you should do. You also want to increase the social energy rate. This measure is already being paid in full by the working class, just by the workers with the lowest wages, who have become the most vulnerable of our society. I think it is a very bad idea to strengthen the extension of the social energy tariff at the cutting edge of the working people. I can go on for a while. Is this now the consultation culture of the De Croo government, at press conferences launching proposals from its own party, while you as Deputy Prime Minister are the axis of the government? Your party is the largest of the government parties and you have very important powers. You will have the bright idea of organising a press conference, rather than reaching an agreement with the government parties on the level of employment and labour market reform. How do you manage to table thirteen measures while ensuring that none of them relates to activation? What structural measures have the government already agreed on for a successful labour market policy? It's already five to twelve.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u14	The sharp rise in energy and fuel prices has a negative impact on the majority of workers. Mrs Thémont, it is difficult to identify sector by sector the workers most affected by the increase in fuel prices. In fact, within the same sector, the realities can be completely different depending on the decisions taken within a sector, within a company or even individually between employer and worker. Nevertheless, we find that the most affected workers are those who have to use their personal vehicles daily in order to travel from one mission to another, such as home nurses, family workers in the non-market sector or service voucher workers. Unfortunately, for several reasons, the Group of Ten has not been able to make joint proposals on the use of the EUR 30 million budget at its disposal. The government will now have to consider supporting the purchasing power of workers. As Minister of Economy and Work, I will, of course, make proposals which can then be discussed in the government. That does not mean that if I am a member of a government, if I am deputy prime minister of a government, I am also a politician who is a member of a political family and as such, it is entirely legitimate to make proposals which, moreover, do not all concern the federal level of power. Of the 13 proposals, some concerned the housing sector and thus the regional competence. I spoke alongside my party president as a member of the same party. I leave it to everyone, a member of a government or a member of the opposition, to be able to do so. Furthermore, as you know, there are measures in our proposals which are already applicable to energy, the reduction of VAT, the extended social tariff and which we are asking for to be sustained. That was said at this press conference, but it has also been said for several months now, within the government and on behalf of the government. As far as travel costs are concerned, which is a hot topic, I think, for example, that we need to encourage employers to pay more for work travel, and I am also convinced that when the worker incurs work expenses, he or she must always be able to be adequately paid. A minimum refund must therefore be provided. I hope that concrete measures can be decided and implemented quickly because time is running out for all the workers involved. When it comes to purchasing power, the question is obviously broader than the question of travel costs alone. Indeed, today we are facing an almost widespread increase in prices and this is a phenomenon that all the countries of Europe, and indeed the world, are currently experiencing. In the face of the worst inflationary crisis we have experienced in forty years, I think we cannot have taboos about the measures that can be taken to support purchasing power. Nor is there any question of putting on the table measures that would only worsen the situation. I stress, moreover, that all measures that support the purchasing power of workers are also positive for companies, because they support consumption. In fact, we saw between the first and second waves of the covid that it was domestic consumption, domestic private demand, that gave a strong boost to the economy. We must therefore take these elements into account and avoid a recession as much as possible. Some of the measures mentioned concern the 1996 law as amended in 2017, in particular the possibility of giving the social partners greater scope for wage bargaining, where there is room for negotiation. This is a matter of great concern to many workers, as demonstrated by the petition to your assembly. I am pleased that, at the instigation of this petition, the debate can take place in this Parliament. For the rest, the debate will take place within the government on purchasing power and taking into account the explosion in energy costs. We have done so in the past and the measures are still in place today. I am convinced that some should be strengthened, others extended and, for some of them, made structural. This debate will take place within the government and I have no doubt that we will reach an agreement, as in the course of the tax reform on company cars, INAMI numbers, trade jobs, arbeidsdeal and a whole range of other measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u15	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. This crisis severely affects those for whom the vehicle is the first working tool, particularly in the health care sector, but also in the home care sector. Purchasing power is at the heart of all discussions. I am counting on you to defend the citizens, as you have already done on several occasions, citizens who see each day a little bit more ragged in the face of rising prices. The gap is widening with the lowest-income citizens, who often consume the most fuel. Many have to choose between filling up and feeding. As you said, measures to promote purchasing power will soon be discussed in the government. In the group of ten, the unions have not submitted a proposal, so I am counting on you. I stress the work you have already done and the measures you have taken to promote purchasing power. I would also like to refer to the measures proposed, in particular those to encourage employers to increase the reimbursement of travel expenses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u16	Minister, I agree with you that increasing the purchasing power of workers has a positive impact on the economy. It is therefore against the thesis that wage increases are a problem. In our view, this is rather a solution, and that is why the unions are asking for a review of the 1996 Act, which was amended in 2017. There's also a lot of money in this country. According to this morning's radio, 94% of multinationals maintained their dividends and even saw them increase. With regard to this envelope, trade union organisations find it too small. They are right because, as I said earlier, it represents 1.5 euro per worker per month; to be compared with increases over the last year. Electricity is a 50% increase, gas is 140 % and diesel is 33 %. I understand that you are part of a government and that you are a politician at the same time, but I did not hear you clearly saying that this envelope should be increased. In any case, it continues to be said that several measures must be taken, but one could imagine, among other things, taking the fuel into account for the calculation of the index and considering the blocking of prices. Trade unions do not have any illusions about this. That is why, after the aperitif of 22 April, they organize the resistance dish on 20 June. We will already be at their side and we are calling on everyone to mobilize to go to Brussels on 20 June.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u17	As I said, Minister, I have no problem with you holding a press conference on behalf of your party, even if that is a tough press conference. However, I do have a problem with it if that is the only penalty you have come up with in the last year and a half. That's my criticism. As Deputy Prime Minister in this government and as Minister of Work, you are not being punished at all, quite the contrary. In this dossier, too, you transfer the hot potato to the social partners, because it appears that there is very little agreement within the government on exactly what you want to do together and how that should be done. That's what's avenging now. By the way, you did not reassure me at all with your answer. After all, the only signal you have sent again today when it comes to the wage standard is that you are apparently prepared to put the competitiveness of our companies at risk. That would cost us jobs. Specialists have already indicated that wage costs in this country will increase by 16% between 2020 and 2023, while in neighbouring countries this will be only 10%, which is also very high. This means that the labour cost handicap in our country is in danger of getting out of control again. On top of that, you are once again sending out the message that you do not see so many bones in it, because you want to see the standard wage law go down on your own. I have a very difficult time with that, because it will cost jobs and prosperity. Let it be just that what the people in this country need today, that their prosperity is guaranteed and their purchasing power strengthened.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u18	Minister, you had announced that workers taking care of a child or another person in the family would soon receive five days' paid leave a year. This should allow them, for example, to visit a child in hospital, to assist a family member in medical treatment or to help grandparents move to the home care centre. This is a right, but it must be notified in advance. The employment deal also states that the weekly timetables can be adjusted. Employers who do not grant birth leave or leave too little to co-parents or fathers can now also be sanctioned. Can you explain these new measures, Minister? What's the timing of that? What procedure will be followed? I also understood that the five days of care leave per sector should be completed. What modalities will the sector be able to decide on? The sector in which people work is important. Do these measures also apply to foster parents? This question has already been asked by several Members of Parliament. What progress has been made in implementing the NAR's advice to grant small amounts of support to foster parents?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u19	Mrs Vanrobaeys, my department has prepared a preliminary draft law, which partially transposes the work-life balance directive and this for workers employed under a contract of employment. It was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 29 April and is currently before the Data Protection Authority, the Advisory Council of Social Criminal Law and the Legislative Department of the Council of State for its opinion. Within the existing leave credit for imperative reasons, Article 30a of the Law of 3 July 1978 on employment contracts, a new scheme of care leave with its own framework is introduced. This care leave is completed by the law of 3 July 1978 itself and not by sector. The new scheme of care leave will allow the employee to be absent from work for a maximum of 5 days a year in order to provide personal care or support to a family member or family member who, for a serious medical reason, needs significant care or support. The King shall be given the possibility, by means of a decision submitted in the Council of Ministers, to grant a benefit for each day of care leave for which the worker is not entitled to pay within the existing arrangements of leave for compelling reasons. The preliminary draft law also lays down a new autonomous legal framework on flexible working arrangements. In concrete terms, under certain conditions, the right of the worker to apply for an adjustment to his working pattern is introduced, with a view to caring for a child up to the age of 12 or 21 years in children and young people with disabilities or personal care or support for a family member or family member who is in need of substantial care or support for a serious medical reason. For example, there may be a change in the timetable or the possibility of teleworking. On the other hand, the employer is required to respond appropriately to valid applications. The two new rights, care leave and flexible working arrangements, also apply in the case of foster care. In the meantime, my department has also drawn up a draft of KB, which responds to the wishes of the social partners, see the NAR opinion 2233 of 13 July 2021, to open up small-scale foster care.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u20	Minister, I am pleased that the law provides a framework of up to five days and that it does not depend on the sector in which one works. That's what I was worried about. The measures you are proposing will be a great relief and support for those who care, whether for the children or for someone else in the family, because everyone has something for in their family. It is an important step forward in reconciling work and family life and in providing care for the family. It is also a step forward that foster parents will also have the right to a little dereliction. We've been looking forward to that for a long time. However, I would like to mention a personal minus in relation to the implementation of the work-life balance directive. I would have liked birth leave to be granted under that directive to people on an interim contract. Such things simply happen, which is separate from the statute in which one works. In fact, in all cases one should have the right to take a breath and take the time to provide care. Whether that's for a new life or for someone who needs care, it's basically true.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u21	Mrs Vanrobaeys, I would like to confirm that you certainly have the right to call into question the policy pursued.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u22	Debates of the European Parliament 55027722C by Mrs Reuter and 55027937C by Mrs Jadin lapsed as they were absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u23	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u24	First of all, Mrs Lanjri, I would like to point out that the employment rate has increased considerably. For the corona crisis, the efficacy rate was 70.4%. Now that's 71.6 %. Despite the unprecedented crises, the employment rate has thus increased by 1.2 %. However, I am fully aware that there are still important challenges; there is still much to be done. In its report, the High Employment Council paid particular attention to the inactive in 2019. As the report shows, most of the policy levers are in the hands of the Regions and the Communities. They also belong to other policy areas than that of Work. A comparison between 2020 and 2021 based on Eurostat data provided by Statbel is difficult. The fact is that illness or disability is most common as a reason for inactivity. In order to improve the reintegration of long-term ill into the labour market, I work together with the social partners to adapt the rules. I share concerns about the high proportion of inactive people in non-EU countries. However, as I have already said, the possibilities in my policy area are rather limited. In the light of the fight against discrimination in the labour market and the strengthening of diversity, we have recently taken measures, including the improvement of the regulation on mystery calls and the response of sectors. In addition, the second Employment Conference in June will focus on the integration of people of non-EU origin into the labour market. It's a priority for me. As has been said repeatedly, I am prepared to support the Regions and Communities under federal policy, if they so request. There is regular contact with my colleagues in the Länder. I have already put some proposals on the table. I would like to stress once again that the policy for the activation of inactive people is largely outside my policy area. I'm still willing to cooperate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u25	Minister, you indicate that the employment rate has increased slightly in recent years. That is good news in itself, but much still needs to be done to get to 80 %. You say that the powers lie largely with the Länder. That's right. But if I were you, I wouldn't wait for you to get a question from the states. In the end, we are responsible. We are responsible for the costs associated with the number of inactive people. The costs of both those who are unemployed and receive unemployment benefits, as well as half a million long-term sick, are borne by the federal government. Fortunately, Minister Vandenbroucke and you meanwhile have a plan ready to re-activate the long-term sick. That is more than necessary, because we are seeing their numbers increase exponentially. It is the largest group that we need to activate, which means that we may or may not achieve an employment rate of 80%. I urge you to put the issue on the agenda of the IMC. The division of powers must of course be respected, but you can be more important, because we are jointly responsible for the results. We will therefore have to do more than wait. I hear one initiative has already been taken. The next employment conference will focus on one target group, the people of foreign origin. Whether it is European or non-European, I do not know. That is good, but concrete measures must also be taken for the other target groups, in cooperation with the Länder, of course. I hope there will be. I'll question you about it again soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u26	Mr Minister, the consultations in the service cheque sector have been dragging on for nine months and it has now jumped off again. The biggest break point is the relocation allowance for the household help, which now has to spend an average of 200 euros to drive from one family to another. They're supposed to make up for work. At the last consultation, employers proposed that the 0.4% increase, which are already peanuts, should be given up in exchange for a higher travel allowance. The saga continues. The big players in the sector say that they no longer want to conduct sectoral negotiations, but that they want to conduct them at company level, which would undermine solidarity within the sector. I refer to what was said about this in the Flemish Parliament. At the time of the negotiations, several questions were asked in the plenary session of the Flemish Parliament, at which Flemish Minister of Work called on you to appoint a social mediator to pull things off. Was that just posted there or were you informed? Has that question been officially asked? Will you respond to this or do you think that other initiatives are possible or necessary to correct social dialogue? With regard to the EUR 30 million budget earmarked to reduce the travel allowances for workers, such as domestic help, there is no agreement from the social partners. However, the demand is urgent for cleaning aid. Will you again impose a deadline on the social partners or will you make your own decision, so that the bill for the household help is lightened? If you were to make a decision, what would that be?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u27	Mr President, contrary to what some people are saying, there is indeed a social mediator working actively on the dossier. That mediator was able to bring the parties back to the table about ten days ago. You have also heard from the press that both banks are still holding on to their positions for the time being. Neither the mediator nor I can oblige the parties to reach an agreement. This is the responsibility of the social partners within the framework of labour law and within the regional rules on the system of service cheques. It is a good thing that the social partners were able to get back to the table after such a long period of suspension of the negotiations, but I do regret that they did not reach an agreement at this meeting triggered by the social conciliator. I hope and hope that agreement can be reached as soon as possible for the benefit of employees in the sector. Mrs Moscufo, as you know, the system of service securities is largely, if not entirely, regionalised, particularly as regards the conditions for the authorisation of service securities companies and the subsidies paid to them. So I'm not in a position to answer your last question. Wages and working conditions are subject to the autonomy of the social partners, provided of course that they respect the legal framework, be it federal at the level of labour law or be regional at the level of the conditions of authorisation and subsidy. Of course, I remain very sensitive to the legitimate claim of these workers, who are very generally workers, that their travel expenses will be better reimbursed in the future. I was able to answer just a few moments ago the question about the EUR 30 million package made available to the social partners and which I was able to obtain in the context of budgetary control. Of course, without the agreement of the social partners at inter-professional or sectoral level on the issue of travel costs, I will make a proposal to the government shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u28	Minister, the proposal for travel allowances for cleaning aid is really urgent. They no longer accept it, and rightly so. During the entire corona crisis, they continued to work, with a lot of safety and health risks. Moreover, they do very important work, which allows others to work. That must be respected and appreciated more. At the same time, I am satisfied when I hear that a social mediator is active. That is indeed all we can do. I regret, however, that it is always pointed at, while I think it is clearly a regional competence. So it is there that we need to think about how we want to see the sector grow further. Now the big players are holding everything back, also a correct and correct valuation of cleaning aids. Originally, it was intended to be a kind of social profit sector, where undeclared work was sought by means of subsidies and where they wanted to improve working conditions for cleaning aid. Now we just see that large multinationals are taking care of the opposite. I believe that subsidies and subsidies should be carefully examined in order to determine the future for this sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u29	Minister, thank you. I know we often repeat the same things around this sector, but I think it's really worth it. I have here the testimony of Sabine who receives 0.13 euro per kilometre to go from her home to her place of work, to go to her first client. She receives 0.15 euro to move from one house to another. That's 60 euros a month while it has to make two full, or 150 euros. It also denounces the fact that its sector is subsidized to the tune of 5 million and that besides that, it has 5 million profits, half of which goes to shareholders. What is disgusting in the last discussion with big companies is that they balance the 0.4% I had denounced as peanuts. You didn't take this royal decree to intervene at the level of public transport but to increase wages. This is federal jurisdiction and not regional authority. These companies are blocking on this point. I don't know what you need to do in practice. I've never been a minister, but at some point companies don't even respect that wage margin. So you have to intervene, without wanting to interfere in social dialogue. We cannot balance the 0.4% with the demands of the workers. That's not right! You have to enforce your agreement!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u30	Mr Minister, can you imagine that you will receive compliments on Friday at work and that you will be told on Monday that the company will close its doors? That's what the employees of the Turnhout candy factory Cloetta have been through. There are 115 jobs on the slope and two other establishments in Roosendaal will suffer the same fate. No one wants to hear such news, especially through a press release on the company's website. A union delegate said that his establishment at a staff party was still praised in heaven to hear the news of the announced closure in 2026 on Monday evening. The candy multinational is actually doing very well. Last year the company made a profit of 54 million euros and the shareholders were able to count on 27 million euros of dividends. A modern and well-run factory must therefore close because the board thinks it can generate even more profit in another place. With a single draw at the headquarters, a pack of families are at risk of losing their income. The Renault Act obliges the employer to inform employees about collective redundancies and to consider any proposals. That law was not respected in this case. What's your reaction to that? In the event of a breach of the Renault Act, the King may claim repayment of the State aid granted by the Federal Government to employers. Are you planning on doing that? The Renault Act was a step forward 20 years ago for a more humane dismissal policy. Is this law not now in need of enlargement and improvement? What do you think should be changed to change the law in order to prevent profitable companies from making mass redundancies?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u31	Mrs Daems, in the event of collective redundancies, the employer must carry out an information and consultation procedure with the employees' representatives and the company in advance. The Renault Act sanctions non-compliance with civil law, i.e. with regard to the employer-employee relationship, and with regard to criminal law. After the first commotion about the announcement of the closure in Turnhout and the construction of a new factory in the Netherlands, the employer indicated, so I was confirmed by the union, that he would soon start the Renault procedure. Yesterday, the trade unions called for this once again. I can inform you that my administration has just received the official announcement. It is important that the trade unions now have all the time and space to be informed about the management's plans and that an open and constructive consultation takes place, according to the correct procedure. Article 70 of the law to which you presumably refer has not existed for 20 years. Moreover, aid to companies, as you know, has become more and more a regional issue. Finally, my party is not against profit, but it is in favour of good and correct wage and working conditions and a fair distribution of prosperity. We are always putting these elements forward in our government work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for explaining your party programme.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. So here 115 people risk losing their jobs. Why should a profitable, productive factory close? To make a little more profit across the border. For the sake of clarity, we are not against profit, but we do believe that if profits are made by the employer or by the group to which the company belongs or dividends are distributed to the shareholders, there should be no authorisation for dismissal. It is not because the Renault Act will be applied after two weeks, that people will not have to fight to get something out of the fire.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u34	Mrs Daems, I would also like to thank you for explaining your party programme on profits.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u35	Mr Minister, as you know, the mobility of workers between the Regions in Belgium is a subject that is very mobilising us, and especially at the moment. We have already exchanged in this committee. For us, it is really important that we can encourage opportunities for Walloons, Walloons, Brusselsers, Brusselsers and Flemish people to move some tens of kilometres to find a job that suits them and allows them to emancipate. I am thinking particularly of the neighbouring regions: Hainaut and West Flanders; Brussels and Flemish Brabant, and even Brussels and the province of Antwerp. I think there are really opportunities. This is not a new debate, but there is indeed a real opportunity today. As we know, there are a lot of vacancies, especially in Flanders - more than 80,000, I think. I read the latest figures again this week. There are therefore possibilities, also for workers from Brussels or Wallonia, to work in Flanders. This would obviously be good for employment, since jobs would be created, and good for social security. Moreover, and this is also important to Ecolo-Groen, it would be good for living together in our country, for relations between the different Communities. In our exchange on this subject on 8 February, you mentioned several measures, including an inter-federal platform that was set up to deal with this issue, with an analysis of the technical and institutional feasibility of the various proposals put forward. It will also make recommendations to encourage mobility between regions and employment areas and to combat shortages in certain occupations. Minister, when will we be able to know the first recommendations of this platform? Will they be presented to Parliament? I know that this is a request I should make to the chairman of this committee. But I wanted to see if you had a timing with regard to the concrete recommendations that will be made. Minister, several other ministers, including Flemish regional ministers, have made proposals in relation to the mobility of workers between regions. I am thinking in particular of the CD&V group in the Flemish Parliament, which was talking about making the bonus job available also to Francophones who would come to work in Flanders. Have you discussed it? I know it's not in your skills, but have you discussed it? What do you think? This can be interesting. I think this should be targeted at people with low and medium wages. It may be interesting to encourage him. Finally, on an agreement that has been reached at the federal level, I also wanted to see what progress has been made in setting up the measure to grant long-term jobseekers starting to work in another Region 25% of their unemployment benefit for three months. Has this measure already been validated at the government level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u36	Member, thank you for your questions. In my view, the inter-federal platform, as I mentioned earlier in a broader debate, is intended to be structural. I believe that this is indeed a place of exchange and analysis, a place of cooperation between different employment-related administrations: regional administrations, Community administrations and, of course, federal administrations. The platform has already had the opportunity to provide an analysis on some issues such as the question of monitoring temporary unemployed people. We also look forward to the analysis of the platform on proposals to facilitate the volunteering of job seekers who wish to do so. I also hope that this platform will be able to promote cooperation agreements between the regions, since, as you know, the issues of worker mobility and the fight against jobs that are in short supply are subjects which are mostly of regional competence. I will support all initiatives that allow the Regions, and the federated entities in a broader way, to collaborate on these issues. This is really the purpose, purpose and role of this inter-federal platform: to foster and accelerate collaborations, exchanges between the various actors in employment, on both sides of the administrative and linguistic boundaries. As regards the bonus job and the proposals made, especially by the CD&V group in the Flemish Parliament, I am in the same vein. Everything that can promote the interregional mobility of job seekers is something that I welcome and look at in a positive and positive light. I would also remind you, and this was one of your questions, that at the federal level, I have proposed to allow long-term job seekers who are going to work in another Region or Community to retain 25% of their allowance for a period of three months. I was able to reach agreement and consensus within the government. The text of the royal decrees is currently being submitted to the opinion of the Legislative Section of the Council of State and, upon receipt of these opinions, I will not fail to have these royal decrees adopted, signed and published as soon as possible, in line with the logic we all pursue, namely to increase the employment rate on both sides of the administrative and linguistic boundaries, and to ensure that the aggregate employment rate at Belgian level continues to rise, in accordance with the commitments we have made in the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u37	Thank you, Minister. It is very good that this platform is structural, because continuous dialogue can only improve things on both sides of the linguistic border. Collaboration will bring concrete results. Some parties prefer that we divide ourselves, the Ecolo-Groen group is, like you, in a vision of collaboration: we are stronger together and solidarity. This is how we will achieve results rather than stigmatizing the other Community. I will ask the committee to hear this platform or its recommendations when they are ready. I think it would be interesting to talk to her and get to know the analyses. Concerning the bonus job, it is a debate that falls within the competence of Flanders, but which seems to me to be really interesting. We would rather favour a targeted version of this bonus job, which would encourage French-speaking jobseekers, in this case, to work in Flanders without being domiciled there. It deserves to be dug out. I have CD&V colleagues in the room, and I will ask them for their advice. I do not know whether there is a consensus at the level of the Flemish Government on this matter. For the rest, we will follow the application of the royal decrees for the other measures. This is really a very important subject at the moment, which has a series of positive axes. I will not fail to return and thank you again for your voluntarism.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u38	Mrs Thémont, as you know, the social partners are currently discussing the issue of harmonising and simplifying the various holidays. As soon as the National Labour Council has given its opinion, we will carefully consider their views. I hope that this will be a common and unanimous opinion of the social partners. Of course, I did not wait to work also on a more balanced distribution of the different types of leave between men and women. Thus, from the beginning of my term of office, I extended the birth leave for fathers and co-parents. I am also moving forward with the transposition of the work-life balance directive. The preliminary draft law aimed at partially transposing this directive was approved by the Council of Ministers on 29 April. This project aims to achieve greater equality between women and men by enabling workers with family responsibilities to more easily reconcile their working and private lives. It introduces a new carer's leave to take flexibly five days a year. It also allows workers to request a more flexible work arrangement. This project also provides better protection for workers against possible reprisals by their employers. This protection also covers workers employed under precarious contracts such as temporary work or successive fixed-term contracts. This should be such as to reassure Mrs Vanrobaeys. I am convinced that these measures will have a positive impact on women's participation in the labour market and therefore on gender equality in general. I have no doubt that we will come back to this issue when we transpose the directive and vote on the bill that will be submitted to you, but also on the occasion of the opinion that will be delivered, I hope, very soon by the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u39	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. I asked you when the government is going to move forward on the harmonization of leave, because it is often discussed in our committee. In particular, this is an opportunity to highlight the various advances, such as paternity leave, which I am still a little at the base of. As you said, the system of leave is crucial for equality between men and women as parents, but also in the professional setting. In my view, parental leave should be better paid to enable a real reconciliation between private and professional life, regardless of household income. Indeed, taking low or unpaid leave is not an option for many parents. In addition, work must be done on the accessibility of leave. I am thinking above all of the conditions for the eligibility of family leave. As you said, we are now waiting for the opinion of the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u40	Mr President, Minister, on 17 May I read on Knack Online that more employers have been using software to measure and monitor the productivity of their employees since the start of the corona pandemic. The European Commission has already carried out a study on this subject, showing that demand for surveillance software increased by 108 % in 2022 compared to the previous year. Of course, employers can control their employees, there is no doubt about that, but according to all kinds of agreements, regulations and collective agreements, this control must be targeted, strictly necessary and proportionate. Now 90% of this software is illegal and does not meet those legal requirements at all. If employees are aware that their privacy is being violated, they do not dare to complain. Eurofound says that perhaps this is the price that employees have to pay to be allowed to work telework. I find that a rather harsh statement, because it is not because employees do not dare to complain, that privacy may be violated or that privacy breaches are justified. Experts also argue that privacy violations lead to stress at work, a greater risk of burn-out and health problems, less job satisfaction and more tension between employees. Eventually, that leads to layoffs and a loss of staff. Minister, are you aware or are your services aware that monitoring software is taking off and that it is illegal software, which involves teleworking and hybrid work? Have you had any complaints about this? If so, how many? What action has been taken on this? Is the use of such software controlled by the Labour Inspectorate? What are the findings in this respect? The European Commission has also made some recommendations in its study, to which I have just referred. Do you have any knowledge of these recommendations? Are you going to work with this, or will you in any other way guarantee respect for the privacy of the employees and thus their well-being?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u41	Mrs Vanrobaeys, employers are allowed to monitor the electronic communication data of their employees if they guarantee privacy and the secret of letters. The conditions under which employers have access to the electronic communications of employees and the conditions under which the individualisation of such data is permitted are laid down in collective agreement No. 81 of 26 April 2002 on the protection of employees' privacy in relation to the control of electronic on-line communications data. Furthermore, the law of 30 July 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data applies. Employers must respect finality, proportionality and transparency principles. Cao No. 81 also lists the objectives for which the monitoring of data from electronic communications over the network is permitted. I am aware of this strange and often counterproductive tendency, which may have a negative impact on the well-being of workers, but we have very few figures on the use of such surveillance or software by employers. Between 2018 and 2020, 23 companies were examined under collective agreement No. 68 on camera surveillance at the workplace and collective agreement No. 81. Nine companies took the initiative during the inspection. The other investigations were carried out on request, one of which was carried out by the entrepreneur himself. 8 companies were warned. Five companies were merged. 7 companies regularized the situation. In the case of three undertakings, the provision of information and advice was sufficient. These investigations involved a total of 271 employees. I have the committee's recommendations analysed in order to determine whether initiatives should be taken to ensure the well-being of workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased that I already have a first look at a number of figures coming up. Cao No. 81 is close to my heart. After all, I wrote to it myself, hence my special interest. I find the trend in this article in Knack very worrying. I look forward to the analysis of your services and any further initiatives that will be taken. What I also consider important, and on which I have been calling for more than a year, is the collective framework of telework. It is not the only element in this, but it proves once again how necessary this framework is. Just like such agreements, the monitoring and measurement of work should be included. They must be able to happen in a proportionate way. I urge the social partners to shoulder their responsibilities there too and to review existing collective agreements and adapt them to the new developments.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u43	Minister, this is a problem you were going to take charge of. The last time, you did not respond specifically. That is why we have reintroduced the question. Mr Minister, we want to know where we stand with regard to the assimilation of periods of temporary unemployment in the calculation of holiday pecules. Do you eventually think about a legislative change to find a more structural solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u44	Madam Member, a decision on the assimilation of the temporary unemployment coronavirus of 2022 for the calculation of annual holidays is not yet urgent, since the calculation of pecules will take place only around April 2023. As you know, for the time being, the temporary coronavirus/war unemployment scheme in Ukraine runs until the end of September. This allows us to seriously analyze the situation since, as you know, assimilation has a significant budgetary impact for the ONVA as well as for employers of employees. The magnitude of this fiscal impact is linked to the use of temporary unemployment, which depends heavily on the health situation and the consequences of the war in Ukraine. I would also remind you that this year, ONVA has no reservations. This question is therefore of course important in budgetary terms as well. As in the years 2020 and 2021, a decision on assimilation and compensation will therefore be taken when sufficient data are available. As for a structural solution, I would remind you that the question actually arises temporarily, since when temporary unemployment ends, we can refer to collective labour agreements which assimilate temporary unemployment for economic reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u45	Minister, thank you. We found ourselves in the same situation last year, and we had to find a solution at the last minute to unlock it. That is also why we anticipate, so that you can find a solution and not find yourself in the same situation as last year. We understand that, in your opinion, you still have a little time. But we will remain vigilant about this, and also see how we can deal with the problem in a more structural way. I understand the budgetary issues. We need to consider how we can make money in sectors that have continued to make profits, or even increased their profits "thanks" to the health crisis and the war period. We will go back to that to ensure that the workers can have their dues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u46	Minister, on 4 May last, an agreement was reached within Vivaldi on the status of cultural workers. Which players in the sector are you going to consult with now? What change can we expect? Among the many criticisms of the sector is the lack of objective criteria for determining whether an activity is artistic. How do you respond to this criticism? One of the initial objectives of the reform was to facilitate access to status. But you have put in place a financial criterion for artistic income in the strict sense. Industry representatives do not see this as a more inclusive status. How many workers will be entitled to this status with this reform? There are also criticisms of the tightening of the conditions for renewal. Are you going to relax them? There was a request for strict supervision of the small compensation scheme. Why not have been more ambitious in this area? Workers have the opportunity to have recourse to the Arts Commission. This appeal can only take place in the form of an appeal, as there is no appeal against the Commission's decision. What is your position? 75 million have been provided for in this year's budget. This budget has not been used. What do you intend to do with it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u47	Thank you, Madam Member, for your question, which allows me to take stock of the reform under way. The texts implementing the first part of the reform of the status of arts workers were submitted for opinion to the Working in the Arts (WITA) Working Group, the National Labour Council and the State Council. The texts have also been posted online and everyone can consult them and make remarks. These texts are provisional and the Government will take into account the opinions expressed. To this end, a meeting with the WITA working group has already taken place with interesting comments and proposals to further improve the texts. As I have already indicated, both artists and technicians and the necessary support functions are included in the reform. Thus, the potential beneficiaries of what is known as the status of artist and which will tomorrow be the status of arts worker are being expanded. It will be the role of the 50 per cent commission of people from the arts sector to decide in concrete terms what activities and functions are involved. I can also reassure the sector that the current lists will serve as the basis for the new status. In other words, all activities that are currently recognized will give access to the future status unless the Commission decides otherwise by a 60% majority of its members. With regard to the amounts of benefits in the arts sector that have been added, the concern expressed is not to deprofessionalize the sector and to give more guidelines to the Commission's work. This also reassures those who are critical of the risk of discrimination. Indeed, these criteria ensure that people are in a different situation. The conditions for renewal are made more transparent. In the past, a worker who renewed his or her protection could still be excluded because he or she refused employment in another sector or because an employment agency felt that he or she was not looking for work sufficiently. It's over now. It should also be noted that the reform takes into account special situations such as seniority or maternity. The Commission will take a decision on the basis of a substantiated file. The Commission's case law will be used to establish a living and therefore evolving cadastre of recognized activities which open the right to certification. This cadastre will be public in order to strengthen legal certainty and all decisions will have to be justified. They may be subject to domestic remedies as well as to the labour courts. We have, I think, been ambitious in this reform as well as in the reform of the system of small allowances, while maintaining the flexibility of the tool and listening to representatives of sectoral federations, amateur arts federations and the opinion of the National Labour Council. We have therefore adapted the rules to avoid use for professional services. For example, the amount was limited to EUR 70 per benefit. This amount is lower than the lowest scale in the sector. The originator is held responsible for the registration, which makes it possible to exclude the originator after a finding of abuse. Digital recording also allows you to have a global view and avoid misuse in and out of the industry. It therefore allows for a priori verification and effective control by social inspectors a posteriori. We also put an end to an administrative procedure that involved requesting an artist's card. Working conditions will be discussed in the context of the second part of the reform – it is also an important element – and all ideas can be discussed, including social offices for artists or specific funds. In addition, the Communities are working on this subject within the framework of their competences. Madam Member, I continue to say that this is an ambitious reform that has not yet been completed, since the legislative and regulatory work is still under way, particularly in the context of the various consultations, but we have taken important steps. There are still some elements that need to be improved and clarified. That is what I am trying to do by the elements of the answer that I have just given you. Of course, consultations with industry representatives are under way and will continue in the coming months and weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u48	Mr Minister, of course we do not have the same judgment on reform at all. We are rather very worried, and so is the sector. We have contacted a lot of associations and trade union organisations, and we really think that this copy needs to be reviewed in more detail. We have doubts about the inclusiveness of the new statutes and regret the lack of clarity and the current rules. In our view, it is a missed opportunity not to act on the quality of employment through a public smart and on a real supervision of the persons subject to the Small Benefits (SNI) system. As regards the contribution of the major players to the financing of the social security sector, the sector expresses serious concerns that the reform will not facilitate administration, that the composition of the committee raises real questions, especially when it operates in a restricted chamber, and that there is still a lack of clarity and concern about the drawing up of the living cadastre that you have mentioned. Similarly, the sector is concerned about the precarisation - which leads to the doubling of the gap between copyright and unemployment benefits - and doubts about the greater ease of access for young people and the lack of measures to support women workers. Finally, there is also the problem of the stamp rule. We will of course come back to these matters, because we will not let go of the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u49	Minister, today more than 1,000 children are waiting for a host family in the context of foster care. The waiting lists are getting longer and the number of new foster parents cannot keep up with the growing demand. These children do not all need long-term care, in many cases they are a few days, weeks or months. For example, there is crisis care where children need shelter very quickly. They will then be placed in a crisis family. Often the foster children can return home or another shelter after a short time. In the case of emergency care, the foster parents must be ready at one time for the care of the child. Often they only have a few hours to prepare for the arrival of the child. Yesterday this happened to be in the news, but my question dates from before. It is therefore particularly difficult to combine crisis care with work. These parents are also not entitled to foster care leave, the six days a year that foster parents can use for very specific events related to foster care such as attending hearings with the judicial and administrative authorities, having contacts with natural parents and with the foster care service. Parents in crisis care play an important role for children who urgently need care. After all, they ensure that children do not end up in living groups or institutions. By supporting them better, crisis care may also become more feasible for other families and helping the more than 1,000 children who are waiting for a foster home today. How do you view the opening up of foster care leave for foster parents in the context of crisis care? Are you thinking of extending the exhaustive list of events for which foster care leave may be used to include, for example, periods of education in the context of foster care? How do you feel about taking foster care leave in half a day? Attendance in court often takes only a few hours, which would suffice half a day's leave instead of a whole day. In this way, six days have been lost very quickly. Will you seek advice from the social partners on these aspects? The foster care organisations are asking to be able to play the ball quickly and have a flexible regime for those six days, so that one can be ready when the child is brought and this does not only serve for, for example, court hearings or similar situations. The framework is now far too strict.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u50	Mrs Lanjri, as you know, an employee who is a foster parent has the right to be absent from work to perform duties and duties related to the placement in his family of one or more persons entrusted with his care. The regulations list the different situations giving entitlement to leave, e.g. attending hearings, or having contact with the family or with placement services. In addition to these situations, placement services may also issue a certificate indicating why leave is necessary. It is therefore already possible to partially meet the needs of foster families, who often provide crucial support in urgent situations. The employee will be able to take long-term leave in the event of a long-term placement and take up to eight weeks of parental leave to take care of the child. As you know, I asked the social partners last year whether it was necessary to extend the rules on temporary leave to small families. In opinion 2233 the social partners were in favour of extending this type of leave to foster families as soon as possible. However, they pointed out that other changes would have to be made after the debate on simplification, harmonization and optimisation of the various leave systems. My department has drawn up a draft royal decree which responds to the desire of the social partners to open up little to foster care parents. So I will do this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is good that small indulgence is also open to foster parents. However, the current six-day leave is not sufficiently flexible. Now it is only possible to deviate from the list by means of a detour, i.e. a certificate of the location services. I think it would be better for you to extend that list, in consultation with the sector. I have spoken with Foster Care Flanders, which is the asking party itself to expand that very exhaustive list and, for example, to provide that people can record half a day. Why do people have to take a whole day when half a day is enough to go to court? Those are two adjustments you can make and you don't have to wait for. Finally, I would like to say that the other thing you are referring to is not parental leave, but foster parents' leave. I know it well because this was achieved in the previous legislature thanks to a bill by Kristien Van Vaerenbergh and myself. This is certainly an important step forward, but it does not solve the problem of crisis relief. The existing eight-week foster leave applies only to long-term foster care and not to a few days or weeks of crisis care. That's what it takes. Now many children are in the cold and I hope you will take those two elements and amend your letter. Ensure that flexibility, for example half a day is more than enough, and make sure that that list is not exhaustive and that it includes a number of things, such as the word 'crisis care'. The institutions and I myself will be very grateful to you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u52	"Recently, the SPF Emploi published a second survey of the situation of workers over 55 years of age. Comparing the data with the first 2018 report, we see a slight increase in career length, a later exit from the labour market, and an employment rate that is close to that of the youngest groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u53	Where are you in this project? What conclusions have you drawn so far? Do you already have a timetable for creating or strengthening these sectoral funds?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u54	As you know, the honourable Member, at last autumn's Employment Conference, it was, in particular, clear that it is impossible to overcome the difficulties of the end of the career without working upstream. The whole career needs to be reviewed and even more comprehensively, it is the whole life cycle of the worker that we need to analyse: career-long training, reconciliation of private life with working life, sustainable working conditions, etc. I have submitted an action plan to the social partners to invite them to take a decision on various measures that would allow both longer careers but also make work more feasible, so that older workers have the opportunity to continue working in good conditions, even if their skills and health conditions change. It was also clear from the conference that we must adapt the place, time or working conditions and anticipate these adaptations through a policy of prevention from the beginning of the career. The measure relating to penitibility funds would make it possible to finance general measures to reduce penitibility. The aim is, for example, the granting of additional days of leave, the collective reduction of working time, investment in tools for reconciling private and working life (child care). Of course, it will be up to the social partners to define freely the measures to be taken. The NTC's opinion on the overall plan is expected in June. The data mining project included in the Recovery and Resilience Plan began well on 1 January 2022 for a period of four years. The aim is to make available data to monitor changes in working conditions and to monitor risks at work. The first digital report is scheduled for the end of 2023 to the beginning of 2024. In particular, it will take into account the age dimension and the sectoral dimension in order to identify the groups and sectors most at risk. The description of the project is, if you wish, taken up on the website of the SPF Emploi.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u55	Indeed, I also think that this risk monitoring is crucial not only to make a diagnosis by locating problems, but also by analysing the causes. When do the causes arise in difficulties, in which department or department, for which categories of workers, in what areas? As you have said, it is certain that only a reflection on the fullness of careers will limit the impact on the length of work on older workers. I believe that prevention remains the key word. I see here that there is a series of catalogues of good intentions. I know you will implement them. I will, in any case, be attentive to the outcome of the case and will not fail to re-examine you in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u56	Minister, the different experiences of collective reduction of working time in different countries around the world show that the four-day week greatly improves the productivity and well-being of workers. Many associations also argue that the application of shorter full-time working hours can become an additional means in the fight for gender equality. The benefits of a collective reduction in working time can be numerous for both employees and employers. The Walloon FGTB and the Centre d'Education Populaire André Genot recently expressed themselves in this direction, demonstrating that the collective reduction in working time could be positive for all if capital and labour were rebalanced. Minister, when I asked you about this last October, you told me that an evaluation of the ONSS target group reduction was under way. What are the results of this evaluation? Is a change in incentives to undertake a collective reduction in working time at company level on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u57	Mrs Thémont, this is an important subject that you are following with great attention. Like you, I can only note that more and more countries and even sectors or companies recognize the importance of these measures to reduce working time. As you pointed out, we wanted to begin an analysis of the mechanisms that exist in our law, in consultation with the ONSS and its management committee. This analysis is still under way. In order to be able to make an informed decision, I also asked the Federal Office of the Plan to make an in-depth assessment and analysis of the plan. I hope to have the analyses of the NSSO and the Federal Summer Vacation Plan Office available in order to be able to carry out this evaluation after these.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am, of course, looking forward to this analysis. I will not fail to return to you. Having said that, I really think that the collective reduction in working time would make it possible to secure the financing of public services and social security to the extent that it would help to increase the number of people who contribute, but also to reduce the volume of unemployment benefits. In addition, since 2016, there have been more long-term patients than unemployed workers. The collective reduction in working time should, in any case, allow a number of workers to complete their careers more smoothly. Several possibilities should, in my view, be explored. Indeed, a thirty-two-hour week does not necessarily mean a four-day week. This could also mean a five-day week with reduced hours. I am thinking in particular of single-parent families.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u59	Minister, I refer to the written version of my question. This is a problem that you may have to resolve together with your colleague responsible for pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u60	Mrs Lanjri, I have not yet met the organisation concerned to talk about recognition as a heavy occupation. This issue is largely the responsibility of the Minister for Pensions and cannot therefore be separated from the debate on pension reform, which must be conducted in the government. I would like to stress once again that taking account of the gravity of certain functions or professions is essential for me. That is why I have proposed to the social partners an action plan with various measures to enable working conditions to be improved in order to achieve a harmonious end to working life. The action plan is the result of last year's Employment Conference and I expect an opinion from the social partners at the beginning of June. I obviously have regular contact with the Minister for Pensions on the subject. After all, it is important to pay sufficient attention to the gravity of the profession throughout the career to retirement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic794x.u61	Minister, I seem to have put my question just in time, as you will receive the advice next week. That's a good thing. I will certainly ask a follow-up question. However, I think it would be desirable for you and/or the Minister of Pensions to receive the organisation or at least send it a reply. After all, she asked for this in September last year, so she has already had some patience. I assume that you or your cabinet will be able to receive the representatives and consult them, all the more so because you will soon receive the advice.
