ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, hello. During the hearings on the topic of climate governance, we will be pleased to hear today from Ms Le Quéré, President of the High Council for Climate in France; Mr Born and Ms Misonne, co-sponsors of the synthesis report of 22 November 2018 on Belgian climate governance; Ms Ellegaard, Head of Mission at the Climate Change Department of the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment, in place of Mr Wittoeck, Head of the same department; Ms Thissen, Political Coordinator of the Climate Coalition. Welcome to everyone! Before I give the floor to our guests, I will take a few moments, if you may, to clarify our method, so that it is clear to everyone. Mrs Le Quéré, President of the High Climate Council, having indicated that she was available until 12.30 p.m., I suggest that you start the meeting with her hearing. His presentation will be followed by an exchange of views during which I will give the floor to the political groups in the order governed by the d'Hondt key in the House of Representatives. As time is short, I will ask that everyone respect his time and be limited to the questions to be asked of the speaker. Each group will have to meet a maximum intervention time of 1 minute 30. I'll try to make sure that everyone can speak out. After hearing the other speakers, members should observe a maximum time of 3 minutes 30.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am Corinne Le Quéré, President of the High Council for Climate. I'm a climatologist. I am also a member of the British Climate Change Committee, which I am going to talk to you about this morning. I'm here to talk to you about climate governance in France and the United Kingdom. First of all, in France, climate policy is very rich. It started in the '90s. It was formally born with the 2004 Climate Plan and was confirmed with its update in 2006 and 2010. All the iterations of the laws in France have led to stronger and more precise objectives. Greenhouse gas emissions that cause global warming have been declining in France since 2005. This is the case for 18 other countries around the world, including Belgium, which have been responding to global warming for a long time. In particular, it is important to note in France's climate policy the Climate Plan of 2017. It was the Plan that formalized the goal of carbon neutrality in 2050, which was put into law two years later, in 2019. The energy and climate law of 2019 is really the great climate law in France, which has specified the governance mechanisms to set the trajectory of greenhouse gases, the revision of carbon budgets every five years and the multi-annual programming of the associated energy. It should be noted that the law does not set the objectives, but it says how and when the objectives will be set. This 2019 law also established the High Council for Climate, an independent body that I chair. This body was set up by the President of the Republic one year before the law which made it sustainable. The High Council for Climate therefore enjoys high visibility because of the important political portage that gave rise to its creation. The main mission of the High Climate Council is to assess the government's climate strategy, in particular its compatibility with France's commitments under the Paris Agreement and to assess the strategy for its implementation. The High Council on Climate issues opinions and recommendations. He sheds light on the debates in a neutral way. It is therefore an independent body. As you can see in the diagram, it is not within the government but it is directly placed with the Prime Minister who should be able to present the cross-cutting character of steering the fight against global warming. As you can see, the High Council for Climate must issue a publication, an annual report on the assessment of the emission trajectory, whether there has been progress or not, in which sectors, on the implementation and effectiveness of national and local public policies. We are talking not only about reducing emissions, but also about reducing the carbon footprint, hence the emissions associated with imports, the development of carbon sinks – they are essential to achieving carbon neutrality – and also about developing adaptation measures. This annual report should include an analysis of the socio-economic and environmental impacts of climate policies. This report is submitted to the government, but the latter, according to the law, must respond to the report of the High Council for Climate Affairs before the Parliament, which must then take it. The High Climate Council is also required to issue a five-year opinion on the government's strategy, which is updated, as I have just indicated, every five years. This is the national framework for governance against global warming in France. With regard to the composition of the High Council for Climate, thirteen members, including myself, are appointed by decree for five years. They are chosen because of their multidisciplinary expertise in the field of climate. It includes climatologists, like myself, but also economists, agronomists, a geographer, a sociologist. These experts are not necessarily academic experts but can be experts in the implementation of climate measures at the private level. The independence of members is provided for by law. Members of the High Council shall not seek or receive any instruction from the Government or any other public or private person in the performance of their duties. In addition, they must send a statement of interest to the High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life. The High Climate Council bases its recommendations on analyses that are discussed in groups at monthly meetings to reach consensus on priorities and recommendations. The proceedings are published on the website of the High Council for Climate. Members may receive compensation for their appointment, the amount of which shall be determined by the Prime Minister. On the means at its disposal, the High Council for Climate is hosted by France Strategy, which is the Prime Minister's research institution. This institution provides administrative, information and communication support to the High Council for Climate. The High Council also has a separate budget of between half and one million euros per year, which allows it to have a team of seven people at present and to commission external studies. The current secretariat is growing and I believe that fifteen people are needed to carry out the work requested. To continue, clearly, the Regions have a strategic role in territorial planning in France. There are 18 Regions in France, of which 13 are on metropolitan territory and 5 are overseas. In the climate field, transfers of powers from the state to the regions are relatively recent. They were introduced in Grenelle 2 of 2010, which created a requirement for communities with more than 50,000 inhabitants to develop Territorial Climate Energy Plans (TEEPs). This policy was further developed in 2014 and 2015. It now focuses on what is known as regional planning, sustainable development and territorial equality schemes, the SRADDETs for those familiar with them. Within these regions, the regions pursue medium- and long-term objectives for mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions and adaptation to climate change. These territorial schemes set medium- and long-term targets for reducing greenhouse gases and adapting to climate change. They therefore have a very important strategic component. They are also documents that are integrative. They merge different planning documents, allow the construction of a path integrating mitigation, adaptation but also regional economic development. They are also prescriptive, i.e. they are necessary for local urbanization documents. The High Climate Council (HCC) shall monitor, as far as possible, regional specificities in terms of the sectoral distribution of greenhouse gases. It drew up an assessment of regional climate action, in particular with regard to the adoption or non-adoption of planning documents. The HCC has also made recommendations in terms of territorial adaptation governance to better articulate national and regional policies among themselves and increase skills. The government has now asked the HCC to evaluate the actions of local and regional authorities every three years. Territorial aspects are a critical point in terms of follow-up. Better reporting of local efforts through the implementation of common monitoring indicators would probably be relevant. In any event, it is not for the HCC to assess regionally the results of policies, because the work goes well beyond the capacity of the National Council that we are. I will now talk about the UK's climate governance. As I mentioned in my introduction, I chair the High Council for French Climate, but I have also been a member of the Climate Change Committee, the British Climate Council, for seven years now. The Council, and climate governance, beyond the climate councils of the two countries... Between France and the United Kingdom, there are many common aspects, but also quite notable differences. The most important is the framework law. In the United Kingdom, the framework law is called the Climate Change Act of 2008. This is the major law on global warming in 2008. In fact, it has changed very little since it was put in place. This law contains a long-term objective, as you see here, for the year 2050, with in parallel a risk study. At the UK level, climate policy has a real climate trajectory and governance for mitigation and climate governance for adaptation. There is therefore a target by 2050. There is also (slide 2) a long-term trajectory with carbon budgets. As in France, the level is prescribed every five years. There is a parallel for adaptation with the National Adaptation Programme, which needs to be established and reviewed on a regular basis. The 2008 Act requires the government to publish policies to achieve the objectives. The government really needs to state, when the targets have been put in place and carbon budgets are recommended, how it will achieve the goals. Finally, the 2008 Act established the Climate Change Committee, which monitors mitigation and adaptation policies. Compared to France, British policy differs in the following way. The framework law in the United Kingdom is very strong with a very important role for Parliament, while in France the law has evolved several times by strengthening over time. In the United Kingdom, there are specific opinions for Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. These opinions also follow up at the level of the governments of those countries. The British Climate Council recommends carbon targets and budgets while in France, the High Council for Climate gives advice but it is the government that chooses its carbon targets and budgets. In the United Kingdom, the Committee includes a separate committee on adaptation to global warming with specific competences. The last point that is also most important is that the UK Committee has much higher resources, about four times higher than those of the High Council for Climate in France. As I was telling you, France and the United Kingdom operate on carbon budgets for each five-year period and these budgets are set at least ten years in advance, and even twelve years in the United Kingdom. I now show you the experts of the Climate Change Committee in the United Kingdom of which I am a member. They are experts who are chosen for their expertise. They are not people who represent specific groups. There is an eight-person committee dealing with mitigation, and a five-person committee dealing with adaptation, which is supported by a secretariat composed of 25 permanent staff, but which, on a routine basis, exceeds a total of 35 staff, including trainees, etc. Another clarification, at the level of the United Kingdom, in the 2008 Global Warming Act, the Framework Law, is what the opinions should contain in a very specific way. In preparing carbon budgets and the 2050 target, the Committee must take into account developments in climate science in particular, IPCC reports, changes in international circumstances, the Paris Agreement and its developments at the annual COPs. It must also take into account the evolution of emissions in each sector, i.e. major emitters such as buildings, industry, transport, agriculture and electricity and waste generation. But it must take into account the impacts of these carbon and fiscal/economic budgets on energy security, poverty, competitiveness, air quality and health. The Climate Council of the United Kingdom and the Climate Act 2008 since they have long been in place have been the subject of external studies to study their effectiveness. The most important elements of this legislation are the following: this well-functioning law has created clear objectives and a transparent process that has increased public and private engagement. It includes legal obligations of some ministries that have brought climate issues up to the highest level of government. The fact that the targets are set 12 years in advance is a good balance between the need for policy development and the time it takes to do so. The objective of carbon neutrality is now simple and clear in the law. The committee, which offers independent data-based recommendations, can resolve certain political conflicts and strengthen governance. Finally, in recent years, at the international level, most countries committed to carbon neutrality in 2050 have set up a committee - a Climate Council - equivalent to the Climate Council in France, which is an independent scientific and technical council to support governments in the long term. These Councils play a strategic role in the implementation of climate action by providing their scientific expertise to guide, advise governments and assess objectives and commitments in a neutral manner. For example, 21 countries are grouped into this international network of High Climate Councils (HCCs). They are based on the principle of scientific rigour and evidence-based independence, take into account socio-economic aspects, engage impartially with stakeholders and support both adaptation, mitigation and fair transition. I'll stop here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u3	I am a Member of Parliament in Brussels. I am speaking on behalf of the Ecolo-Groen Group. I thank Mrs Le Quéré for her very interesting presentation to see what is happening in France and the United Kingdom. The High Council for Climate has been in existence for three years. Is that it? He produced three reports. What do you think are the strengths and weaknesses of this Council and the conditions for such a Council to make an effective contribution to climate policy? Contrary to what is being done in the United Kingdom, the High Climate Council can only react to emissions budgets set by the government and cannot itself make proposals. Does it seem important to you that a High Council for Climate be able to do so on its own initiative? In 2008 in France, the Quinet report developed the concept of carbon tutelary values, updated in 2019. The idea is to estimate the cost at one time T of one tonne of CO2 avoided by each climate action. This allows for the removal of dogmatic positions and helps to set the right political priorities with tangible, quantitative and objective elements, while not removing policy choices that would take into account other parameters such as societal acceptability of measures. Does the High Climate Council assess the tutelary value of carbon? What tools are available to measure the effectiveness of the measures taken or to be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u4	I thank Mrs Le Quéré for this very enlightening binational presentation. I will begin with a few questions about the receipt of the 2021 report, which contains six recommendations. What is your view of how these recommendations have been received and how they have been implemented? This allows me to bounce back on one point raised by Mrs Parmentier, concerning the difference between the Climate Change Committee in the United Kingdom and your role in the High Climate Council (HCC), one giving opinions and the other being able to impose more stringent measures. I would like to hear your views on these specific issues. Climate policy issues will of course involve several competences and different levels of power. You mentioned it for France, but this will be even more so in our country. This requires an integrated approach. If we have our federal specificities, the issue of integrating the climate challenge at national and regional level at the territorial level arises in our two countries. What follow-up has been given to the fifth recommendation of the 2021 report, namely the recommendation on the systematic integration of climate change adaptation into national and territorial policies? Finally, a period of about four months separated this publication from the beginning of COP26. To what extent did your report influence France's commitments made at COP26?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u5	I am a Member of the Brussels Parliament for the MR Group. Thank you very much to Mrs Le Quéré for her explanations. It is important to learn what is happening in other countries, so that we can learn from good practice, see what structures have been put in place, how decisions are made. In France, for example, with the articulation between the 18 Regions and the National Council. To return to Belgium and paraphrase my party president in an interview given this morning to the DH, federalism sometimes brings us more complexity and even problems to our fellow citizens. We will continue to advocate a hierarchy of norms and decision-making mechanisms for greater efficiency. We talked about burden sharing. An agreement on the allocation of climate efforts between the three regions of the country and the federal government was expected to be concluded before the Glasgow COP 26. We are already a few months later and no agreement has been reached. Negotiations resumed on 24 February and the members of the National Climate Commission met for the first time under the Flemish presidency. At this stage, there is no precise timetable. The aim would be to reach a political agreement later this year. We all agree that there is bad governance in this area, but what do you think are the solutions? What mistakes should not be repeated? What are the necessary conditions in terms of efficiency in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u6	Mrs Le Quéré, the benefits of such a permanent independent expert committee at national level, as in France, seem to me to be quite clear. How can we translate that into federal Belgium? At present, each policy level has its own bodies, each of which has knowledge of the climate problem. Some levels have set up an expert committee at their level to make the synthesis of knowledge at the level of policy. Others do not, which makes important gaps appear and makes evidence-based policy-making difficult. At national level there is no overview at all in Belgium. The various knowledge bodies reflect Belgium's institutional lasagna, which leads to duplication of work and significant gaps. This does not benefit an integrated national climate policy. How would you streamline this mess of knowledge institutions with a view to efficient and coordinated knowledge building by such a national permanently independent expert committee? What should change in the institutional landscape? Which existing bodies would better disappear or become involved in other bodies? Which new bodies do you think should join?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u7	Mr President, I chair the Energy and Climate Committee of the Federal Parliament. How do you manage the abundance of commissions and advice? I think you've taken a good position. Everyone takes care of the climate and wants to have a say in it. Is it still effective?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u8	Mr President, I am a regional member of the Brussels Parliament for the DéFI Group. My question... First of all, Mrs. Le Quéré, thank you very much for your explanations. That was very interesting. In your comparison between France and England, you have highlighted the involvement of Parliament, which is strong in England and which, if I understand correctly, does not exist in France, or is less, in any case. I think it is linked to the political regime of these two countries. I would have liked to have your opinion, because it seems to me that for policies that will bring about such important changes in life, in economic production, etc., the societal acceptability of the proposed measures requires public debate, and that the place of public debate in representative democracy is still Parliament. I would like to know if you had any recommendations on this matter or if you consider it not entirely useful or necessary, in addition to the existence of high-level climate advice. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u9	Thanks to all the groups for their brevity exercise. Mrs Le Quéré, you therefore have ten minutes to answer all the questions you have been asked. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u10	Thank you very much for these very rich questions. In terms of strengths and weaknesses, after three years of existence of the High Council for Climate, a lot of reports have been published. Indeed, we have published three annual reports and a fourth is under preparation. But we also published ten special reports. Most of them have been government referrals, for example on the assessment, on the carbon footprint, on the energy renovation of the building, which has enabled us to have a quite specific voice. At the strength level, the most important is the sharing of information at the Prime Minister's political level. We're really giving our reports to the Prime Minister who receives us. We have been received several times by several ministers who have listened to the content of our reports. This, in my opinion, has really brought climate policies out of the Ministry of the Environment – the ministry of ecological transition in France – and brought it back to the centre of the government. Of course, we would like climate policies to be as interdepartmental as possible. Indeed, governance really goes in that direction. Another strong point was the independence of the High Climate Council. We have a very strong public voice, but we want to be neutral. We are really separate from organizations such as NGOs that push a very specific side of climate policy. This independence allows us to have a voice that is actually perceived as separate. It is institutional, but independent at the same time. In terms of weaknesses, there is a lack of resources. At present, we are not able to put in place or make recommendations that are articulated at a level that is sufficiently precise to really guide the next steps in public policy. You will see in our reports that our recommendations are quite general, in terms of clarity, evaluation and funding. To really be useful to policy makers, we should have finer recommendations at the departmental level, and that depends entirely on resources. As we can see at the British level, with a secretariat of 25 to 35 people they really manage to make recommendations. You can read their thirty-page recommendations for each department separately. They are particularly useful in guiding the next steps. In order to respond to certain interventions in relation to our action, we in the High Council for Climate Affairs intervene in the second instance. We react, we give advice on carbon budgets. Carbon budgets as such are not recommended. For this reason the UK is in a better position because their Climate Change Committee is really doing extensive studies and this allows them to have a trajectory that has been established after a substantial commitment with stakeholders and independently from the government. However, at the French level, the policy is quite different. The High Climate Council only arrived three years ago. Today, in 2022, we have to look at the planning, the steering of the low carbon trajectory. And I do not think that it is essential for the High Council for Climate, that we are, to be the body that proposes budgets. I think the government is putting in place substantial work to develop a path to carbon neutrality with the commitment of stakeholders. This is done at the level of the government in France, at the level of the independent council in the United Kingdom, but given the starting point of France, it is more effective for the High Council for the Climate to bring the government's opinion and to look at the implementation and implementation of this trajectory than to do all the upstream work that is really very important and could easily cause delays of several years in the implementation of public policies in France. If Belgium does not have an independent council that has already carried out this work, I think we have to ask ourselves who is best placed to do it. On the other hand, at the level of strategy evaluation, it must really be an independent group. Has the government followed our recommendations? Partly, certainly. It's really very difficult to say. Is the government bouncing on the recommendations of the High Climate Council or is it directly implementing its trajectory to it? At the government level, many more departments can see ownership of climate issues. Following the government's response to the first and second annual reports of the High Climate Council, the government made a specific request to each individual ministry to put in place roadmaps, to appropriate carbon budgets, to say in fact how each of the ministries will achieve these carbon budgets. This is a step forward that can be directly related to our guidance and clarity recommendations. It's really worth noting. I really want to strengthen the weight we have today in the implementation. This implementation begins with planning. Who is responsible for which sector? Who is responsible for achieving carbon budgets? At the French level, it is clear that the whole government is taking ownership of climate issues. We're talking about the Ministry of Agriculture. We are talking about building ownership, building heating, and we are talking about financing low-carbon infrastructure, which is particularly important. The High Climate Council has self-satisfied for a report on COP26 where it was recommended that the government take over at international level, use its presidency of the European Union to put in place or really push climate policies at European level. In particular, the government has seized the carbon tax at the borders. The government must also seize in particular the decline of the European objective at country level. It's on the way. The role of the High Climate Council in this appropriation of the stakes cannot be said at the present time. At national versus regional level, the situation in Belgium is closer than that in the United Kingdom, which is composed of four countries which partly have their independence from Parliament. It is therefore the approach that could be the most transposable. Indeed, at the level of the United Kingdom, the National Council makes specific recommendations for each of the four countries which are, in fact, quite different. Northern Ireland has a very important agricultural sector. Scotland has a very important renewable potential. Wales, on the other hand, has very high industrial emissions. These countries do not have the same climate targets as national targets. A National Council at the level of Belgium could therefore make specific regional recommendations. On the other hand, France's current policies have a very important advantage. Indeed, there is really a regional ownership of the stakes for the regions that take over. There are notable differences between regions. Those who have seized climate policies can go very far in terms of demands made at the national level, in particular at the regional level. Finally, with regard to the level of Parliament's involvement, public debate is extremely important. Decisions are difficult to make. Some are brought by Parliament. Some are mentioned by the independent climate councils. These proposals need to be debated at Parliament level. The more climate policies are captured, the deeper these issues can be, and acceptable solutions can be found. The High Climate Council also recommended a deep engagement of the regions, the organization of debates at the regional level in addition to debates at the national level. Of course, regional approaches will be imperfect and compromised. But the more they have been developed at regional level with regional actors, the more likely they will be to be carried out to the end and to contribute to the achievement of regional and national objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u11	Thank you, Mrs Le Quéré, for your very dense presentation, for your efforts at synthesis and for your participation in today's hearings. I now give the floor to Mr Born and Mrs Misonne, co-authors of the synthesis report of 22 November 2018 on Belgian climate governance, for their presentation of up to 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the invitation. We will present you with a joint intervention. I am Delphine Misonne, a qualified researcher at the FNRS, a professor at the Université Saint-Louis Bruxelles. I will give the floor to my colleague, Professor Charles-Hubert Born of UC-Louvain. Is there a pilot on the plane?This is the title chosen by our colleague from the University of Namur, Xavier Thunis, in his commentary on the Klimaatzaak case published in the last issue of the legal journal Aménagement-Environnement. You know that Belgium was condemned for bad climate governance in June 2021. Is there a pilot on the plane?, It was in fact in substance already the conclusions of the dialogue on climate governance held in 2018 following a cycle of seminars that we had organized with the support of the SPF Climate and before the initiative of academic proposal of special climate law. Thus, dialogue was a moment of synthesis with also a relationship to the political world, to the stakeholders, which must be located in a context that is no longer that of 2022. It was in our mind to take the measure of what the Paris Agreement means: decarbonizing the economy, moving towards climate neutrality. This is a formidable, radical issue. Are we equipped enough to meet him? What would be the place of the legal dimension in this challenge? Who knows and what is Belgium's plan to meet this challenge? This is the observation of the analysis in 2018, even before France used a law and created a High Council for Climate. We were in a pre-stage of all these developments. For Belgium, we had found that, of course, much was already happening at the level of the federated entities, but there was a big problem in terms of common vision and coordination. We insisted on hard words to hear: slowness, bargaining, lack of transparency, paralysis, etc. You will notice that Mrs Le Quéré, who preceded us in the speech, did not speak the word burden sharing once. However, he occupies the entire political and media scene in Belgium on climate issues. The conclusion of our analysis was that there was a lack of an internal engine for climate governance at a time when there was not yet the recent developments on the European Union scene. We had therefore made various proposals inspired, of course, by the British model already known at the time: to try to propose a long-term vision through legislation, to organize accountability, to dare think of the idea of a hierarchy, to objectiveize, that is to say to depoliticize, but also to strengthen cooperation with proposals concerning the Constitution, the idea of an inter-federal law but also various elements intended to strengthen the inter-parliamentary dialogue and the presence, for example, of citizens through completely new assemblies. The result was an academic proposal for a special climate law in February 2019, which, according to us, set out what we called the "cap", the "boussole" and the "governor", a whole series of devices such as objectives, principles, an inter-federal climate agency, a committee of independent experts, a multi-level dialogue, etc. All these elements, in our view, enabled us to respond not only to the challenges of the Paris Agreement but also to the one which was to be laid down by a regulation which had just been adopted by the European Union at the time. This Regulation (EU) No 2018/1999 on the governance of the Energy and Climate Action Union required each of the Member States, including Belgium, to carry out a very intensive planning exercise, which would only become more and more acute in the future. You know the story. The Council of State, Legislation Section, took a decision on the proposal. He felt that different elements of a procedural or institutional nature could be adopted through a special law, such as the establishment of an independent committee of experts on climate. On the other hand, for the material definition of common objectives and principles, there was a problem of lack of a constitutional basis, in relation to – this is important, and my colleague will return to – objectives that were not, at the time, carried by the European Union, or principles that did not yet exist explicitly in European Union law. The context has changed. Now we have a principle of climate neutrality in European Union law. It was therefore proposed that the amendment of Article 7a of the Constitution, which deals with sustainable development, should be carried out: "The Federal State, the Communities and the Regions pursue the objectives of sustainable development in its various dimensions, taking into account solidarity between the generations." It should be added: "They cooperate in particular in an effective climate policy, in accordance with the objectives, principles and modalities laid down in a special law". This seems quite simple, from the outside, but yet this proposal did not receive the required two-thirds voting rate, and therefore was not adopted. In 2022, is the substance of our proposals still valid? Before dealing with this essential issue, I will make it clear that the context has changed on various aspects. Of course, climate change is becoming more and more visible and obvious. We have experienced this dramatic episode of flooding in Belgium, very recently. The state has been condemned for fault, not only for bad governance, bad coordination of climate action, but also for violating the fundamental rights of citizens, since that is what it is about: protecting people. In the meantime, regional or even Community frameworks have grown stronger, new legislation has emerged at the internal level. This is the same at European Union level; there is really an increase in the framework, not only with the Green Deal, and the Fit for 55 that you know, which imposes a colossal legislative project aimed at reducing emissions and adapting better to climate change, but a new EU/2021/1119 regulation has also been adopted, which is called the European climate law. This regulation sets the objective of climate neutrality in the marble of the law. We no longer have the choice to join it or not. We have to go. Other aspects are changing the context. The one, for example, of the health crisis, on which my colleague will come back in a few seconds. But I would also like to mention the progress of the dispute. Listen to me, because it's important. What do the supreme courts of other countries tell us? In many countries, litigation is moving ahead, and even in France, even though Mrs Le Quéré has not specified it, the Conseil d'État did not necessarily appreciate that the trajectory followed by France is not in line with the bill put forward by the legislator. It ordered France to do better, to adopt additional measures. In the Netherlands, the Dutch Court of Cassation has confirmed that the climate is a problem of fundamental rights if governance is not up to date. In Ireland, the Supreme Court says that a climate plan must be readable to any reasonable reader. The 629 pages of our own PNEC are not necessarily understandable to everyone. Very important, the German Constitutional Court has recalculated the German law itself because it postponed the effort to reduce emissions after 2030, on future generations. There was a disproportion in the effort required of future generations, which was a problem under the German Constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you. Another change since 2019 is the emergence of the covid crisis as it has made it possible to realize that we do not have a framework of public law of crisis. We note that Belgian public law – and it is the results of a large book that has just appeared – is not necessarily suitable for managing a crisis like this. Interesting lessons for the climate crisis have been highlighted:(1) First, the major role of the state. This omnipresence of the state has been observed in the management of the crisis. This seems obvious, but for the climate crisis this teaching is very important. The interlocking of skills was also complex. Nevertheless, solutions have been found. One of the obstacles was the fact that skills are largely exclusive. There is also this difficulty of finding an authority capable of deciding when the inability to reach an agreement leads to difficulties. This legal framework for urgency is lacking and is one of the conclusions of the scientists' work. 2° The central role of the cooperation bodies, and in particular of the Concertation Committee, has been seen daily in the media. 3° The major role of scientific expertise, but with its limitations and limitations. There is an interesting parallel between the covid crisis and the climate crisis from this point of view. What is the role of experts? The whole debate on this High Climate Council is very important, because the political dimension of science is undeniable. The neutrality of scientists is not always obvious and it was criticized during the covid crisis. 4° The recognition, by the Legislative Section of the Council of State in its opinion on the bill 'pandemia', of a concurrent competence of the federal that has allowed to adopt police measures and restrictions of important freedoms in the context of the emergency of the covid crisis. So we have indications, or even innovations – totally! – as to the interpretation of the respective constitutional powers of the federal and federated entities. I am thinking of the need for a legal basis to anticipate periods of climate change-related crisis – and here I am focusing on adaptation. The 2021 flood episode is part of the climate crisis and is absolutely comparable to such episodes as those we experienced during the covid crisis. Another conclusion is that there is also a tendency to avoid climate hazards in the face of more immediate emergencies. Here too, this is what emerges from the crisis in Ukraine. We are ready to return to fossil fuels and solutions that could threaten climate goals. In the face of all these changes, are our 2018 findings still relevant? From the point of view of governance, the following crucial points remain relevant. First of all, an inter-federal climate law remains indispensable. It is, first of all, a law of socio-economic orientation, which aims to protect citizens and which is a matter of public order. Again, a parallelism can be established with the covid crisis. The need to coordinate all existing legislative initiatives is also still imperative. Regional and Community climate laws exist in Belgium, but they are not coordinated. Let us remember that, in order to meet our international and European commitments, the Green Deal and the new European climate legislation will impose a drastic reduction of our emissions, which will be raised to -47% by 2030 compared to 1990 – it is in eight years! There is also a need for an early and coordinated response to the risks of extreme weather events. The example of the floods in 2021 illustrates that anything can happen. A fire in the Soignes Forest can also be triggered. There is also still the need to be able to decide on the most sensitive aspects of the climate transition in Federal Belgium. We talked about burden sharing. We believe that this is not a very positive approach to discussing the climate. Rather, we have the impression that, in the end, this requirement to reduce our emissions is an economic opportunity, which could lead to what could be called the "Brussels Agreement", if we had the ambition to reach a consensus. It is also important to find an inter-federal forum for discussion on the global climate transition project, in full transparency. That is what is still missing today. As for the possibilities for improving climate governance under constant law, this cooperation agreement remains. Where are we? We learn that he came back to the table recently, but when will it be concluded? Is there not a sense of urgency from this point of view, especially since our conviction in June 2021? With regard to the identification of a concurrent crisis jurisdiction observed in the context of the covid crisis, one might wonder whether this competence could not be recognized in climate matters, at least to prevent extreme climatic events that are unquestionably linked to public safety issues. The question of the location of the appropriate location for the anchoring of a High Council for Climate also remains. Where to place it, where to create it since the European climate law requires us to set up a High National Council? Why not think about solutions, such as a special "climate" chamber at the Court of Auditors which offers many guarantees in terms of independence and means? It would be interesting to think about it, and it also allows for control of the Regions and the Communities. Control here would also concern compliance with carbon budgets. Stimulating the interparliamentary dialogue is also fundamental: we are all here today and it is already excellent news to see that this dialogue continues. How can it be stimulated and connected to government decisions? The multi-level dialogue already required by the Climate Governance Regulation also remains to be initiated. General statements of the cross-sectoral climate could already be undertaken at national level: business federations, trade unions could already be convened under an inter-federal structure or the Concertation Committee to launch this dialogue. It's not launched yet! Financial and material encouragement of local government involvement in mitigation and adaptation remains equally urgent, as is seen in eastern Belgium. Finally, some prospects for reform. Of course under constant law, it is not certain that the governance problems we have identified will be solved. The opinion of the Legislative Section of the Council of State could be used to identify possible solutions, including the revision of article 7 bis of the Constitution. We believe that we must remain on the principle of an inter-federal climate law that would include objectives, principles, inter-federal and inter-parliamentary institutions, multi-level dialogue. This remains absolutely relevant. The vehicle of this inter-federal law must be determined: the approach by the special law accompanied by the revision of article 7 bis remains an option validated by the Council of State, but there are others that could be considered. Without prior revision of the Constitution, an extension of the alternative mechanism to Article 16, § 4 of the Special Law on Financing can be envisaged. One could imagine a kind of concurrent jurisdiction of crisis in favour of the federal that would allow it to decide in case of blockage likely to weaken Belgium in the framework of international negotiations...For example, two months before the Climate COPs when an agreement could not be reached, why not return to the federal one the possibility of unlocking and proposing clear commitments from Belgium in terms of emission reductions? There is also a need to establish a constitutional and legal framework for managing the climate emergency. This time, I'm talking about preventing and managing extreme climate crises. He was seen during the floods in 2021. To include the climate in the reflection on the future reform of the state is therefore absolutely indispensable, given the structural changes involved in the climate emergency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u14	A big thank you for this effort of synthesis!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u15	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm Elisabeth Ellegaard of the Federal Department of Climate Change of the FPS Health. I'm here to replace Peter Wittoeck, who you probably know. I will build on what has already been said, and I will present a state of affairs and a number of recommendations. Climate governance doesn't stop. The file's been dragging on for years. We have already received recommendations from the International Energy Agency and the OECD on climate governance since 2001. In the timeline, the number of opinions is increasing as time goes on. At European level, too, there are many recommendations from the European Commission within the framework of the European Semester and, more recently, the assessment of our National Climate and Energy Plan, which I will briefly explain. There are therefore recommendations at international level, at European level and at Belgian level. Here you can see an overview of the series of opinions of both the federal and regional advisory bodies, which have expressed their opinions together or not and which are reasonably critical. The messages are repeated and are becoming more and more thorough, and we are asking a number of questions. There is also the national dialogue that Delphine referred to and the ruling in the climate case, where facts and objectives are also on the table. For more than twenty years I have been active in the domain; I even get a chill from it, but where are we now? The lack of cooperation between the federal government and the regions is often repeated, despite the existence of a number of institutions. This leads to a very fragmented policy and decision-making process. We don't see any real evolution in that that would prove otherwise. There is also a lack of a political framework. In 2020, the Consultation Committee indicated that we want to pursue climate neutrality and that we need to subscribe to those objectives. But, how exactly does that happen together? Does it happen on the basis of a strategy split into other strategies? I can do better than that. There is also a lack of harmonisation and integration on an analytical level. They can do better, too. In particular, the European Commission has indicated this in its assessment. There is clearly a lack of transparency. Democratic control can also be improved. The parliamentary debate can be strengthened. Public consultations are carried out, but they are sometimes far from the content. There is therefore also a lack of effective participation in a common way. In the agreements, we often find ourselves in a common denominator which is lower than expected. The existing structures do show that they should allow decisions to be made in an effective way. I will now briefly quote two examples of recent developments, in particular in the context of the National Climate and Energy Plan 2021-2030. What's the plan like? There is an overarching text, drawn up by a steering committee consisting of the federal government and the regions. The plan was approved by the Consultative Committee, but as you can see, the plan consists of four separate plans, and the federal plan was not even approved. It was only taken note of in the government. The Commission was therefore very critical of it. The policy measures were not sufficiently described and do not allow us to calculate the expected impact. There was therefore a lack of integration and coherence between the different entity-specific plans. Synergies were not sufficiently exploited. The impact of the measures and the interaction between policies and objectives is totally absent. The plan should be updated by June 2023. In a nutshell, regarding the correct compliance with the governance regulation, some shortcomings have been identified both in terms of integration, common analysis and public participation. As regards the Burden Sharing, as Delphine Misonne said, the intention was already in 2020 to land an agreement before COP26. In 2021, we re-establish negotiations at ministerial level and hope to reach an agreement by the end of this year. What's on the shelf? What are these negotiations? This creates uncertainty, investment uncertainty, but above all, the question of how the proceeds from auctioning allowances should be distributed remains open. Since 2021, revenues from allowances have been held in a blocked account. It's huge sums of money. As part of the state reform, we had already indicated that we should reform and optimise the national climate committee. The right of substitution and the mechanism of response have already been discussed, but none of these provisions have been implemented. What are the possible solutions? We've heard a lot of them. Some key messages have been put forward in the context of the dialogue we have had. They're obviously ahead, but, as Delphine Misonne clearly said, what's the engine? Do we not need arbitration to make decision-making effective? What is the common long-term vision? Perhaps it would be easier to define the framework so that we can focus on its content, on its policies and its analysis and so that we can calculate its impact. Recommendations can be formulated with the help of an external body. Different formulas are possible. I suggest that at least that discussion should take place. A design of special climate law has been drawn up, so the ingredients are there. That draft contains certain principles and concrete proposals, already explained by Delphine Misonne. Here are the building blocks provided by the law. Again, the various objectives are clearly included, with a political body taking the decision, a body supported by an inter-federal agency. This will ensure that the different policies at sector level are properly coordinated and monitored and their impact calculated. The interparliamentary committee dialogue is suitable for finding political moments through annual climate days to conduct the democratic debate, but different formulas are possible. As far as the social debate is concerned, there are also different formulas, such as panel discussions. Let me briefly outline what we are aiming for at federal level, pending a general framework. Following the 2018 dialogue, which resulted in a legislative proposal, the National Climate Commission took the initiative to set up a Working Group on Governance, with the task of synthesising the proposals and opinions formulated by the various parliamentary assemblies, advisory councils and academics. That was a very educational exercise, which resulted in a synthesis report, in which we compile the proposals and analyze the advantages and disadvantages of the different slopes. It is very innovative that the lawyers of the various entities themselves have done the analysis and studied the legal instruments, mainly in terms of the advantages and disadvantages. We've appropriated that matter. It is well known, but the conclusion is that we have taken note of that synthesis report within the framework of the National Climate Commission. This was not published and there was no in-depth discussion on the various issues, but it was decided to amend the NKC's internal rules in the sense that cooperation between the Energy Consultation and the NKC should be strengthened by organising joint meetings and by joint written approval procedures. That is the situation today. Pending a better common governance framework, the federal government has nevertheless decided to strengthen the follow-up mechanism, in the sense that this should enable us to better follow up the federal measures. This means that several departments, government institutions and public companies were asked to make road maps, so-called feuilles des routes. In this way one succeeds in responsive them by determining what to do, when to do so and with what impact. There are 32 roadmaps available in seven policy areas. In addition, two roadmaps on transversal themes, in particular adaptation and climate governance. By 1 June 2022, several departments should prepare a progress report on the basis of the monitoring table. After the summer, a synthesis report will be published on the basis of the preliminary reports to take stock of progress in the federal measures. It will then be possible to examine the need for any adjustments to be made. The novelty is that this report will be made public. It is transparent and will be delivered to Parliament and to the various advisory bodies. The text also refers to the establishment of a panel of independent experts. This is not a permanent expert body as it exists in the United Kingdom and France. The experts are instructed to validate the methodology used in the impact studies for the additional reduction of 15 megatons of CO2 through the federal measures. That's more like a peer review with a focus on methodological issues. Towards transparency and a multi-level debate, we will organise climate tables with stakeholders in the second semester of this year, inviting the Regions to examine the measures and the state of play at sector level. There will also be an evaluation of how or not improvements can be made. It is an open reflection that should enable us to update the federal contribution. Then I come to my conclusion. Even though we find that there are ingredients and there is a will to improve things, we find that, when we look at the way the new plan would be updated, there is a lack of arbitration and political guidance to ensure better integration, with respect for everyone's powers. There can be a planned approach, which can enable us to facilitate the policy cycle. What we are doing now, we must do again within five years. Let us work together on it and make clear agreements. Similarly, in terms of analytical capacity, everything should be better coordinated and cooperation strengthened, provided that the necessary financial resources are made available, a problem facing each country. I have explained participation and transparency. The following has not been much discussed, but has also to be discussed. What if one of the entities fails to fulfil its share? What is the compliance mechanism? That is, of course, also an exciting debate, which is also quite clear as soon as possible. That's it in a nutshell. Of course, there are many more ingredients that I could explain, including in the context of the Fit For 55 Package and the representation of Belgium at European level. This often remains a point of contention, which must be eliminated.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am in charge of climate justice research at CNCD-11.11.11 and, in particular, co-coordinator of the Climate Coalition. It is in this last capacity that I intervene today. Before I begin my presentation, I would like to make two small forewords. The first foreword, which has already been mentioned, is a request, both to this House and to the people who follow us online, to integrate into the reflections, debates and conclusions that may follow this hearing, a real long-term vision. This may seem paradoxical in view of the urgency of the situation and the diplomatic and political reality which consists of fairly short mandates and is played from legislature to legislature, but it is now a matter of developing methods, processes and changes of governance that must be seen at the scale 2050, or even 2100. These are methods for future generations. Although we need to take immediate and very urgent decisions, I ask you to object to the potential decisions following these different auditions and debates, in order to adopt a lasting mechanism that must not be reviewed in five or ten years' time, but that can lead us on the long-term path of the Paris Agreement. My second foreword is a thank you, which has already been raised several times. I would like to thank you for bringing this dialogue to life, to perpetuate it, to formalise it and to put energy, despite your other tasks as parliamentarians, in this desire to act in an inter-federal way on the climate. This gives me the energy to think that climate governance is better and that there is political will to do so. The Climate Coalition is a national ASBL that brings together more than 90 organisations to date, all involved in climate justice in Belgium, and each in their own way. It is characterized by a certain diversity, bringing together environmental NGOs, development cooperation such as the CNDC-11.11.11, but also trade unions and, recently, the five mutuals, youth councils and citizen movements. The ASBL has national coordination, a particular fact in a country like ours. Some NGOs therefore focus on different regional policies, others on the federal level, but together we make recommendations and priorities for all levels of power in Belgium. This is also where our specificity lies in the climate debate. The ASBL has been in existence for 12 years. We therefore have some experience in this area and have been able to observe the evolution of the climate debate in Belgium. The three main missions of the ASBL are to make political advocacy, citizen mobilization and networking. I am not going to dwell too much on this slide, given that Mrs Ellegaard has explained very well the findings of the practice of this climate malgovernance. I might say there are several Burden Sharing sagas. Today, we know about the burden sharing 2030. It was exactly the same if not worse for the previous burden sharing or effort sharing, we should say now. It took eight years to conclude this cooperation agreement earlier. So you can see that the recommendations proposed today have been valid for a long time. I will also refer to a topical point in relation to the PNEC. You have also seen that this National Energy-Climate Plan is largely insufficient, both in terms of ambition and in terms of the form and integration of the various plans. The methodology of this PNEC is currently under discussion. It is important, as parliamentarians, that you also take an interest in the procedure behind this PNEC, in the drafting process of this PNEC, because here too, beyond knowing what it will contain, it is the way in which we are going to draft it that is the key. This has also been addressed by previous speakers, but I would like to stress one or the other principle that is considered to be missing in climate governance today in Belgium. First, there is the principle of mutuality. We didn't make it up. It is the result of a report of the Senate dated 2017. This principle of mutuality means that the different entities can pay attention to the actions they take in relation to the actions that the other entities will carry out and thus have a rather positive principle in order to strengthen each other and not prejudice the competences of others. In fact, it is an idea of national solidarity. Intergenerational solidarity is also extremely important, as I said. What we decide today and what we are going to do is also and above all for future generations. It is therefore essential to include them in today's reflections with perhaps more practical principles such as objectivation, transparency, accountability and structural dialogue and democratisation - I will return to that. If a first clear request or recommendation is to be made on behalf of the Climate Coalition, it is the need to legislate. This was also addressed by previous speakers. I am not going to rule today on the type of legal vehicle. We heard there were several options. Rather, I would ask myself: why should we legislate? What are the advantages? What are the conditions for good climate legislation? The benefits are a long-term anchoring of commitments and therefore not the possibility of systematically reverting to what has been decided but of endorsing a clear course, which also gives a clear understanding and statement of intent to other actors than the political world. Of course, there are parliamentarians, ministers, cabinets, but there is also everyone around outside these hemicycles who also needs to have a clear course. I am thinking of the economic sectors and civil society which also need to have confidence in the direction in which Belgium will go in relation to this transition. In particular, a law would make it possible to put this in place. Secondly, a law would also make it possible to integrate the climate issue in a cross-cutting way. It is being put in place at the federal level, but it is something that needs to be implemented at all levels of power. The climate can no longer be treated in silo by the people who have it in their skills, but by all those who have one or the other competence in their leadership. Moreover, this cross-cutting approach enables all institutions and political bodies to be professionalised so that they can be effective on the climate issue with respect for their own competences. To sum up, there is a need for a framework that combines short-term objectives with very rapid and effective measures, with a long-term perspective that allows the involvement and collaboration of a wide range of actors. I would like to draw attention to the fact that when it comes to climate legislation, it is neither dogmatic nor ideological nor even farfetched. This is becoming increasingly common, particularly as a result of the adoption of the Paris Agreement and the acceleration at European level. We see climate laws all over the world, especially in the European Union but also elsewhere. It is therefore important to know that it is a framework that is becoming increasingly common and that allows many states to respond to the climate emergency, each in its context and specificities. I would also like to return to another point of attention which was raised by Mr Bruyninckx at the previous hearing. In Belgium, there is a great deal of legislation. That's not the point. The question is how to bring about coherence and a common vision of the different legislations put in place. We have far more policies and measures than the majority of countries in the European Union, but that does not make us a country equipped to deal with the climate emergency. Another way of saying this is that we are based on a minimum framework at this stage. We have a lot of policies and measures, but we have no national framework that links us on climate issues. You can see on this slide, the gradation of the formalisms that exist in European countries and you see that we are at the top of the picture, that is, we have the smallest framework, the smallest possible formalism in our climate policies. We rely solely on what the European Union and the international level are asking us to do. We are therefore really operating at a minimum and we are absolutely not equipped and equipped to anticipate these demands, knowing that the European Union – as has been said – is moving forward more and more quickly, whether through its governance regulation, the European law, the future regulation on enforcement efforts. All this will require States to submit more and more plans, to review them more quickly and to report to the European Commission. There is no point in financial or ambition terms in slowing down and dragging the leg on that level. In terms of the advantages and conditions of climate legislation, we have structured this by asking ourselves questions: what makes a good law, legislation, climate act? At this point, we can call him whatever we want. We have to ask ourselves the question of where we want to go and what we want. That is the point of the objectives. It is necessary to be able to adopt objectives, to endorse them clearly, to encrypt them ideally and already to think of a mechanism of revision knowing that the trajectories are changing as well as the urgency. How will these goals be achieved? This is the part of planning and policies and measures that are essential to detail. Are we on the right track? To provide for mechanisms of annual minimum reporting, made public, linked to budgetary processes because, very often, when it is disconnected, one may have in the end very good recommendations, if there is no money to implement and follow them, it is not very useful. So, who does what? This is the subject of the follow-up to my presentation and I will not dwell on it because you know that in Belgium this is a little bit of the problem. Who's involved? Two main aspects have been identified and have already been discussed earlier: on the one hand, objectivation through an independent body and on the other hand, the involvement of the citizen and therefore mechanisms of participation. Finally, all these instruments must align themselves, as said at the beginning of the intervention, with a long-term vision. Another way to show it to you: in drawing! We're talking about an ecosystem. In my view, this is what the special climate law wanted to answer: the establishment of a balanced system between these different questions in order to be able, with all its components, to respond to the climate emergency. I'm moving on to the proposals stage. Today we put a toolbox on the table. We have collectively considered responding to the various missing principles and submitting a series of proposals. I think that now your role as parliamentarians is to appropriate these different objectives and principles and see what is most effective in terms of climate governance for all regions and the federal government. In a non-exhaustive way: in terms of accountability and accountability, it is clear – and Elisabeth said it at the end of the intervention – that at the moment we do not know how to resolve conflicts, how to do when an entity is not ambitious enough, when there are disagreements? All this is left to blur and constant improvisation, and we see it very well in the saga burden sharing. The National Climate Commission, despite its mandate, despite the reform of the state, remains today a body that is not politically responsible. It is very difficult to hold a body so opaque and little invested by the various political representatives to account. The general opacity around decision-making generally does not allow for the right people to be found and put pressure on them either. In conclusion, we need to divide the power of negotiation and discussion – of a more technical nature – of the power of decision-making and political arbitration. This is a little what happens in the COPs, for those following them. In the first week, experts and negotiators look at the commas of the texts and tear their hair out in a UN language up to no time. And then the ministers show up in a band and decide. It is caricatural, but it is sometimes necessary to split the two steps in order to obtain fluidity and, above all, transparency in decision-making processes. On the one hand, we could rethink how the National Commission is designed and, above all, how it interacts with the enlarged Interministerial Conference on the Environment – this is not invented! – and the consultation committee. On the other hand, and this is a fashionable proposal, we could think about a Codeco Climate. It should be noted that this practice already exists. This would be tantamount to improving and endorsing the cooperation agreement to marry it with practice and adapt it to make it more effective. With regard to the Committee of Independent Experts, this was also widely commented on. So I will not dwell on it, but two parts have to be asked to make this committee something effective, not an empty shell. On the one hand, it is its format; on the other, it is its mandate. These two issues need to be studied with caution, to be sure that the proposal meets the requirements of good climate legislation. We must also ask ourselves who in the Belgian landscape and what already exists. All these questions must be asked, but none of them seems insurmountable to me. We only need to ensure that we make the right choices and pay attention to the cross-cutting issue. It is of great importance to us that, in the mandate of the future Committee of Experts, a policy evaluation should be planned, as Mrs Le Quéré put it. This committee, with complete independence and withdrawal from the political scene, must be able to objectify what is happening and what is decided. This is one of the biggest gaps today. This committee must interact with political life, contrary to what the Centre of Climate Excellence currently provides. This is an idea, but it is a consortium of academics that will undertake in-depth research. This is going to be totally disconnected from political life and does not meet for us the demands of a committee of independent experts. The issue of structural dialogue with citizens has already been addressed. We see several options, either something rather similar to the Citizens' Convention for Climate which took place in France or now the citizens' panel in the Walloon Region or then squarely integrate the citizen into the bodies and parliamentary work that already exist. These are two ways to study. But the place of the citizen is recognized as a principle even in the Paris agreement. Citizen participation is not just something that we add to make pretty at the end. This is an essential principle of climate policy. Therefore, for us, this must be an integral part and a fundamental pillar of future legislation. Institutionalize the CPID. I already threw flowers at you. Thanks again for being here! It is really important, on the one hand, to perpetuate and formalize what exists – it is not too complicated – and, on the other hand, to strengthen the role of this Dialogue. I imagine that this requires resources given the occupation and tasks of each and every one but in all the tools that are proposed in parallel, this Dialogue systematically returns as the key body that could have a fundamental role, whether it be with the committee of independent experts to present the reports, whether it be for the discussion and inquiry of the ministers of the National Climate Commission – if we keep this commission – etc. It has a fundamental role. And in our view, there is a fertile soil to continue to work with and strengthen this Dialogue. With regard to transparency, which is obviously a stumbling block in climate governance, we do not know what is happening, we do not know who decides, we do not know who blocks. Sometimes it's by a Twitter hit, sometimes by a media hit. But there is no democratic vision, whether on the part of the citizen or Parliament, to follow climate policy in Belgium. In this regard, we have identified two major levers. First, either the 2002 cooperation agreement establishing the National Climate Commission – many things are planned but not implemented – or it is revised – is still in 2002. Second, climate day had also been identified. Determine an annual time for reporting, discussions on climate objectives and trajectories. This is an option that was also in the special law. I am not going to detail this ugly picture, but I wanted to show you that there is a list of very clear articles that exist in this cooperation agreement that could simply be applied. We're turning to you, parliamentarians. Why not question the various ministers and understand why all these articles are not being implemented? There is also a whole series of thoughts to have in order to improve this cooperation agreement, which dates back well before the Paris Agreement, to the European regulation: to redefine the mandate and objectives, to have obligations for results, to have a clear work agenda, to increase the frequency of meetings, etc. Many things are to be done, but nothing is insurmountable. All you have to do is will. In conclusion, all the observations that were made in 2018 and 2019 are still true and they are even more topical. It is therefore really urgent to take the necessary measures to equip Belgium, in the short term, with a long-term perspective in the fight against climate change. This must be seen as an opportunity to democratize the debate on the transition, to make citizen participation real. Indeed, a great deal of action will have to be taken to achieve climate neutrality. They must be politically seated. They must be accepted by the population. What better than having a healthy democratic debate, a transparent system to advance collectively on the climate issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u17	Mrs Thissen, thank you for your presentation. Colleagues, as far as the continuation of our work is concerned, there will be a meeting of the group leaders, in principle on 26 or 27 April. We're dealing with the latest practical problems. I now propose that you turn to questions and comments. I repeat that each group has a speaking time of 3 minutes 30. I will then give the floor to the various speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u18	Mr President, if my colleagues allow, I would like to be able to speak now because I have to attend a seminar in which I have to speak. I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. All these interventions were particularly interesting. In Belgium there is a problem of structure, consultation and a problem of attitude and willingness to cooperate. This is an extremely important subject, but one where we need to learn to collaborate better. It is not only the structure, but also the intention that may be exacerbated by the fact that we do not have a hierarchical pattern in the structure in case we fail to do so by working together. For the rest, I'm just looking at it as an entrepreneur. There can never be a good policy based on legal procedures. It is about cooperation, clear policy intentions and implementation capacity. My question is therefore very specific. If we create a new structure, which one would we abolish? Shouldn't we look at the climate challenge with a little more maturity in relation to the other major challenges such as security of energy supply, our economic system and security? So I fully support the actions that are taking place, but I wonder if there is no overkill of enthusiasm with an underperformance in terms of effectiveness of decision-making processes and implementation capacity. I look forward to the reactions. I also believe that we, as a Parliament, can play an important role in this interparliamentary dialogue, as we have done with a number of Members from a broad coalition in Glasgow. I also look forward to the next talks that we will have between delegation leaders in order to present them to the next dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u20	Mr President, I would also like to thank all the speakers we have just listened to. We have a few questions. It's a little broad, I apologize in advance. What are the limits of the cooperation agreement of 14 November 2002 which still organises climate governance in Belgium today? Specifically, the CNC is responsible for preparing an annual report on its activities. Is this annual report well respected? Who has access to this report? The CNC must meet at least twice a year. Is this really enough to have a rigorous and regular monitoring of Belgian climate policy? The cooperation agreement specifies that the CNC makes the information obtained on the basis of regional and federal initiatives available to the Regions, the federal government or other bodies and, finally, to natural or legal persons who so request. Are the transparency and publicity of this work sufficiently implemented? In its analysis of various opinions received, the CNC Governance Working Group considered that the fact that our country does not have a centre of knowledge and expertise that is capable of providing objective and quantitative data to the various Belgian authorities should be nuanced, because the reports that are provided contain many quantitative data, and that at regional level, committees of experts have already been set up; and that, moreover, an agreement has been reached on the Climate Knowledge Centre; and that Zakia Khattabi has launched the idea of setting up an equivalent of the OCAM for climate, which would aim at all times to have an updated and adequate risk analysis based on the analysis of the challenges and weaknesses of our country. What would be the added value for you of a committee of experts at national level? How can committees at different levels be prevented from doing redundant work? The Senate's report on governance advises that certain technical decisions, such as allocation keys, be automated to avoid ongoing negotiations. This would include defining the objectives to be achieved by entity (the different regions, the federal government) and distributing the means available, such as ETS revenues. Do you have any other examples of decisions that could be automated? In conclusion, this has been seen in other countries such as Denmark, Sweden, Finland or Germany, climate policy is better defined, clearer and more legible than in Belgium. Looking at commonalities, there is a climate law, intermediate targets for 2030, targets for 2050 and an independent Climate Council. Clearly, two elements are missing to structure Belgium's climate policy: a climate law that would integrate our climate trajectory and an independent body, a Climate Council. The ecologist family is ready to reflect on these elements in this assembly in an open and constructive spirit. It is our responsibility as parliamentarians to reflect on guidelines and recommendations aimed at improving Belgian climate governance. That's what we're doing here. We call on the other groups to continue the work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u21	It is now the turn of the PS group with Mr Casier.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u22	Thank you, Mr President, I am a Member of the Brussels Parliament for the PS Group. I thank the three organizations that made presentations. We know the marasm in which we are plunged, but recapture it from face to face is always a little brutal. And above all, take the measure that all this has been known for a long time. Born and Thissen, your presentation was exciting because it recalled the history of 2018, this anticipation of French politics that had been evoked before. And today is probably worse than at that time. We know why, and it's not that simple. It's not enough to be incantated. My feeling, after these presentations, is that we are not in the technical questions, which have already been marked. I would also like to thank you, Mr Born, for the last slide on the issues of the current law and the legislative developments. In fact, it seems to me that things are clear. I have received answers to my technical questions in your presentations. I would just like to join Mrs Parmentier in her questions about the CNC. Mrs Thissen and Mr Born, as you have talked less about it than the others, I wanted to know your opinion on the governance, the stakes, the effectiveness of this body. We have also discussed this interparliamentary dialogue in the context of previous work and the white card of parliamentarians. We have no parliamentary power here, no power to summon ministers, no obligation to answer our questions, either from Mrs Khattabi to the federal government or from regional ministers of the environment. How could an interparliamentary body like this be legally entrusted with a real task, such as a commission? What are the stakes behind this? Are they constitutional or regulatory in the Parliaments? I think it's still an important issue. Mrs. Ellegaard, your first slide was perfect, with a nutshell summary of the situation. But again, it understands everything, it translates differently what other actors have said, and the fact that, in this context, the challenge is not so much to produce more data or to have more information, but to frame them and organize them in a procedure. That's very clear. I am also very impressed in your speeches, and that is, I think, what we are also living as parliamentarians, with little transparency in these processes – of course, citizens, but even parliamentarians. I'm not bringing a case here to one minister more than to another. But actually, not even on the issues of burden sharing, to resume this debate, even if it is a bad entry into the process. In fact, it's very complicated for us to know exactly what's being discussed, what's getting stuck, and what's getting stuck. And this is a real major democratic problem. Here too, I don't know if it's something...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u23	Thanks for finishing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u24	Yeah, I'm finishing. If it is something that is integrable in an existing body, or if it absolutely requires the establishment of a new body. On this point, I just wanted to agree with what Mr Leysen said about: "Things, but if it's adding layers, it's probably not relevant." How do you see the organization of these elements? As far as the expert bodies are concerned, I think that this has been largely answered in your various interventions. So I will end with those words, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u25	Thank you for the explanation. You speak as organisations, and it is of course the essence of your work to be concerned about that matter. That concern is justified, but you speak to a group of politicians here and you indicate that politics is failing. I have some reservations about that. A while ago, we were constantly told: the climate issue is leading the way for state reform. But if politics fails, then we are in the process of state reform, because we do not agree. You speak of 'a lack of', but what you do not mention is a lack of support. You and I may be worried about this, but is that what the 10 million Belgians are worried about? Ultimately, the climate issue is a financial issue. You mention lists on which you think we are too low in terms of climate effort. But on lists of citizens' capacities in the field of taxation, we are very high in the order of precedence. On the list of most corrupt countries as well. In other words, that list doesn't mean much to me. The question was asked: why burden sharing? In the first contribution we have heard what is happening in other countries. That is always interesting, but other countries are not like Belgium. In the United Kingdom, for example, the four major regions are given an opinion, but they are allowed to do so according to their capacity. Politics is always the elephant in the room, when reference is made to democracy. The composition of the government is perfectly legitimate and democratic. But with seven coalition partners it becomes difficult to agree and come to unity. Moreover, the largest groups are not heard in this. That will create a democratic deficit. The objectives may be justified, but their feasibility must also be considered. So there should soon be a state reform, which we think is even better tomorrow than next week. But maybe we're not thinking in the same direction. I am convinced that it will be easier to agree on certain issues in the climate debate following a thorough state reform. Here are some questions in bulk, as well as some reflections following the experts' presentations. What alternatives could a climate law be? In your view, we should give priority to a very proactive approach to a binding Belgian framework and then give climate governance its full chance, before we have it approved by our regional bodies. What means should be used to achieve the necessary consultation? What about the modes of governance? What, in your opinion, are the conditions necessary to ensure the effectiveness of climate legislation? Have you used benchmarking, this comparison exercise with other countries to see what has been established in terms of legislation and regulations? Should the European Union not take the lead in climate governance, in order to achieve our goal of neutrality by 2050, notably through the Green Deal? Political arbitration was also mentioned in the presentations. We regret not to hear the Belgian climate ministers on this issue. Perhaps this could be discussed at a forthcoming Bureau meeting. These ministers were present at COP26 and will be present at COP27. Important political decisions will have to be taken. They could have explained to us the reasons for the intrabelgian failure to reach an agreement at COP26, but also the avenues that could be explored for COP27. As some have said and continue to say, it is high time to take action. Some key competences for a strong climate policy are shared by the federal and regional governments. Federal climate expertise is linked in particular to the development of offshore wind turbines, the isolation of their own buildings, etc. The issue of coordination with the Regions, which are responsible for renewables and housing insulation, is also crucial. The different governments of our country must agree and follow the same direction. In particular, there is a question of cooperation in the revision of the PNEC. So how do you envisage it? How can climate policy be made more effective? I would like to recall that the MR Group in the Brussels Parliament had tabled a text for the establishment of a Council of Future Generations. The underlying idea was to define a way of involving all the political forces involved in an innovative decision-making process, particularly on the climate issue, which engages us all on several legislatures, regardless of political sensitivities. With regard to climate governance, the objectives set commit future generations and, therefore, future governments. Indeed, as you said, Mrs Thissen, it is not a matter of having a vision only for the duration of the legislature, that is, five years for example. It is true that a new form of governance should be put in place to meet the pressing need to ensure the sustainability of political decisions systematically. There is a need to reform the decision-making process in order to integrate it in the long term and involve future generations. Merci beaucoup.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to all the speakers for their comments. I thought they were very clear. With the PVDA, we make no secret of believing that we need more than just improving governance to make climate policy work in federal Belgium. We call for a re-federalisation of climate policy. This means that the federal level will have to define the framework for climate policy. Having said that, there will always be a place for governance in our vision. Climate policy is fundamentally transversal and will always have to be implemented through other powers. These powers belong to the Länder or not, and we want to keep them there in certain cases. That is why we welcome Professors Born and Misonne's proposal for a hierarchy of standards in the climate crisis. But there will always be a need for consultation and good cooperation, both at the federal level and at the inter-federal level. We therefore also consider it important to achieve the best possible governance. But the path between where we are now and where we want to go is not obvious. Meanwhile, the clock for the climate is ticking mercilessly and the policy cycle of the NEKP continues tirelessly. I therefore have some very general questions for you. How do we tackle the improvement of our climate governance in practice, while the whole policy cycle is under way and we are also thinking about the reforms of our state structure? How can we apply the improvement of governance to current cases? I am thinking in particular of the files covered by the Burden Sharing. Last time, it took us eight years to achieve that distribution. How do we ensure that a good agreement is reached in good time this time? How do we ensure that we also achieve an integrated NEFP in time that complies with the European Regulation on Governance? Those negotiations are officially conducted in the NKC, but that body has never actually functioned properly. The current cooperation agreement around the NKC is only partially implemented, which is particularly problematic in terms of transparency. That is why I have addressed a specific question to Mrs Thissen. How do we enforce the transparency obligations? In your note on climate governance, you also propose to revise the cooperation agreement around the NKC and to include binding measures there in case of non-respect of the cooperation agreement, with the aim of avoiding blocking and delays. What binding measures do you intend to take? With what instrument can the blocking and delays be avoided with 100 % certainty?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u27	I am Christophe De Beukelaer of the Brussels Parliament. Thank you all for your presentations. I have a few supplementary questions. I don't think we've talked much about the local level. However, in all these proposals and in all the legislative imaginations we make, how can we ensure that we make maximum use of the local level, which I think in Belgium remains a force, especially in the climate transition? While there is a lot of uncertainty at the local level, very concrete initiatives are being put in place. How can we, within this inter-federal framework, manage to use this goodwill, which is often found at the local level, to move the lines at the climate level? At the level of the Engaged, we had requested the hearing of representatives of the Citizen Climate Convention. This has not been accepted, and I regret it. I think it is a fundamental tool, especially and mainly to create the draagvlak, which is really important in the population. Should we rather imagine a citizens' convention at national or regional level? At the level of the special climate law, very interesting presentations were made, in which the technical outline of the issue was better understood. But the brake is also political. Have you taken this into account in your analysis? Do you have anything to give us? How could this political hindrance be unlocked? I don't think he'll be fundamentally different after 2024. The question is: is there a way to adjust the proposal and this mechanism so that the political brakes also jump? I know it's always tricky to talk about it, but we need to talk about it clearly, otherwise it's a little the elephant in the room. I'm also a little surprised. I'm watching my friends from the Ecolo group. I don't want to make a policy here, but isn't there a responsibility of the federal climate minister to lead the discussions and thinking that we're trying to conduct here and that's important? As Mr Casier has pointed out, we have limited resources in this House. Is there not a stronger role for the Minister of Climate? It is probably not a lack of will on his part but a collective and governmental decision that must push it to do so. It's not a spade at all that I'm throwing at him. At the structural level, is there not any reflection and consultation that should be carried out by this body? It doesn't matter who's in the position. That's not the point. You mentioned the fact that we could imagine the Codeco Climat. We agree that this would be imagined next to a high-level ad hoc committee of super-important experts. These are two different things. Beyond the great legislative barnums that must be imagined, should we not have other tools? Shouldn't we, too, from this committee, for example, push for the adoption of alternative economic indicators? Isn't it something that could fundamentally drive public policy differently? I will not make all the speeches on GDP, etc. that's out of date. Another tool, for example, is common. There are no legislative tools, for example on commons, to be able, at very local and concrete level, to move forward on issues where we could agree on more local concrete that we believe is essential for the future of generations. There may be less high level legislative tools to be put in place but perhaps more effective in the concrete.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u28	Mr President, I listened very carefully to the presentations. My general impression is that, despite all the urgency of the climate, the marches for the climate, the holding of the COP26, the reports of the IPCC, we have the impression that since 2019, in Belgium, things are not getting at the best, at least in the organisation of climate stewardship and governance. That's very disturbing. I don't have a magic answer to find out how to solve this question. It simply seems to me that the extreme politicization of climate and environmental themes and the fact that, in the end, we are not working on alliances but on the construction of first class are elements that do not play in favour of problem solving. Can sectors such as those we have heard still move forward and highlight these specific aspects more clearly? For my part, I am convinced that if the sectors that are most affected by the climate today, be it the economy or the social sectors, do not take their place in the search for solutions – and this has been seen, some are precursors and highlight elements – the difficulties of the intra-Belgian dialogue linked to our federal structure and more deeply to the immense cleavage that is going through our country, will persist. The picture drawn up by Mrs Thissen is not very encouraging. As parliamentarians, we have a role to play or at least try to play, at our level. We must ask for explanations, transparency. The National Energy-Climate Plan 2021-2030 and its regional counterparts are incomprehensible, as the European Union has pointed out. However, for the Défi Group, the European Union is a major hope because it is advancing and encouraging its Member States to move forward. Perhaps Belgium will find there enough energy to keep up with the movement. This will be essential for advancing the issues of climate governance that we so lack. The fact today, after two or three years of quasi-immobilism, is that we have not come out of the rut. If my intervention is more of the order of the comment than of the question, I am nevertheless in favour of any answer that someone might bring.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u29	I propose that each speaker take ten minutes to answer the questions of the Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u30	Thank you for all these questions. Of course, everything is political. Not everything is going to be solved by structures, but why resist the need to adopt new ones? It must be understood that European Union law takes precedence over domestic law. We no longer have the choice of whether or not to sign up for climate neutrality. At one point, it was a bit vaporous, the Paris Agreement had to be translated into elements developed at the national level and thus of the European Union. Now, the European Union specifies this in its regulation: both at collective level and with the compulsory support of the Member States, we must go in this direction. I hear the first speaker say "yes, but there is the climate and also energy, the country's security of supply". But it's a whole, which can no longer be dissociated. This is the problem we observed with the health crisis: suddenly, we seemed to set aside the climate issue because there was another emergency. It's not understanding what it's about with the climate. We must respect our international commitments. We have agreed to think about the long term, and we must focus on it without waiting for a European condemnation that could happen to us under these new texts. It is no longer left to the discretion of the states to decide whether or not we will take the climate issue seriously. This is already imposed by this supranational framework. Should the European Union do more? She can't do anything either. Under the Treaty of Lisbon, it does not have all the powers to lead the action of States, particularly on the energy issue. It has a lot of power to harmonise environmental matters, which it does with its new European climate law, but on energy there are obstacles. It should have unanimity in order to impose on States the way they think about their energy policies. That's not possible. So it leaves it to everyone to organize themselves, but it is a little the position that one wanted to occupy in this great puzzle. The question we ask as lawyers – because we are not an organisation, we are lawyers professors at university – is this: does Belgium really want to move? If I come back to the episode of the special law, the answer had been in the parliamentary spans: "We hear the governance problem well; everyone recognizes it but we will go through the cooperation agreement." The new agreement is still not there. So this really raises a question of accountability to society as a whole! You asked the question about the relevance of the National Climate Commission, but you answered for yourself. We don't know what's going on here. It's not transparent. We don't know what's blocking. It is archaic in relation to the height of the stakes. This aspect should be worked on by moving on to another dimension. We have to change our attitude. We must try to change our software, our thinking, since Belgium is always in a follow-up attitude. We're following. We are forced by the European Union. That's what I'm trying to explain. Now you have no choice. But we had to wait. Instead of being pioneers. Where is our sense of innovation? This is still worrying! I think we need to move forward in our thinking. The idea we have as lawyers is not necessarily to come back and say that we were right three years ago. There have been developments. If there was a special law, we wouldn't rewrite it the same way. Moreover, we must work in conjunction with the reform of the State. We believe that it is essential to move on to a higher level. This is not dissociable. In doing so, it is difficult to answer the timing question posed by one of you. Where to start since, in the end, everything seems to have to be done at the same time? The local dimension is obviously very, very important. In our joint intervention, we mentioned the need to support local entities, cities that develop into networks. There are researches, PhDs that are beginning to organize on this important issue. One aspect that was included in our slides was not developed. Alternative economic indicators are, of course, very important. But there's another aspect in the kind of paved up in the fun. I'm talking about lobbying in Belgium. What is the transparency of this aspect? This element is developed in a very interesting book on the health crisis and what happened in Belgium, published by colleagues at Larcier. A chapter in this book is devoted to the failure of lobbying supervision in our country. Shouldn't we be working on this? Is this not an unspoken explanation of our difficulty in deciding on climate governance?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u31	Mr President, I would like to take up a few questions to supplement the comments made by my colleague. As far as the limits of the cooperation agreement in 2002 and the CNC are concerned, what is being asked of the CNC is what would be asked of the High Climate Council today, namely, to take stock of regional, federal policies, whether we follow the objectives, whether we follow the path. It does not belong to the CNC which is a pure emanation of the government and the administrations to do so, whereas there is a hierarchy and therefore a political will that may be lacking. It is not up to a body that is not at all independent to talk about success or achievement of objectives. The annual report to be made by the CNC, I do not think it is published. Or at least not on a regular basis. I do not want to say anything stupid, but what is clear is that there is no sanction not to publish this report. If there is no publicity, there is no possibility of reacting to this report. I think there are shortcomings in the 2002 Cooperation Agreement. That's right! We could put him back on the table. Now, would it be the vehicle to have a real debate and a common legal tool? The problem of cooperation agreements is, among other things, that their control is not carried out by the Constitutional Court. It is also by specialised courts, which we hear very little about. I mean, here too, there is a problem, it is justiciability, finally, of commitments. However, this is essential with a view to efficiency and effectiveness. The judge also has a role to play. This is seen in the Grande-Synthe case at the Conseil d'Etat. France was condemned for failing to meet its carbon budgets. In the Klimaatzaak case, the Walloon Region had not fully respected its carbon budgets and this had been highlighted by the Walloon Committee of Experts, which is a committee that offers guarantees of independence, perhaps not perfect, but in any case which already has that role. That's it, on the CNC and what I could say. As regards the link between a National Climate High Council and high councils or committees of experts, at regional level, it is certain that it must be found. It could also be imagined that some members are members of both the Regional Councils and the National Council. That would not be totally impossible, and it might limit financial constraints, etc. as independence would be guaranteed. I don't see why we can't get them together. Now, we must not neglect the political part that a High Climate Council could have if it decides on the trajectories and on the achievement of objectives. We were asked other questions, such as the alternative to the Climate Act. That's exactly what I was saying. Personally, I am not convinced of the relevance of a cooperation agreement for the reasons just stated. The conditions necessary for the effectiveness of such a law would be justiciability. I think that in any case, the fact of being able to fear a conviction by Belgian courts could obviously also be a guarantee of effectiveness, even if we know that the separation of powers does not allow the judge to replace the administration or to replace the governments. But, as in the Urgenda case, it can consider at least pointing to the non-achievement of common objectives. In the Klimaatzaak case, however, the Court of First Instance in Brussels highlighted the failure of the Court of First Instance. As far as the other Member States are concerned, I believe that the President of the High Council for Climate has already highlighted, through her presentation alone, the value of these climate laws and independent expert bodies. I won't be any longer on this. With regard to not hearing the climate ministers on the failure of the burden sharing agreement, of course, what would be interesting would be to have a place and perhaps a climate day in which governments should speak to their parliamentarians every year, answer and report on their commitments. I think that's what's missing today too. Even if parliamentary structures allow ministers to be called at every level of power, it is not a real national debate, a real inter-federal debate, as one might imagine by means of a climate law-like vehicle, without prejudging the form it could take. The local level is, of course, an absolutely essential level. I would point out that at Flemish level, the provinces, the municipalities in any case, have an important role to play in spatial planning. If you have heard the presentation on the situation in France and the competence of the French regions to establish the SRADDET, these famous regional patterns, these are diagrams that have an influence on the urban planning documents. Local authorities are therefore key players and they are taking initiatives. The Covenant of Mayors, for example, is a tool that allows cities and municipalities to join forces to engage. Now, what may be missing is support for planning. It is expensive to ask experts to prepare diagrams. It is expensive to surround yourself with competent people to realize these things. It is also expensive to implement. It is also expensive to control, to follow up. Local authorities must therefore be monitored. This is where the concrete is played. But this requires a common vision. But this requires a common objective, and I believe that we will not escape - the new European climate law requires it - from having to speak with one voice and allow an independent authority to judge itself or at least assess whether our commitments have been fulfilled because these commitments do not only bind us, but also the European Union and the world as a whole. Success in climate neutrality in 2050 is a matter for all. What level for the citizens' convention? We observe that there are already civic conventions such as that of the Walloon Region that express themselves. I think they could be expressed at different levels of power. But perhaps it would have more weight if it were brought together at the initiative of the Federal Government, but in an inter-federal sense, with the cooperation of the Regions and the Communities, of course, at a national level. It is like the multi-level cross-sectoral dialogue that needs to be set up and that could already be set up without reform. There are already opportunities for dialogue in different fora, including non-public ones. As for a Codeco Climat, we have the expanded Interministerial Climate Conference, which is an emanation of the Consultation Committee. But we can see that the Codeco, in the covid crisis, was still in front of all the major decisions in the second part of the crisis. I think that we should try to put this body back in the light of the current climate emergency. Why not propose that he take charge of this policy today? I leave the floor to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u32	Mr President, the National Climate Commission has produced a number of annual reports. I say'some' because for a few years that obligation has not been fulfilled. You can easily check this on the NKC website, as the annual reports are available there, as well as the reports of the meetings and other documents. As I said, for example, on the synthesis report on climate governance in itself, if one or more parties oppose and do not agree with the publication, then there is no decision and then the report cannot be made available. It is therefore also possible to discuss this issue and consider whether the 2002 cooperation agreement should be reviewed. Certain anomalies must be seen with the will to make decision-making effective. The competence of the matter is shared. I can easily present a list about that. It is clear who is competent for what. Climate is a transversal competence, but a lot of things, such as energy, taxation and product standards, can be viewed interfacially. The 2030 target is not yet fully established at Belgian level. For those sectors which are not covered by the emissions trading system, you should know that this is about almost half the emissions. That means a huge revolution in a period of less than eight years. Is our country ready to adapt its energy system? Some important decisions have been taken, including in the field of hydrogen. Our Prime Minister recently indicated that the price for renewable energy has fallen the most. In what way can we continue this trend? What's the vision on that? This can be further examined interfacially, together with the Regions, within the framework of the Burden Sharing and the entire plan. I would also like to say that the Flemish Government has also set up a follow-up panel. This has published a number of opinions in 2019. Among other things, it calls for a more integrated plan. That's interesting literature. That panel includes scientists and independent experts, who take an interesting look at what is happening both Flemish and federal as well as together. Yesterday, I looked at the documents of the Walloon civil panel. We are talking about a convention for citizens. The problem is alive and there is much more support than we think. We are also organising a public survey every four years, and we see that, as time goes on, the number of citizens asking for clear and effective decision-making varies around 50%. So the basis of support is no less. The financial impact was asked for. The socio-economic impact must indeed be looked at, but we must also look at the opportunities and the long-term benefits that we have if we are to make certain investments now. That debate must be held. What legal instrument is available for this purpose? Delphine Misonne states it himself: with proposals of special law there would now be other elements as well... That is moving insight, but I also refer to the experience with the adoption of the 2002 cooperation agreement. That was a tough negotiation, but then we came to Parliament for the adoption or non-approval of the law to approve the cooperation agreement and that debate was knocked off a few hours ago. That was then, but is that the instrument you now have in mind? I think that is only poor in terms of democratic reflection in this respect. As far as timing is concerned, given what is happening in France, we are faced with a huge challenge here. The next updated National Energy and Climate Plan is due to be submitted in June 2023. All entity-specific plans will not be submitted until March 2023. So we will only have three months to integrate and summarize it. Isn't that hallucinating, knowing that the text will be far advanced? We need to work more proactively. France does that twelve years in advance. Well, then I'm ashamed. The will is there. There's gotta be one. It depends on our attitude, but it's urgency. I hope that perhaps I am somewhat naive in this that the spirits are now matured. We need to find a forum to talk about this openly and transparently. We need to be able to look each other in the eye and decide what we want. Is it this forum? Is it a different forum? Is it a CODECO Climate? If we can have decisions such as those for COVID-19 on climate change, it will be able to help our country move forward. The slopes are here. The negotiations are continuing, but we are still looking at each other. I look forward to the continuation of this process.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u33	Mr President, I will try to bring together the various questions in order to be as synthetic as possible. I know everyone's hungry and it's almost time. In advance, all my apologies if I forgot one or the other question. For the first question on the 2002 Cooperation Agreement, there are already a lot of things that have been said. With respect to the application of the existing provisions, I will share my slides after the meeting, but a non-exhaustive list of what is planned and not done has been drawn up. There is also what is not planned but what is done and what is problematic, in particular the fact that the majority of the discussions take place in intercabinets, which is in fact a legally unclear place where there is no obligation of reporting or transparency. Everything that is happening in the "general assembly" of the National Climate Commission is actually reported and present in the activity reports but, in fact, nothing is said or decided. This does not, therefore, bring much to transparency and democratic debate. I repeat what I have already said. For us, it is really important, and it agrees with what Mr Born said, to target who has what role and to dissociate these roles, to have a role of proposal and technical negotiation, and then a role of endorsement and political arbitration. For now, it's just an opaque molasses that we have in front of our eyes and that does not respond at all to the stakes. With regard to the proposals for improving the cooperation agreement, this is in line with what I have just said, it is necessary to redefine its mandate and objectives and, above all, to ensure that we have obligations of result because, once again, we see it very well, if we do not get agreement, if we discuss for two, three, eight years, there are no great consequences. This obligation must therefore also be redefined. You know there is a rotating presidency. The Region or the federal entity with the Presidency therefore also clearly has a lever to propose something. This should therefore be endorsed. There is a need for a clear and public work agenda that can be evaluated at a later stage. Of course, there is the involvement of parliaments – that goes without saying – which is indispensable. We look back at the role of interparliamentary dialogue in this context, which could really play a strong role. We need to figure out how to legally endorse it. Why not revise the cooperation agreement and therefore include the role of this dialogue? This could be a way. The frequency of meetings could also be increased. The other bodies for consultation, for example, on energy issues, meet monthly. Why, as far as climate is concerned, should we wait? We have a legal minimum of two years. It depends on the goodwill of the Presidency. I did mention binding measures in the event of non-compliance with the cooperation agreement. I don't have a full proposal, but we could imagine setting a deadline. Beyond this, an entity, the one with the presidency or the federal government, would decide the discussion. Anyway, I think there's really a lot of things. This debate often seems insurmountable because of its complexity, but, for me, we just have to take things in the right order. It is necessary to bear in mind the need to create a system, to ensure that the roles are redefined and, after that, to put the ensemble into music. I'm well aware that it's not that simple, but it's not that complicated either. With regard to the existence of independent expert committees, there are already many things that are being done in Belgium. It should not be seen as a problem, but rather as a situation that could even be beneficial, especially for the already well-designed regional independent expert committees, such as Brussels, which is brand new and which meets many of the criteria we have mentioned in our presentation. Why not have these committees interact? The National Committee would annually have a great time of reporting, publicity, meeting with civil society and parliamentarians, and would be fed by the various regional committees. The question is not to add layers of complexity, but rather to reorganize the whole. With regard to the Climate OCAM and the Climate Centre of Excellence, these bodies represent important budgets. We have to ask ourselves whether they meet the objectives and, if not, how we can get them into the dance and combine them with this request for objectivation of the climate debate. A question was raised by Ms. Czekalski on the conditions for passing a law. In this context, a series of questions must be asked and tried to answer them as clearly as possible. How can we go towards these goals, are we on the right track, with whom are we going to go? All these questions – which were on my slide – asked at the same time with a logical sense, allow us to set the clear conditions for a good or bad climate law. This always means clarifying roles and responsibilities. There was also a question about the role of the European Union. It seems to me that this role has been clearly set out in the various interventions. The European Commission's aim now is to tighten the stride around the Member States. It does not hide it, and this can be seen when we read the various articles of climate legislation. Article 6 of the climate law allows the European Commission to submit recommendations to the Member States, which are public and to which the Member States must respond. If they do not follow the recommendations, they must justify it. The monitoring mechanism is becoming increasingly relevant and important to individual States. There is section 34 of the governance regulation that provides for more or less the same thing. There is a future regulation of the Effort sharing (to Europe, they are more chic), of the European effort which will also require to have compliance check, that is to say to check the compatibility of climate plans with European objectives. Whether we want it or not, all this will be more and more important. It always comes back to the same question of anticipation: either we use our tools or we undergo. It's simple. (This could be a political slogan!) Compared to the arrival of climate ministers, in the framework of the interparliamentary dialogue, I am personally and totally in favour of their coming, but on the other hand much less in favour of their testimony on the situation of current governance. Because you know that people who currently have their hands in the country to negotiate, will not have the necessary objectivity to say what the problem is, but will point out their neighbour and repeat what is seen in the media and on Twitter. If you want to hear this, I understand it, but what is much more interesting is to establish a regular relationship with them so that they can come into this dialogue on specific points, accountability, explain one or the other decision. I mean to invite them to comment on Belgian climate governance, I have the impression that this will not bring much to the debate. I am not saying that it is totally useless, but I have the impression that this hearing will just reflect the political tensions and the objectives of everyone. On the other hand, inviting them in another setting would be much more relevant. Compared to "long" times and "short" times, there are pressing issues that are captive to bad governance and there is the issue of improving governance substantially. We need to rethink the roles, rethink the workings and answer questions. Compared to the shorter-term files, there is the National Climate Plan, we talked about it and I mentioned it in my presentation. It's important to know that beyond what we're going to put in, we need to know how to put it. The methodology in this regard is fundamental. The question therefore arose as to how, potentially, it was possible to draw inspiration from the stimulus plan, from the methodology that led to the existence of thematic working groups that worked on different aspects in a federal way and then, subsequently, a revision by different levels of authority. The context is different: there are not six billion at the key. But, to follow this metaphor, there is, in the end, much more money at the key in the climate issue. There was therefore a horizontal and vertical interlocking which resulted in a plan being submitted to the EC within three months. There was financial motivation, we can't deny it. But there was a methodology that could be inspiring, not to copy, but, at least, generating ideas to strengthen the way the PNEC is written. Because if we take the same methodology as in 2019, we may have a slightly bigger ambition, the result will be the same. By making a contribution to Burden sharing, issues are being captured, including international climate finance (for which you know that the CNCD is paying a lot of attention). I see no other way than to put constant pressure on this issue, and not just before the COP, because that is often the case. It is felt that the Burden sahring is completely linked to the COP. But that's not the case. It's just that there are much stronger media and political movements. Yet it should be hammered and not left to oblivion for the rest of the year. I come to the question of the political restraint on the special climate law or perhaps on the debate on governance as such. I don't have infuse science and wouldn't allow me to give lessons. But from my point of view, it would be interesting to have another timing. A few months ago, before the elections, it was quite clear that there would be a crackdown on these issues. The debate was not at all calmed, well-founded and documented. It was a debate mainly of positions which ended up in Community debate in the end. It's sad, but it's true. Perhaps we should take the time now and it falls well since it is in 2022, it gives us a little time, to really try to understand these brakes but especially the common opportunities. For despite the framings that the various parties have adopted today, there are common needs and expectations in relation to a series of things. I don't think these brakes are insurmountable. We really need to integrate – what had not been because of lack of time and because it was not yet timely – the demands that now exist within the European framework, mainly (internationally it already existed before), to really understand in what we are evolving and to emerge from this idea that having a climate law is ideological and dogmatic, when it is simply a matter of responding to an international and European commitment that we have taken. With regard to the federal minister, I would just like to point out that some of the points in the government agreement should be noted in terms of governance. Things are done. My feeling is that we are focusing a lot on the federal level. That's good, since each entity is moving at its own pace. However, if only through this cooperation agreement, the federal government should be able to move forward on governance issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic749x.u34	Thank you. The challenge has been met to bring this issue of climate governance, which is not trivial, within a few minutes of this commission. I would like to thank all those who responded to this hearing, as well as the parliamentarians who follow us online and those who are present here. In the future, as a meeting of heads of delegation will soon be held, I invite parliamentarians to send them all their proposals and then agree on the continuation of our work. We have not exhausted the subject today, but the debate is being held. Good afternoon, everyone!
