ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u1	Colleagues, Mrs Fonck, Mrs Merckx and Mrs Zanchetta are excused. Their questions will be deferred.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u2	Mrs Depoorter must be on another committee until 4 p.m. Wherever possible, she'll postpone her questions until she gets here. Her current question is without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u3	Minister, as we know, vaccination remains a very effective tool. It protects serious forms and nevertheless reduces transmission and contamination. Following the emergence of variants, pharmaceutical companies have embarked on a race towards more specific vaccines. However, few studies are currently available on the potential for improved efficacy of other vaccines. Research on other vaccines is, of course, an effective weapon that we must support. My question is about the information you would have about new vaccines that are better suited to the variants we are encountering today. What's the status of Novavax deliveries? What about muconasal vaccines? We talked about this during the hearings on compulsory vaccination. I wanted to know if you had any information to give us about these vaccines. When it comes to "recall" on vaccination, of course, it must be linked to the availability of new vaccines that would be more effective against variants or more specific in terms of routes of administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u4	Question No 55025789C by Mrs Sophie Merckx is not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u5	Minister, the recent epidemiological situation has led to the lifting of the latest health measures. We are all satisfied with this, but we must remain cautious, especially in view of the latest figures that are going up as well as the seasonality of the virus – which exposes us to another possible rebound from the epidemic to the fall of September. In this respect, all the experts we have had the opportunity to hear in the hearings on compulsory vaccination have told us: this epidemic is extremely variable, especially in the light of the emergence of new variants, hence the need to have vaccines that are constantly adapted to these same variants. In this regard, the fourth dose of the covid-19 vaccine has been open to immunocompromised people since January. This is obviously an excellent thing, except that the possibility of a fourth dose has not yet been extended to other categories of the population. I am thinking in particular of people who suffer from co-morbidities or the elderly, who have always been given priority in previous vaccination campaigns. It was logical to see the vaccination task force recommend today the second booster dose for September 2022 to vulnerable people, including the elderly. Health professionals and adults with co-morbidities could receive this reminder as early as October of this year. And finally, those who wish to do so could also benefit, in consultation with their doctor. Another possibility that was envisaged by this task force would be to immunize the most vulnerable from July this year. These individuals would be vaccinated early in the summer, and the entire adult population would follow in the second half of the year. Minister, when will we have a more precise schedule for administering this fourth dose for the rest of the population, especially the elderly and those with co-morbidities? What is the basis for the possibility of administering this vaccine in September 2022 or July 2022 for the most vulnerable? Why is this fourth dose considered so late in view of the evolutionary nature of this epidemic? Is it related to the price of the Pfizer vaccine, adapted to the omicron variant, which is particularly high? Will the fourth dose be with vaccines that will be adapted to the omicron variant as well as to future variants? Does the government finally stand in the framework of a structural policy of protection against covid-19? If so, what is the place of anticipation in this same policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u6	Since November, Mrs Sofie Merckx has already submitted three written questions to determine the price per dose of the vaccines and the pills against covid-19. To all these questions you and Secretary of State De Bleeker refuse to answer. The complete lack of transparency makes it very difficult to identify prices. SudPresse researched and described that, I quote - "C'est la croix et la bannière." Nevertheless, according to their research, we would pay on average EUR 13 per dose. From the tweet of State Secretary De Bleeker of December 2020, in which she accidentally leaked the prices, we know that in that period 12 euro per vaccine from Pfizer/BioNTech was paid. Recently the federal budgets have been adjusted and an additional budget has been made available for vaccines that have been adapted to the omicron variant and are produced only by Pfizer/BioNTech. It also mentioned how much is paid and how many doses we get for it. If we convert that, it is 19.5 euros per dose. That is EUR 7.5 more than the price paid in December 2020, an increase of 62.5%. This price increase cannot be in a reasonable proportion to an increase in the costs borne by Pfizer and BioNTech for the research, development and production of those specific vaccines. We should also recall that basic research into mRNA technology has been carried out by public research institutions. For the development and production of the vaccine, Pfizer and BioNTech received EUR 725 million public funds from, among others, Germany and the European Union. The main investments in the development and production of these vaccines have long been made, as the mRNA vaccine lends itself more easily to adaptation than the other types of vaccines. A price increase of 62.5% seems to us to be illegal. How could you agree to a delivery of the vaccines to that price? Will you finally answer Mrs Merckx's questions and release the price per dose for the different vaccines we ordered and administered in Belgium? Finally, so far the government has not been transparent about the prices of these vaccines. Why don't you announce those prices unless you do today? In this way, countries can take a stronger position in negotiations with producers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u7	First of all, I will answer Mrs Rohonyi's relevant questions, but my answers are, at this stage, still general. Then I will come to Mr Bacquelaine's more specific questions. Finally, I will answer your questions, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Rohonyi, it is obvious that we are following the evolution of the circulation of the virus in the population on a daily basis. If the current situation has given less attention to it since the easing of the measures decided by the Conciliation Committee, our vigilance remains intact. She has to stay that way, I think. We'll come back later in the afternoon. The increase in both contamination and hospitalization is a factor that must be of concern to all of us. Caution remains to be exercised. This also underlines the need for good preparation. It is in this context that the Vaccination Task Force identified five scenarios aimed at anticipating any evolution of the epidemic by matching them to the audiences involved in a new phase of vaccination, the places of administration of vaccines and the types of vaccines used according to the severity of a potential new wave. I will not go into details since these five scenarios are to be found on the website infocoronavirus.be You will find that their range is going to crescendo. The most optimistic formula foresees a new vaccination of the most vulnerable audiences, only next year. Its most pessimistic version includes vaccination open to the whole population, starting in April. This scenario work is primarily intended to provide a framework on the scope and nature of the action to be taken and does not prevent a slight adaptation of the mentioned timings. Thus, in the most optimistic version, it is not to be excluded that vaccination of seniors and people with co-morbidities can already begin in mid-August. This is not the way it was presented, but it is a degree of flexibility that we must have in mind. The only parameter that will define the level of our action is the strength of a possible resumption of the epidemic. As we have demonstrated over the past two years, managing this epidemic requires significant adaptive capacity and these scenarios will not derogate from this rule. The reflection of the task force naturally incorporates the use of vaccines adapted to the evolution of the virus while exercising caution. At this stage, they are not yet available and in so doing, it is impossible to define precisely when we will have them. As things stand, these new vaccines are not expected until July, as I will explain in response to Mr Bacquelaine's questions. He asked me what information I had in this regard. On 25 January, Pfizer BioNtech began a study to test a specific vaccine against the omicron variant in 1,420 adults aged 18 to 55. This study consists of three groups in which different patterns of the current Pfizer vaccine and the appropriate omicron vaccine will be compared. Depending on the results, a suitable Pfizer vaccine could be approved in this month of March. It's still pending. On 26 January, Moderna also announced the start of a Phase 2 study with an omicron-specific booster that will be compared to a two-dose schedule of Moderna vaccine in approximately 600 adults 18 years of age and older. That is not clear yet. What about nasal-mucosal vaccines? According to the World Health Organization (WHO), eight nasal vaccine candidates are currently being studied in clinical studies, including one Phase 3 vaccine and seven Phase 1 or 2 vaccines. Phase 1 or 2 studies first and primarily test safety and immune response, while efficacy in preventing SARS-CoV-2 infection is tested in Phase 3. Phase 3 vaccine is a nasal spray vaccine. It is based on a viral vector of influenza. It is developed by the University of Hong Kong with which two Phase 3 studies were recently launched in Ghana and the Philippines, the results of which are expected from September 2023. Currently, no intranasal vaccines have been submitted to the WHO or the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for approval. Mr. Bacquelaine and Ms. Rohonyi asked whether future recalls should be made with a specific vaccine. Clinical studies and field data show that a primary vaccination regimen and, to a lesser extent, a booster vaccination offer less protection against symptomatic infections caused by the omicron variant compared to the delta variant, and that protection decreases more rapidly over time. However, the effectiveness of a booster vaccine against hospitalization or death resulting from an omicron variant infection remains high, although it decreases slightly over time with regard to hospitalization. I'm not going to give all the details here. But, as you know, Sciensano has published site records and studies on the subject. Finally, whether or not to use variable-specific boosters depends on additional data on the long-term effectiveness of current vaccines against the omicron variant and whether or not new variants are emerging in the future. It would therefore be a little premature to make a final decision. Considering the five scenarios proposed by the Task Force, it is possible that the existing vaccines will be used. But, for now, we're not sure of anything. We are waiting for authorizations for variant vaccines and for more extensive clinical studies. Obviously, everything that can be observed about the impact and duration of the impact of existing vaccines on the omicron variant is also monitored. Mr Warmoes, you asked a different type of question. Mrs Merckx has already asked me several times in writing about the price per type of vaccine. Let me first say that contracts for the new vaccines are being negotiated at European level. The Member States are informed about the progress of the negotiations during our steering committee, the so-called steering board, in the context of European vaccination purchases. Subject to the contractual conditions and scientific data on vaccines and the epidemiological situation, several experts and administrations shall decide whether or not a purchase is appropriate. Such a proposal or opinion will then be submitted to the Inter-Ministerial Conference of Health Ministers, which will finally take the decision. So when we decided, that was always a joint decision of all health ministers at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. I do not need to remind you that we have systematically participated in European contracts for the purchase of vaccines, that there is an obligation of confidentiality in this area and that I cannot therefore communicate about the pricing of vaccines. All Member States are confidentially aware of prices. In other words, it is not necessary to make these prices public, so that fellow health ministers in other countries would know them too. Everyone has access to the same confidential information.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answers. I would like to make a further remark in relation to the studies under way at Pfizer or Moderna on the specifically omicron vaccine. If the conclusions reach us in March or April, it will be necessary, depending on the results, to carry out the orders. I assume this will be done in a European market. It will be necessary to ensure that Belgium has sufficient quantities of vaccines from the moment they have a real added value compared to the current vaccines.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u9	Minister, I thank you for your answer and for reminding you of the importance of being vigilant and, therefore, of being well prepared. This implies having the different possible scenarios at our disposal, depending on the severity of a new potential wave. It is in this sense that the vaccination task force worked. This is obviously extremely positive, especially in view of the recent concern expressed by both Mr Facon and Mrs Vlieghe, who called for forward-looking planning. But this schedule must also be readable. However, I went to see the opinion of the task force in question. These scenarios include target audiences and vaccination sites. But I wonder what these scenarios correspond to. Are we going to rely on your barometer? Do you consider that your barometer is flexible enough – you talked about flexibility – to accommodate new variants? These could affect us in a different way than anmicron or previous variations, which affected older people and vulnerable people more. In the future, variants could, for example, be more targeted at younger audiences. I think that alongside these scenarios, it is important to have consistency in the continuation of our vaccination strategy, to make things clear to people, why you need a booster dose precisely, especially before the fall, before a peak of the epidemic, a bit like you do for the flu. It is very important to explain why this booster dose is needed for understanding and adherence to vaccination measurement. Moreover, the opinion of the vaccination task force begins by saying that to date there is no scientific evidence to establish the need to administer a second booster dose to the total population, or to the more vulnerable groups. If tomorrow's booster dose is expanded, we will have to explain why, with scientifically sound arguments. In addition, there is a need for a pre-order strategy at European level for new vaccines, which we do not have today. They could be extremely valuable in our vaccination campaign, precisely because they are based on technology other than messenger RNA. I am thinking in particular of the vaccine produced by the French-Austrian laboratory Valneva, which is based on the more conventional technology of the inactivated virus that can attract people who are not necessarily antivax but who do not adhere to messenger RNA technology. We must be able to anticipate things and operate pre-orders at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u10	Minister, I was a little surprised by the shortness of your answer. Now I know a little bit better how the procedure works. It is also clear that all the health ministers who are rich in this country are taking part in the decision. I regret, however, that you do not want to release the information on the price. It is a question of transparency. The unreasonable prices are the result of the monopoly practices of Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna. However, I would like to point out that the basis for those mRNA vaccines was laid by EUR 725 million in public funds. South Africa, which has discovered the omicron variant, which probably does not come from that country, has immediately provided all the information on the variant. Pfizer was also eagerly used to work on the vaccine. South Africa has been punished for this by a blocking of air traffic. It is a bit poignant that scientists from a country like South Africa share their knowledge, so that it could be used for the vaccine, while punishing the country. That's a pretty perverse dynamic. We have tabled a proposal here, which was voted down because the government also does not want the patents to be shared. You did not comment on the prices I mentioned, nor on the price Sudpresse gave, nor on the price we calculated, of 19.5 euros per dose, which means an increase of 62.5 %. Then I assume that that information is correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u11	Minister, the number of cyber attacks on Belgian companies increased by 81% last year, according to figures published by Check Point, an Israeli company that develops security software. Health care organizations have recorded twice as many computer attacks. According to Check Point researchers, a company or organization in Belgium suffered an average of 643 attacks per week in 2021. Health care organizations were particularly targeted, with an average of 1507 cyber attacks per week, up 124% compared to 2020. Minister, has a precise analysis of cyberattacks in the health care sector in Belgium been carried out? Where do these cyberattacks come from and what are the consequences of them, especially regarding patients' medical data? What tools are available today to effectively address the risk of cyberattacks in the health care sector? What about hospitals? Are these tools sufficient? Do they have to be strengthened in view of the impressive figures of 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u12	Mr Prévot, it is true that we are currently facing cyber attacks in the health care sector, like many other sectors. The analysis of the origin of these attacks is not the responsibility of my administration, but rather of the Centre for Cyber Security in Belgium. On the other hand, some files may still be the subject of judicial investigation, and we do not have access to these files. Digitalization and security incidents, however, encourage public institutions to support hospitals. The field of cybersecurity continues to evolve. No organization or individual is immune. It is therefore important to raise awareness and make the various actors aware that the threat is everywhere. The eHealth platform offers a basic architecture. Standards, specifications and standards are available free of charge and are published. These are services that all health care actors and their ICT service providers can use free of charge to develop online services or to open authentic validated sources. The eHealth platform does not itself manage a specific network infrastructure and the development of applications remains the responsibility of the healthcare actors or ICT service providers of their choice. Preventive measures must be taken to counter attacks and tools must be put in place by hospitals to detect and respond to incidents. In attacks, institutions must be ready to react quickly. The Incident Response Plan for cybersecurity incidents is part of the hospital emergency plan. Tools such as checklists are available in the form of documents, videos to help the organizations attacked to cope, not to mention the stage of resumption of activity. Some hospitals, unfortunately victims of cyber attacks, have agreed to share their experience and lessons learned, the human, medical, financial and technical consequences as well as how they managed the crisis during the attack. Points of attention have been highlighted, ranging from technical solutions concerning hospital connections both internally and externally, to good preventive practices, such as the use of software to identify risk exposure to potential attacks, to awareness and awareness that safety must take precedence. A list of minimum standards and implementation guidelines has been developed for health institutions, based on ISO 27,000. The aim of these standards is to strengthen the safety rules and the means to monitor them in order to increase the overall level of security of all institutions. But this is an ongoing process. Additional efforts are therefore needed. Awareness and awareness, management of security policy change, training of staff, a network of knowledge and experience sharing, systems of collaboration between hospitals, investments in medical and computer equipment, all constitute many challenges. The area of cybersecurity is constantly evolving and requires organizations to be constantly vigilant and to prepare. Preventive measures, where they exist, may not be sufficient. Intrusion tests must be carried out and monitoring 7/7 days and 24 hours allows to anticipate cyberattacks. Contingency plans must be deployed with specialized teams. These challenges are also compounded by the hiring of staff with expertise in cybersecurity. A budget of $20 million has been allocated to continue the initiatives taken and to launch new ones to support hospital institutions. They are currently being asked to participate in the assessment of their level of maturity in relation to the minimum standards defined. It is therefore a vast project, Mr Prévot, but budgetary support is important to this end. In addition, the policy framework has been well defined. On the other hand, there is a lot of goodwill on the ground. Obviously, as you say, the risk is present.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u13	Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, the precise and sharp analysis came out at the Cyber Security Centre. It remains, as you have recalled, that the health care sector is facing cyber attacks on a daily basis. Increased digitisation obviously calls for more vigilance. Thank you for providing us with a snapshot of the situation. We observe that your policy is proactive in this area, in order to avoid such cyber attacks which, in the health care sector, may result in consequences such as the recovery or disclosure of medical data from patients. In any case, I mean that budgets are unblocked and vigilance is required. It's, of course, something to reassure me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u14	Mrs Jadin is not present, her question lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u15	Mr Minister, in 2015, the Chamber unanimously adopted a resolution calling for improvements in diagnosis and care for people with chronic fatigue syndrome. I would like to know from you the state of play with regard to the implementation of this resolution. Which issues have already been implemented or will be implemented? Do you have a plan of action on this? What's the time you're putting on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u16	Mr De Caluwe, you are right. The resolution adopted by the Chamber in 2015 on improving the diagnosis and care of people with chronic fatigue syndrome contained many different recommendations. Many of these recommendations fall within the competence of the Länder. Of the series of recommendations, the following are among my particular responsibilities. Firstly, to instruct the Federal Health Knowledge Centre to evaluate all existing studies and to formulate scientifically-based guidelines on the approach of CVS. Secondly, work on the recording of all kinds of data by the existing CVS diagnostic centres and also carry out an evaluation of these diagnostic centres. Thirdly, ensure that diagnosis is always carried out by a multidisciplinary team and that a sufficient distinction is made in the diagnosis with fibromyalgia. Fourthly, lay down guidelines for the controlling and consulting doctors and provide for the possibility of a partial resumption of work. As regards the first recommendation, the question that the KCE would carry out a study of CVS, I would like to remind you that the KCE, together with the Supreme Health Council, has already drawn up recommendations for developing an adequate therapeutic offer for CVS in 2008. In 2020, the High Health Council reviewed the current knowledge of this disease, its definition, its etiopathogenesis, its diagnostics and recommended intervention. The Hoge Gezondheidsraad has also examined how the provision of care to these patients can be improved in Belgium. The advice of the Supreme Health Council can be consulted on the website of the Public Health Office. Therefore, entrusting the KCE with a new study on CVS does not seem appropriate at the moment, taking into account the current priority list for the KCE. The second recommendation in the resolution is the recording of data by existing CVS diagnostic centres and the realisation of an evaluation of these diagnostic centres. This registration and evaluation was foreseen from the outset in the RIZIV Agreement, which since 2014 regulates the operation and financing of the conflicted, multidisciplinary diagnostic centres for CVS. The evaluation report prepared in 2018 can be consulted on the RIZIV website. This evaluation report has carefully produced positive results. You can read it yourself and draw your own conclusions. The third recommendation is to ensure that the diagnostic thesis is always carried out by a multidisciplinary team and that a sufficient distinction is made in the diagnosis with fibromyalgia. The RIZIV agreement, which since 2014 regulates the operation and funding of the covenanted, multidisciplinary diagnostic centers for CVS, makes a diagnosis possible by a specialised multidisciplinary team. This diagnosis takes into account the fact that the symptoms affecting patients can be caused by a variety of causes and, therefore, the search for possible biomedical explanations for which appropriate treatment can be initiated. Some patients suffering from chronic fatigue syndrome may learn to cope better with their disease by cognitive behavioral therapy. If patients succeed, this can also lead to a milding of their symptoms and better professional integration or reintegration, without a definitive cure. At present, only the UZ Leuven has concluded the RIZIV agreement on the diagnosis and treatment of CVS. That is also the essence of Mrs Jadin's question, particularly why there are no centres in French-speaking Belgium. There just haven't been any candidates. Mr de Caluwé also raised a question on the fourth recommendation of the resolution, in particular on guidelines for the supervisory and advisory doctors and on possibilities for a partial resumption of work. In recent years, a lot of attention has been paid to the question of how consultative doctors can best deal with patients suffering from CVS or other conditions for which no biomedical explanation can be found. The possibilities that have existed for many years for the sick to partially resume work can certainly also be used by CVS patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Patients with CVS have a series of symptoms for which there are a number of treatments, but the complexity of the disease often suggests that these patients are not really ill, but have psychological problems. That often leads to a negative connotation. However, CVS is considered worldwide to be a serious condition that has far-reaching consequences for the patient. The resolution was discussed in 2015 on the basis of 20,000 to 25,000 patients. That costs the government a lot of money, but even worse is that it also costs the patient a lot of money and especially a lot of suffering. Increasing knowledge of the problem is therefore extremely important. You are right to say that a great deal of responsibility lies with the regions. We will certainly ask the regional colleagues about this. I do welcome the continued attention you have given to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u18	Mr President, the question is therefore about the special professional title nurse specializing in medical imaging. There are two types of professionals in medical imaging: the nurses medical imaging and the technologist medical imaging. From IFIC's perspective, these functions can be treated quite similarly. That is why they are placed under the same function when making up IFIC, with a dual title:'medical/technologist medical imaging'. In a first maintenance procedure of IFIC, the job description was reviewed in 2018, following several appeals indicating that the job description was not satisfactory. IFIC then organised hearings with stakeholders and the sector, and also carried out a legal review on the basis of the rules in force. IFIC also did that for several other functions. Based on research, it was established in 2021 that few changes appeared necessary for the description of the position of the nurse/technologist. The investigation also did not indicate that it was necessary to reweight the function. The nurse/technologist medical imaging was retained in the same category. However, the professional association of nurses medical imaging has indicated that it wishes to have a separate function for nurses. Therefore, IFIC provides for a new maintenance on the ground in 2025. At present there are 11 special professional qualifications and six special professional qualifications, ten of which are recognition criteria. The specialization of medical imaging is therefore not the only specialization to which no recognition criteria apply. Moreover, the premium introduced in 2010 for the special professional qualifications and professional qualifications, which has since been integrated into IFIC, has been granted only to nurses who are recognised for a title or competence and who actually participate in a recognised department, position or care programme which also provides for this specialisation. The standards of the medical imaging department do not provide for the presence of a nurse specializing in medical imaging. The competence for standards of hospital services falls within the competence of the Communities and the Regions. So I cannot change the issue of standardisation either. That is an important contradiction in answering your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u19	Minister, I note that the 2025 timeline is still used for reweighting. However, I have to say that the group in question is always overlooked when it comes to remuneration. The IFIC score, which is now potentially reweighted in 2025, also does not include a premium in terms of their title. However, they have also been on the frontline in the fight against the pandemic. I certainly do not need to convince you that medical imaging is important in making a correct diagnosis. So I can only hope that by 2025 they will finally get the recognition they have been waiting for for a while and to which they are also entitled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u20	Mr President, I will make only one speech on these two issues. Minister, the Royal Decree of 25 November 2005 contains a number of criteria concerning the training, hygiene and infrastructure required to practise the profession of tattoo artist. Today, however, I am reminded that foreign professionals come to practice in our territory, sometimes without training, without VAT numbers and with questionable inks. Some then leave the territory and return to their country of origin, having a serious impact on consumer health and the profession as a whole. As we discussed earlier in your policy brief, I know that you are concerned about the subject. In a previous oral question I asked you at the end of 2020, you said that the royal decree of 2005 was probably obsolete and deserved an update. You proposed that the Higher Council of Health give an up-to-date global opinion on this topic. Minister, have you received complaints from tattooers' representatives about the illegal practices of some practitioners, especially foreign practitioners? Has a new opinion been requested from the Higher Health Council regarding the profession of tattooers and, if so, when is it expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u21	Mr Prévot, as you indicate, the profession of tattooer is regulated at the level of public health by the Royal Decree of 25 November 2005, which contains a number of criteria concerning the training, hygiene and infrastructure required to practise this profession. The implementation of this Order requires that these obligations be made more binding and that enforcement measures be taken. The control of tattoo salons also requires cooperation between several administrations, as it involves checking the quality of the products used, but also, in some cases, compliance with tax or social legislation. Furthermore, the training of professionals is carried out by the federated entities and, since tattooers are not health professionals, the regime applicable to them falls within the competence of the Minister of the Economy and the Secretary of State for Consumer Protection. Before seeking an opinion from the Higher Council of Health, which will certainly be able to identify the points of attention and priorities in terms of risks for the population, which is increasingly numerous to make use of this type of benefit, I wish to put in place an effective procedure for the approval and control of professionals. I look forward to proposals from my administration in this regard in consultation with the various administrations and other levels of authority concerned. My administration has received a number of ad hoc complaints and deals with them diligently and in collaboration with the administration responsible for product control and, where appropriate, with the assistance of the police in relation to tax and social offences. I have been alerted by representatives of tattooers about illegal practices by some practitioners, especially foreigners. But it is very complex to carry out large-scale control policies, because, as you point out, when it comes to foreign professionals coming to our territory sometimes without a VAT number and for a very short period of time, detection is very difficult. That is why, in my view, it is necessary to strengthen existing requirements and to better inform the clients who use these professionals. I will not fail to keep you informed of the progress of this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answer. It's actually one of my marottes. I understand that implementation requires implementing measures. I hear that you are in contact with the sector, but I can tell you that those who work properly are sick of it that we throw reproach on the whole profession because of some who do everything and above all anything, and demand an update of the legislation to avoid these illegal practices. Indeed, when it comes to foreign practitioners returning to their country, the difficulty is twofold. But you have to be able to stop them. Another problem which is also regularly put on the table by these practitioners is that of training. In fact, today, if you wish, you can become a tattooer, Minister, on a visit from the AFSCA. There is a real concern at this level. Practitioners would therefore like to see this aspect addressed as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u23	Minister, a worrying study in France has shown that new lung cancer cases have affected women in 34% of cases in 2020, compared to 18% in 2018. There has been a dramatic increase in the number of screenings for lung cancer among women. While the proportion of this disease tends to decrease among men, the opposite phenomenon appears in women. In addition, male smoking has fallen sharply. However, according to the 2017 study by Santé publique France, nearly 24% of women aged 18 to 75 reported smoking every day, compared with 30% of men. Minister, what about the figures in Belgium for lung cancer in women? Are we also aware of the same worrying increase as in France? What are the reasons for this? Is tobacco also the leading cause of lung cancer among women? What strategies can be put in place to limit the number of lung cancers and prevent them from becoming, as in the United States, the most deadly cancer for women?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u24	Mr Rigot, figures on lung cancer among women in Belgium are available in the reports of the Cancer Registry Foundation. It shows that in 2016, it was the third most common cancer in women. It occurs more frequently in older people. The average age of diagnosis in women is 67.7 years. The incidence of lung cancer among women in our country varies greatly from region to region. According to the same Foundation, in recent years, increased chances of survival have accelerated in cancer patients. This trend is particularly noticeable for lung cancer, for which clear progress has been made. The three-year survival of a lung cancer patient increased from 19% in 2004 to 24% in 2013 and then to 29% in 2016. The gain is more significant for small cell lung cancers, which account for 85% of lung cancers. The risk of lung cancer among women increased by approximately 7% between 2003 and 2016. According to the Cancer incidence projections in Belgium 2015-2025 report of the Cancer Registry Foundation, which aims to present forecasts of cancer incidence in Belgium for this period, lung cancer diagnoses, all morphologies combined, are expected to increase by 26%. Among women in particular, the projections predict an increase of almost 58 per cent compared to 12 per cent among men. This increase is expected mainly to affect the oldest population in the 50-74 and 75-year-old age groups. These increases can be explained by the number of women who smoke, an increase that began in the 1960s. Smoking is recognized as a risk factor for lung, bladder, esophagus, neck and head cancer. In addition to smoking, air pollution is also a recognized risk factor. The scientific literature states that 85-90% of lung cancers are caused by tobacco. The total duration of smoking appears to be a greater risk factor than the intensity of smoking. The beginning age also plays a role and it is found that a former smoker remains more exposed than a non-smoker who has never smoked. Passive smoking is also a risk factor whose impact is greater if the exposed person is young. Other risk factors are intense and repeated exposure to substances such as arsenic, asbestos, nickel, chromium, tar, etc. Air pollution - mainly fine particles emitted by diesel engines - slightly increases the risk of lung cancer in people living in the immediate vicinity of major roads. Tobacco control is therefore a priority in the prevention of lung cancer. As announced in my policy note, a series of actions are planned within this framework. Indeed, the policy on the consumption of psychoactive substances, the tobacco of which will be the subject of inter-federal coordination within the framework of the General Drug Policy Unit (CGPD) of the CIM Santé publique. A scientific study will be carried out with the aim of assessing current regulations, the effectiveness of policy measures, interventions in the field of prevention, assistance, including the management of insurance and follow-up care, including risk attention measures. Specific working groups will focus on the implementation of a long-term national strategy with clear objectives to reduce smoking prevalence among young people and among the general population. The objective is a tobacco-free generation by continuing to reduce the attractiveness and accessibility of tobacco, in line with the European Commission's objective of having a tobacco-free generation in the European Union by 2040. Among the measures advanced are the identification of the increase in excise duties on tobacco which is an important measure in this context, the adaptation of existing legislation, as well as the controls carried out by the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment (SPF SPSCAE). Indeed, an adaptation of the legislation on electronic cigarettes, the Royal Decree of 2016, is expected in 2022, as well as an adaptation of the legislation on tobacco products. It's another 2016 order. Legislation on new products proposed for sale as substitutes for tobacco products is also foreseen. As part of our inspections, in addition to regular checks, special attention will be paid to new products entering the market and to compliance with the legal obligation to notify tobacco products and electronic cigarettes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u25	Minister, thank you. You confirm with your data and your particularly detailed answer that the studies carried out in France result in the same alarming findings in Belgium. As you mentioned, the increase in the number of cases of lung cancer among women is significant, the first cause being smoking. I agree with you absolutely and 2000 % on the need to put all our energy into the fight against tobacco for a tobacco-free future generation. This will certainly involve cooperation with the federated entities, a policy of prevention and also a policy of tightening sanctions on derivatives or tobacco products. There is a real need to increase the fight to put an end to this scourge, which could be greatly reduced if people simply stopped smoking.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u26	Minister, there is a worrying increase in cases of myopia. According to the latest projections, half of the world's population will be myopic in 2050. Genetic and hereditary factors exist: the presence of myopia in one of the parents would double the risk to his children. The environment also seems to play a crucial role in the development and worsening of myopia. The researchers agree that myopia is favored by increased indoor time, lack of exposure to natural light, or over-stretching of vision. We really are facing a public health issue. If half of the world's population becomes myopic within 30 years, it will not without consequences on the costs of our public health. Is there a public health policy on this issue? In Belgium, what are the existing screenings? Are there preventive treatments for children of myopic parents? What are the solutions to prevent or slow the progression of myopia? How can citizens be made more aware of this problem? Several Asian countries have paved the way by setting up centres dedicated exclusively to medical care and research on pathological myopia. What about Belgium? How can such an increase be explained in developed countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u27	Dear colleague, myopia develops mainly during school years and is therefore more common in older children and adults than in younger ones. The cause of myopia is complex. In addition to genetic factors, environmental factors also play a role, such as playing little outside and looking very closely during reading or using screens. Pathologies such as myopic maculopathy and optical neuropathy in highly myopic eyes can lead to significant irreversible visual impairment and blindness. In addition, myopia increases the risk of other pathological eye changes such as cataract, glaucoma and retina detachment, all of which can cause irreversible vision loss. In addition, myopia increases the risk of other pathological eye changes such as cataract, glaucoma and retina detachment, all of which can lead to loss of irreversible vision. Several recent scientific publications do indeed report an increase in myopia. The number of people with myopia in 2020 is estimated at 2.6 billion worldwide and is expected to reach 4.9 billion by 2050. The expected prevalence of myopia by 2050 is 65% of the population in Asia, 56% in Western Europe, 54% in Central Europe and 50% in Eastern Europe. Accurate figures on the prevalence of myopia in Belgium are not available because it is not systematically recorded. The Federal Centre for Health Care Expertise conducted a study in 2013 on eye refractive defects, where a survey of a sample of the population showed that seven out of ten respondents reported eye defects, of which 38.4% were myopia. A recent study of free mutualities on vision problems in children shows that myopia is the most common refractive error in adolescents. Its prevalence increases with age, as I said. Almost non-existent among young children is 3 to 10 per cent among children aged 10, one in five among 18-year-olds, and even 40 to 50 per cent among adults. The results of the study show that nearly one in five teenagers wear glasses. This would be mainly a myopia. Scientific research over the past five to six decades suggests that environmental factors are responsible for the observed increase in the prevalence of myopia, including outdoor time, community work, and the use of computers and smartphones. The main measures that can be taken to prevent the development of myopia and to reduce the progression of myopia include the intervention of public health care, lifestyle, optimisation of environmental influences, pharmacological approach with topical application of atropine ophthalmic drops, use of an optical device such as glasses and multifocal contact lenses. It is widely demonstrated that less community work and more outdoor activity protect against the development of myopia. The 20-20-2 rule is a good way to help prevent or reduce the risk of myopia: for 20 minutes of close vision, look away for 20 seconds and play outside for at least two hours a day. The World Health Organization recommends that no screen time be given to children under two years of age and no more than one hour of screen time to children between two and four years of age. As you know, the federated entities are competent for organizing public awareness campaigns and testing. The federated entities organize the detection of vision problems. Young children are screened by Kind en Gezin, ONE and Kaleido Ostbelgien. From school age onwards, children are monitored by the medico-curricular services (???, the CLB and Kaleido Ostbelgien). In case of abnormal results, the child is referred to the ophthalmologist or doctor treating the child. Parents may also refer the child to the ophthalmologist in case of concern. If the child is referred to the ophthalmologist by one of these institutions or the attending physician, it is important to follow up on them. By intervening in time, more serious problems can be avoided. Parents play a crucial role in this regard. Early detection of growing vision problems is necessary to avoid aggravation or to correct problems. All children should be screened for risk factors for ambleopia and other vision problems by the age of three. In addition to the federated entities, parents, relatives and the general practitioner have an important role in this area. With regard to the centres dedicated to the management and research of pathological myopia, reference should be made to the studies of the Federal Centre of Expertise in Health Care on eye refraction. Indeed, adults with eye refraction – myopia, hypermetropy and astigmatism – can be treated with surgery. About 3% of myopic, hypermetropic, and astigmatous people would now move towards corrective surgery. Refractive surgery is not reimbursed by compulsory health insurance, but some patients can obtain partial reimbursement through their supplementary insurance. This can be done in a hospital setting or in an extra-mural eye surgery centre. The publication of the Quality of Care Practice Law of 2019, which comes into force in 2022, ensures the quality of care in these extramural centres. There you are, Mr. Rigot, the answers to your questions!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u28	Minister, I have no comment to add. Your answer is detailed. I see we're making it a priority. I also realize, as you mentioned, that this is a federal jurisdiction, but above all a federal jurisdiction, when it comes to prevention, awareness-raising and testing. I hope that the message can be sent to parents, general practitioners and teachers so that we can take things with the body or rather with the heart to avoid having, in the future, 50% of our myopic population with the dramatic consequences that this can have, even to the point of blindness.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u29	Minister, in December 2020, the Sciensano Health Survey reported a strong 21% increase in respondents taking sleeping pills and tranquilizers compared to 13% in 2018. Tranquilizers are neither anodized nor without consequence. Taking it is one thing, doing it without respecting the time and duration possible is even worse and can cause undesirable side effects or even habituation. Unfortunately, this is often the case with an exceeding of the limitation period. "These Z drugs, including zolpidem, sometimes have a reputation for safety, which would be totally wrong," says Professor Petrovic. In the early 2000s, an increasing number of studies showed that zolpidem causes as much habituation as benzodiazepines. Minister, since 2018, the AFMPS has reported an increase in sales of zolpidem. Analysis of the medical records showed that more zolpidem was sold than the recommended doses for all patients who had been prescribed the drug. So it can be said that there is an overconsumption of this medicine. How can the prescriber enforce the recommended doses as well as the timing of consumption? Can controls be carried out? Is an awareness-raising campaign to draw the attention of doctors and consumers to the dependence effect and side effects of drugs Z possible? It is known that these drugs can cause abnormal behaviour during sleep. What do you think of the introduction of a "black box warning" for such medicines? The package leaflet should contain a very visible warning in a black frame that indicates the possibility of abnormal behaviour during sleep.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u30	Mr. Secretary, the corona pandemic made more people grab sleep and tranquilizers. Sciensano's survey reported a remarkable increase, since 21 percent of those questioned were taking sleep and tranquilizers, while in 2018 they were only 13 percent. A survey carried out by the FAGG also shows that sleeping and tranquilizers are often taken much longer than the maximum two weeks prescribed by the medical guidelines. Zolpidem and zopiclon were introduced in the 1980s as a safer alternative to addictive benzos. According to the first clinical studies, these Z-medicines would lead to a less rapid onset of habitation. For that reason zolpidem became one of the most popular sleeping drugs ever. In the meantime, these findings have long been overtaken by science. The list of undesirable effects also continued to expand, especially with long-term use. The analysis of medical records showed that more zolpidem was sold than the recommended doses for all patients given the medicine together. In the United States, complex sleep behaviour after taking zolpidem already led to 20 deaths. Some cases of abnormal sleep behaviour have also been reported to us in zolpidem users. Partly because of this abnormal sleep behaviour, the FDA has introduced a black box warning for the Z medicines, which means that the package leaflet must contain a very striking warning in a black box with a reference to the possibility of abnormal sleep behaviour. In addition, the FDA proposes to reduce the recommended dose from 10 to 5 milligrams. Mr Minister, are you planning actions to raise awareness about the use of sleeping aid in doctors and patients? Do you also see the best practices from America and possibly from other countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u31	The survey conducted in 2020 by the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (AFMPS) on the use of benzodiazepines and related drugs did indeed show that zolpidem was the most widely used sleeping pill among respondents and is often used for a significantly longer period than recommended, increasing the risk of addiction. The summary of the characteristics of products containing zolpidem contains information for prescribers on the maximum dose and duration of use. The prescriber is responsible for his behaviour as a prescriber, but he may, however, consider that in some cases it is necessary to depart from the recommendations, which is possible within the framework of the freedom of prescription. No systematic monitoring is performed if the maximum dose and duration of use are met. In 2013, the BelPEP expert platform was created. The aim is to achieve a more appropriate use of psychotropic substances, including benzodiazepines and Z-Drugs. Several campaigns have been launched to raise awareness among health professionals on this issue. Support tools and training are also offered, particularly to general practitioners in order to support them in their practice. You can find all the information on www.somniferesetcalmants.be to make health professionals and the public aware of these practices. The AFMPS issued a communiqué in September 2021 on the rational use of benzodiazepines and Z-Drugs, including practical recommendations. My teams are preparing a new awareness campaign around the rational use of benzodiazepines and Z-Drugs but also antidepressants for general practitioners, pharmacists, psychologists and, indirectly, patients via waiting rooms. New aid tools and trainings have been developed and will be disseminated in the second part of the year as widely as possible. The pharmacist also has an important role to play in educating consumers about possible side effects and the risk of addiction. The risk of sleepwalking and complex sleep behaviour is known and described in detail in the Summary of Product Characteristics (SPC) and the package leaflet for Stilnoct, a medicinal product containing zolpidem. Health care professionals and patients are advised that this may occur after the first use or subsequent use of zolpidem and that the risk of such behaviour is increased when alcohol or other central nervous system depressants are used concomitantly and when zolpidem is used at doses above the recommended maximum dose. It is also indicated in the SPC and package leaflet that if the patient has complex sleep behaviour, treatment should be stopped immediately and reuse contraindicated. Regarding abnormal sleep behaviour, the Belgian Centre for Pharmacotherapeutic Information, an ASBL funded by AFMPS and responsible for disseminating independent information on medicines, published an article on this risk on its website in 2019. Other risks, such as dependency, are certainly as important and even more frequent as that of abnormal behaviour.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u32	Minister, our society has been terribly shaken by the crisis of the Covid-19. Many are those for whom sleep is difficult to find and yet necessary. I believe it is necessary to work on awareness-raising, prevention, but also, even if I respect the autonomy of doctors and their right to prescribe, to ensure that they do not have too much hand. Physicians should be careful not to guide patients to the drug's shelter, even if they usually start by asking to work on the consequences of their illness before they can work on the causes. It is with this state of mind that we must move forward: to reduce the drugs that can limit the consequences of malaise and work, over time, in the context of mental health, on the causes to avoid this refuge in antidepressants, which can hide serious consequences for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u33	Thank you, Minister. The figures on the use of sleeping and tranquilizers speak for themselves. It is crucial to raise awareness. In the meantime, I also found the toolbook you were referring to. That seems very interesting to me; I will look into it over the next few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u34	Minister, my question is a transition to the problem we have just discussed. Our society suffers, for the moment, from an important evil, which also affects our teenagers. A study of Free Mutualities on the use of antidepressants and psychotherapeutic benefits in adolescents sheds light on a problem that remains underdiagnosed. In the 12-18 age group, major depression is considered alarming. She's very present. In 2020, 6 out of 10 teenagers took antidepressants for less than 6 months. Finally, the study shows that about half of adolescents taking antidepressants also use psychotherapy. Minister, do you confirm the figures from the study of Free Mutualities? In the face of this scourge and the warning cry of adolescents, which must be heard, what solutions within the reforms carried out, involving in the same movement the federal, regional and community competences, target young people between the ages of 12 and 18? A carte blanche signed by 83 French-speaking Belgian children and psychiatrists informs us that the number of applications for the care of young people is such that today the healthcare staff can no longer take care of them all within the necessary time. Lack of places, lack of care professionals: in short, you will have understood, the situation and the consequences for young people are dramatic! What solutions and initiatives do you intend to take in the short and medium term to try to solve this problem in the best possible way?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u35	Thank you, Mr. Rigot. I would point out in passing that there is a defective camera in this room, so we don't see the speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u36	Mr President, it's very good: I didn't go to the hairdresser.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u37	Mr Rigot, it goes without saying that I take note of the studies carried out by mutualities among their members. It is evident that these are studies that focus on members of a specific mutuality. It may therefore be problematic to generalise the results of these studies and apply them to the Belgian population as a whole or to a specific age cohort of this population as a whole. I think these are still important signals. The evolution of INAMI spending on antidepressants, the ATCN06A class, issued to children and young people from zero to 20 years of age for the period 2016 to 2020, shows that there is an increase in the number of children and young people taking antidepressants. Growth is higher in the Flemish Region than in the other Regions. Growth is visible in children 11 years of age and older while there is a reduction in the group of younger children up to 10 years of age. For the moment, it is not explained why the consumption of antidepressants has increased but the question is currently being studied within the BelPEP platform, which I mentioned in a previous answer: the Belgian Psychotropics Experts Platform. I assume that the measures I took last year, specifically to improve mental health care for our young people, are well known. So I won't develop them here. You know that this is an agreement that INAMI has reached with the sector to significantly extend psychological assistance in the first line. This agreement is now gradually being deployed on the ground. I also believe that it is important that the possibilities of this Convention be implemented very quickly. I have therefore asked the coordinator of mental health care networks to speed up the pace of development on the ground and of what is possible thanks to this agreement of July 2021. In addition, you know that I have strengthened the staff of the child-psychiatric services and the forensic units For-K. I have expanded mobile crisis teams for children and adolescents and have established liaison teams that can be deployed, among other things, paediatric services. You know that I have also taken specific ad hoc measures to help students in difficulty or in need of some psychological help. This year, I will launch an additional investment of EUR 35 million. Within this framework, networks for children and adolescents in mental health care will be able to choose, depending on the needs of each area of activity, to place more emphasis on home care, in addition, for example, to the provision of additional crisis beds. The objective is for each area of activity to carry out, by June at the latest, a detailed analysis of the available supply and priority needs within the budget allocated to it. I read about the carte blanche signed by 83 child psychologists and Francophone psychologists. What struck me most was that these caregivers were unanimous in highlighting broader social responsibility in the emergence of mental health problems among young people. That is why I cannot overemphasize the importance of Health in all policies, in this case Mental health in all policies. In all policy areas, actions and initiatives should always be tested in advance as to what effect they could have on the mental well-being of our young people. After all, mental health providers face these effects on a daily basis, particularly with an increasing number of admissions reporting increasingly complex mental health problems. In line with the White Paper's reasoning, I hope that you have also asked this question to my colleagues responsible for other policy areas both within the federal government and in the governments of the federated entities. I believe that there is a need for a broad approach to mental health.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answers. I do agree with your analysis: First of all, the data??- Is that what you're saying? concern, as you say, the affiliates of this mutuality. It is true that some of these figures need to be relativized. They're worrying and you're worried about them. I welcome the number of actions that you have already implemented. It's impressive in a few months. You have made this priority one of your battle horses. You are right to say that this is a social and cross-cutting responsibility. Therefore, I will not fail to question your competent counterparts at the federal level and to ask my colleagues from the federated entities to do the same in order to adopt a cross-cutting and general approach to go as quickly and as best as possible in order to provide an answer to all our teenagers who need to know that we are listening to them and that we will ensure that, tomorrow, they take much less of these damn antidepressants.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u39	Given their absence, Ms. Sofie Merckx and Ms. Kathleen Depoorter's questions become irrelevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u40	Mr President, Minister, I introduced my question to ask you about your willingness at the time to turn the Covid Safe Ticket (CST) into a vaccine pass, while 12 of the 18 scientific experts interviewed in our work on compulsory vaccination and vaccine pass have very clearly questioned the usefulness of the same CST. In their view, if the CST could have had a motivating effect on vaccination, it would not have had the desired effect on health: it gave a false sense of security, did not allow for the exclusion of infected and contagious people and did not take into account the dynamics of the epidemic, not to mention that it was vitiated by numerous frauds or that it completely disregarded all possibilities of social life, and therefore of infection, in sectors that were not subject to the same CST. The vaccine pass – which was to be the extension of this CST – was also strongly criticized during these hearings, as it would exclude people cured of the covid-19 and thus have some immunity, and increase polarization within our society. Today, this CST is disabled, but we all know that it is only temporary since it would be enough to go back to orange code to see the CST reactivated. This would be a decision that should be taken by the Codeco, as you have said recently. However, this CST has never – contrary to what you have already said – been evaluated! Like Commissioner Corona, each time you rely solely on studies on health care in France, Italy, Germany, but never on the CST in Belgium. Minister, are you going to take advantage of the suspension of the Covid Safe Ticket to finally evaluate the health effectiveness of the device in Belgium and, if necessary, decide to remove it, even independently of the barometer's colour codes? Has GEMS been mandated to conduct this evaluation? If so, on the basis of what data? If not, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u41	Mr. Secretary, the PVDA has always resisted the coronapas. We believe that it is inefficient and also leads to polarisation. What had to be a form of travel pass was actually quickly turned into a hidden vaccination obligation. The data show that any extension of the CST did not bring any significant increase in the number of first doses of the vaccine administered. The total vaccination rate has not increased since the introduction of the coronapas. Moreover, the majority of experts in the hearings in our committee believe that the CST can no longer be considered a sanitary measure. Furthermore, legal specialist Marc Verdussen mentioned the fact that when the travel pass and the CST were announced, it was not said that it would serve to limit certain places in society, an error. Yet you intend to keep the CST alive. Even if it doesn't apply today, it was stuck in the barometer, the toolbox, as you sometimes call it. Even more, despite the strongly negative advice, you and your party apparently want to replace the coronapas with a vaccination pass. Minister, how should the CST still be seen as a sanitary measure, since the vaccines are no guarantee that the virus will not be transmitted? What are your plans regarding the time limit for replacing the corona pass with a vaccination pass? By the way, are they still up-to-date? How can you justify a vaccination pass, given the many negative opinions during the hearings on compulsory vaccination?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u42	Mr Warmoes, you have said that your party has opposed the CST, but it would be more accurate to say that your party, the PVDA, has really opposed any measure we have proposed in the fight against the virus, whether it is about child mouth masks, the closing hour for the cafes or the CST. You were systematically against it. So I'm not surprised you're against the CST either. But I'm closing this couple's thesis. I do not really want to anticipate the discussion that we should be having in the Consultative Committee on the CST. That's what we agreed on. It has been said in the Consultation Committee that we would reflect on the future of this instrument on the basis of the opinions available and on the basis of the debates that have taken place in the various Parliaments. Those debates have been important. As far as I am concerned, the conclusion is quite frankly not that such an instrument is of no use at all. I would like to repeat that. What does an instrument like that do? Well, it makes sure that when people come together they have to show a test certificate, or a vaccination certificate, or proof that they have recently been cured, which makes that meeting less risky than a meeting in which those documents are not requested. An important condition is, of course, that people's behaviour does not change in a risky way, because when people think that there is no risk anymore, it goes wrong. I've made the equation before, but I want to make it again. If the doctor prescribes you statins because you have a problem with cholesterol, and you take those statins carefully but you eat fries with mayonnaise every day, you don't do sports and never come out, it won't be so good for your health. If you think you can do that because you're taking those statins, maybe it's not right at all. That does not at all prove that it is not an effective medicine in itself. That does say something about accompanying behaviour, which is necessary, and about the context in which something is introduced. We really need to distinguish between the principle of an instrument, asking that people who come together for an activity where there is a risk of infection have either been vaccinated or tested negative or have recently been ill on the one hand, and what happens if that instrument is wrongly understood as a free-conductor to abandon any caution. That broader debate actually applies also to vaccination. For a while many people had the idea that if one was vaccinated, one would no longer be at risk. That's as crazy as thinking that whoever wears a seatbelt in the car is no longer at risk of getting hurt. or that anyone who scruplesly respects speed limits is not at all at risk. Of course it isn't. What we have learned over the past period is that we must pursue an en- en-en policy. It is vaccination, when a lot of virus goes around wearing mouth masks, a test policy. Indeed, a coronapas can be helpful to allow activities to take place safer, always on the condition that people doubt that such security is not absolute. Mrs Rohonyi, I believe that the difficulty we are encountering in Belgium with regard to evaluation and the reason why we often refer to France results from the fact that we have introduced the CST incrementally, step by step, by drop in a certain sense. It is therefore very difficult to see a decisive impact, given the very incremental way of introduction. It is much easier to see the impact in France where, suddenly, there was a major break in politics with a fairly broad introduction of this instrument. In fact, I regret the fact that we did not follow this example. I am not saying that we should have followed the French example in all its dimensions, but introducing such an instrument in a hesitant, step-by-step way, as we have known in our own country rather than in a decisive, well-coordinated way, makes evaluation difficult. You may know that I am an economist and, in econometrics, we need a certain clear discontinuity in events to assess the impact of an intervention. It is therefore not surprising that we often refer to the French example instead of the Belgian example, given the gradual, incremental, somewhat hesitant introduction of this instrument in Belgium. How should it be used in the future? Should it be used on the basis of its three dimensions (vaccination, negative test, healing)? Should one day perhaps be passed to a "1G" instrument, a vaccine pass? I don't want to get ahead of decisions, but what's important to me is to be well prepared and that's where I'm actually a little worried. I have the impression that with the passage to the yellow code of our barometer, which indicates that there is always a circulation of the virus, that with the lifting of a whole series of measures, people think that the epidemic is part of the past and that it is no longer necessary to be prepared. I think we need to be well prepared. Being well prepared means having a clear assessment of an instrument such as the CST. And, if the evaluation indicates that this instrument, in one form or another, may be useful in the future, the legal basis, the legal framework for its activation must be prepared. That's my vision of things. As in the context of the debate on the vaccination obligation, it is not a question of launching it immediately and using it tomorrow. This instrument must be used when necessary, but the legal framework must be provided to avoid months of preparation for legistical work in order to launch it. This is one of the questions that will arise at the level of the Consultation Committee. Is it agreed that this is an instrument that, in either form, can be useful in an epidemiological emergency? If we are convinced that the instrument can be useful, can we have a permanent legislative framework that allows us to launch it quickly if we want to activate it? I would like to add another thought. The evolution of the figures over the past few days shows that we really cannot think that the epidemic is over. This underlines the need to think with a cool mind not only about tools such as CST and vaccination campaigns, but also about other instruments in the future. There's no reason to panic about the rising infections today. Some of them were predicted. The increases aren't explosive. There's a lot of viral circulation and it's increasing. Hospitalisations are also increasing. The hospitals are under pressure, because first of all people are admitted not because of covid, but because of covid. This brings with it additional concerns, among other things, with regard to insulation. A second reason for the pressure on a number of hospitals is the flu epidemic, which evolves to a second peak of moderate intensity. These two factors, combined with the fact that hospitals are catching up with care, put a lot of pressure on a number of hospitals. Firstly, I would like to call on the people to pay attention to this and, as in the past, to show a degree of solidarity with the hospitals, where there is a lot of pressure again today. Of course, I also call on the people to be careful of themselves. This means that we must maintain the measures taken, such as the obligation to wear a mouth mask on public transport and the pharmacist and the general practitioner. I think we need to maintain it for a while, that we all have to be careful and that we need a positive culture in relation to the mouth mask. We have to think it's normal that some people, even though it's not mandatory, walk into the store with a mouth mask, because they feel a little vulnerable. It's a good thing people are thinking about that. I would also like us to look positively at instruments such as a corona certificate, which, if used properly, can help to make our lives safer. Covid's not really out of the world. That's a very big mistake. The fact that the situation may be manageable for a few months does not mean that after the summer we will not be able to get back into severe weather again. This has historically happened with the major flu epidemics, which have lasted several years. We ended up in heavy weather years after the first waves with severe waves. This historic lesson must not be forgotten. I'll come back to your question. I started my answer a little polemically, because we cannot always look so negatively at the measures taken. We need to evaluate them with a sober head. If several people think they're useful, whatever the CST I think, we need to take the necessary steps to get those instruments ready for use, so that it doesn't take an endless amount of effort to re-activate them. That is the kind of debate I want to have in the federal government and, in the Conciliation Committee, returning to what the people in the street should be doing. Today we must not forget that, since the epidemic is not gone, we simply have to be extremely careful and maintain the good habits we have learned, and I recommend all listeners to get their booster shot.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u43	Minister, I want to clarify things. Unlike the PTB, my party has supported you in the development of certain health measures. This was in particular the case of the CST, in any case originally because our hopes were placed in this instrument in combination with other instruments. The problem is that today, this CST has never been evaluated. This assessment is still lacking, so you are telling us today that we are going to think about the future of this CST on the basis of the opinions that are available. What are these opinions? You are also telling us that this reflection will take place in the context of the debates that have taken place in Parliament, when, as I said in the introduction, a large part of the experts we have had the opportunity to hear in Parliament have questioned in a fairly clear and virulent way the usefulness of this CST. My question, therefore, is whether you are prepared to follow these advices by terminating this CST. Or are you going to put in place an objective evaluation of this CST? In any case, I believe that the need for this assessment remains relevant, even if we are to remain in yellow code. As I said, this CST could be reactivated. This could be done in the coming weeks or months. We can see that Sciensano's figures are on the rise. You also said earlier that we had to be very careful with this relative calm, that we had to prepare ourselves and that we had to prepare ourselves with a legal basis for the activation of this CST. I fully agree to have a legal framework, which would also allow us to avoid unnecessary waste of time with a new cooperation agreement. I wonder, however, why you are in favour of developing a legal framework to activate the CST but not for the vaccination obligation. This has indeed been a true niet on the part of the overall Vivaldi majority this morning concerning the generalised vaccination obligation, whereas these are two tools which are perfectly complementary and which must be seen as the same range of tools against the virus. Finally, each time you quote the example of France. You say it's easy to evaluate the effectiveness of the vaccine pass. But the objective of the vaccination pass in France was finally much more honest than in Belgium, since it was clearly said that this vaccination pass was intended to push for vaccination, where, in Belgium, we were told first that it was to participate in activities safely, which in fact was a false safety. I would like to urge you, Minister, to evaluate this CST objectively and, in addition to that, to put in place your ventilation plan. We're still waiting for your bill. There is also a need to raise the level of health care staff because it is this lack of staff that is still a problem. It is this set of measures that must ultimately enable us to avoid a measure as ineffective as it is disproportionate that has become the CST today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u44	Minister, I must of course reply to your attempt to put us in the corner of those who are against everything, but of course that is not true. Apparently, that's what Mrs. Rohonyi needs, too. For starters, under your predecessor, we were still screaming for adult mouth masks when there were no mouth masks. We have also supported you in rolling out the vaccination strategy and developing everything related to testing and tracing systems as well as all preventive measures, such as ventilation and CO2 meters. In the broader sense, of course, we have always advocated investment in health care. More importantly, we have joined forces with our doctors of Medicine for the People, along with other doctors of the first line. We have participated in testing, in source research and contact research, and also very important discussion of vaccination with our patients to convince them, because we do believe in science. In this way we were able to remove their questions and doubts about vaccination. So it's not true that we're against everything. We are opposed to the more repressive approach. You say that one should keep one's head sober, but the hearings show that there is no need for the CST now. It does not apply now, but you are still considering it, and it has been clearly said that it undermines the confidence of the people. That's the problem with that instrument.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u45	Mr Minister, there are signs that many schoolchildren have suffered from the pandemic. Logopedia is often a very good tool for helping children with learning difficulties. However, it appears that the quota of the maximum number of hours reimbursed is not sufficient in some cases. One of the factors is the problem of irregular didactic supply due to the covid pandemic. I refer to online lessons, the temporary closure of schools and the quarantine. There is therefore no denying that the exceptional corona period has affected many school children in their development and they could use additional support. Minister, I have a number of questions about this. Have you heard of an increase in applications for speech therapy through the sickness funds? If so, I'd like some key figures. In view of the corona problem, will you increase the maximum number of hours reimbursed, whether temporarily or not? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u46	Mrs Samyn, we do not actually have figures that indicate that the covid crisis as such has increased the demand for logopedic treatment. As I have already said, treatments already in progress before 1 March 2020 have been granted an extension of the maximum period during which the quota of sessions authorised by the nomenclature is granted, either at the start of the exceptional health insurance measures or after that date. That maximum period, which is two years in normal circumstances, may be extended for several exceptional periods of six months each, which may, as appropriate, extend the duration of treatment to three, three and a half or four years, if necessary. It was intended that the permitted sessions could be used over a longer period to compensate for periods where treatment was hampered by restrictions, school closures and quarantines of patients or providers, or simply as a precaution. The number of sessions of 30 minutes and therefore the total number of hours of concrete treatment has not been increased, as it is not clear that the pandemic as such and in itself leads to the need for more sessions for logopedic treatments. This is all the more true, since the practical difficulties mentioned above have, in fact, prevented a higher than normal rhythm of sessions. In fact, in normal circumstances the providers already adapt the rhythm to the therapeutic needs and distribute the sessions more or less for better efficiency in the course of treatment. If plenary sessions are postponed because of the practical difficulties mentioned above and at the same time the number of plenary sessions allowed is increased, the snowball effect of the high rate at which they need to be provided in order to exploit them all may be unsustainable, first and foremost for the patient, and certainly not for the benefit of therapeutic effectiveness. It is therefore not intended to increase the number of sessions specifically due to the pandemic. More generally, i.e. outside the covid period, the Convention Committee continuously evaluates the number of sessions per condition. In 2017, the number of sessions was revised in depth, with increases but also reductions in certain quotas when it appeared that the increase in the effectiveness of treatments even made it possible to reduce the number of sessions needed to achieve the desired goal. The hypothesis that the current number of sessions during the covid period or in general is insufficient and needs to be increased, taking together all logopedic disorders, must therefore be nuanced. The Agreement Committee will continue to ensure that the ideal number of sessions for each disorder is properly modulated over a certain period of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u47	Minister, it is a pity that you do not have any specific figures yet. After all, it cannot be denied that many schoolchildren have been affected in their development. As I said in my question, speech therapy is often a very good means of helping children with learning difficulties. It is indeed possible to extend that period because of corona. However, this is only valid if not all the assignments have been taken. Such extra support would be welcome for the children who have been disadvantaged in learning. An extension of the maximum number of hours refunded could have been an additional support. You are undoubtedly aware of the cost of speech therapy. A lot of families are already having a hard time. An increase in the number of hours would also have had a welcome financial impact.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u48	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Patrick Prévot's 55025157C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u49	Mr President, Minister, cross-border human assistance policy plays a crucial role in my region and in those bordering our country. Greater cooperation of our relief services must be implemented with our direct neighbours in order to protect and help our citizens in the best possible way. Nevertheless, I have received information relaying a failure for French services to assist individuals on Belgian territory, even though they were better able to help them in terms of distance and time. A Franco-Belgian agreement on urgent medical aid, signed in Tournai on 20 March 2007, agrees that Belgian and French SMURs may intervene in the other territory at the request of one centre in one of the two countries with the unified call system of the other. Article 16 of the Convention also states that "an annual consultation shall take place between the competent Belgian federal and regional ministers and the French Minister of Public Health or their representatives concerning the continued application of the agreements set out in this Convention, on the basis of the reports to be prepared for the Joint Commission of the Franco-Belgian Framework Agreement for Health Cooperation". Minister, what are your intentions in terms of improving cross-border cooperation on urgent medical aid? Could you give me details of the annual consultations between France and Belgium on the implementation of the agreements contained in the Convention I have just mentioned? Are there any structural problems in the implementation of this Convention? What procedure has been or can be implemented to remedy this, if any?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u50	Mr Senesael, cross-border cooperation was implemented very quickly after the signing of the Convention in March 2007 for the provinces of East Flanders, Hainaut, Namur and Luxembourg. The operational annexes provided for first-line areas of intervention for SMURs in the neighbouring country. Thus, French SMURs intervene in Belgium first and vice versa, provided that the SMUR is available and not already retained by another mission. I can give you the tables showing the interventions on the two sides of the border for East Flanders and Hainaut. The analysis shows that this cooperation works very well in both directions. Bilateral meetings are regularly held at least once a year, except in 2020 in the light of health conditions and there are five participants: the representative of the Regional Health Agency (ARS) and the Public Health FPS, the representative of the C15 SAMU and emergency centres 112, the representative of the Primary Health and Mutual Insurance Funds, the representatives of the various functions of the SMUR in France and Belgium and the experts invited in case of specific thematic issues. Communications between the UAS C15s and emergency services 112 take place without major problems. If the means of the other country are activated by the territorially competent power station, there is no longer any regulation between them. Also, if a French means is requested by a Belgian power station, the activation of the SMUR means is done directly without the regulator, which represents a significant saving of time. For effectors adjacent to the province of East Flanders and Hainaut, communications are mainly by mobile telephone between effectors and C15, CU 112 or if the numbers are known, between effectors themselves. For the provinces of Namur and Luxembourg, ASTRIDd radios were provided to French emergency mobile and resuscitation services. We can therefore say that cooperation between France and Belgium in the case of SMURs is an operational reality. However, we must mention the problem of the passage of Belgian ambulances approved in France 112. Indeed, an ambulance 112 can only be required by a CU 112 – thus Belgian – and is not allowed to operate in France with priority signals. In addition, French regulations allow patients to choose their hospital, which is not the case in Belgium. In Belgium, we apply the rule of the nearest hospital. Finally, the transport of patients by an ambulance 112 Belgian gives rise to an invoice (indexed) charged to the patient of 60 euros, while the transport is free for the patient in France. Another problem is the transfer of data between institutions. This transfer exists but it could be improved in its form and speed. On these two issues – transport and data flows – bilateral working groups have been set up at the initiative of the ARS Grand-Est and in collaboration with the ARS Hauts-de-France, and my services are actively involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u51	Minister, thank you for the detailed explanations you have just provided. As you suggest, I would be interested in getting the tables you mentioned. First of all, it is to be welcomed that these annual meetings provided for in the Convention take place with the representatives you have mentioned, and that they take place without major problems, as you have pointed out. It is also gratifying to learn that improvements have been made in communications between countries, particularly with ASTRID radios. I take note of the remaining problems with data transfer and regulatory differences in France and Belgium. I will take a closer look at your answer to see how we can act and react to improve the efficiency of these services on both sides of our respective countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u52	Mr. Minister, the circulation of influenza viruses did not disappear upon the arrival of the coronavirus. Seasonal influenza affects, on average, 500,000 people each year in Belgium, representing 2 to 8% of the population. 10% of the population suffers from intense symptoms of this flu and some may succumb to it. More than 90 per cent of deaths occurred in persons over 65 years of age. Therefore, people at risk are invited to be vaccinated against seasonal influenza every year. In view of the crossover of seasonal influenza and the VOCID pandemic, a significant order of influenza vaccines was made. In addition, authorization has been given for pharmacists to vaccinate those who wish to cover a larger population. Minister, these factors lead you to ask the following questions. Meanwhile, I found the Influenza report on the Sciensano site. So maybe you can focus your answers on vaccines. What is the record of this autumn-winter? How many cases of influenza have we been able to report? Was this number greater than in the years 2021 and 2020? If so, how much do you estimate this difference? How many seasonal influenza vaccines have we administered? Has this number been greater than in previous years? If so, how much? How many vaccines have been delivered via pharmacists?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u53	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. H annoyance, this is an important issue because the flu itself creates a health problem. It is a health risk and the combination of influenza and persistent circulation of VOCID poses a dual problem. This is what a series of hospitals are currently experiencing. We must therefore be careful not only about the VOCID-19 but also about the flu. You're asking what the record is, how many cases we've been able to track. First, in the first place, the 2020 VOCID-19 pandemic has had a major impact on the circulation of influenza around the world. At the beginning of 2020, there was still a normal annual influenza epidemic from the week of January 20 to the week of March 9, 2020. The influenza epidemic was moderate in intensity and averaged eight weeks in early 2020. On the other hand, the winter of 2020-2021 was characterized by an almost total absence of influenza infections, which is exceptional compared to all previous winters, since World Health Organization surveillance began in 1952. Also for the winter 2021-2022, the number of influenza infections was, at first, exceptionally low. But more influenza infections were observed in Belgium and the rest of Europe than last winter. In a number of European countries, mainly in Northern and Eastern Europe, but also in France, an epidemic of influenza was observed during this winter. There are currently no complete national figures on the number of influenza infections because influenza is not a disease that is necessarily registered. Estimates based on surveillance by monitoring networks are available. These are, however, very approximate estimates for the last two weeks because the VOCID 19 epidemic has severely hampered the functioning of these networks. On the basis of this surveillance, however, the estimated number of consultations of general practitioners for influenza infections confirmed in 2020, 2021 and until 13 February 2022 was 213 500, 7 220 and 15 150, respectively. Sciensano's weekly bulletin on respiratory infections for the week of March 7-13 provides more recent data. General practitioners observe a rate of consultation for influenza symptoms corresponding to 520 out of 100,000 consultations, which is a moderately intense level corresponding to what has been observed in previous years. The trend is growing. Of course, we cannot rule on the peak. Similarly, there are 4.6 hospitalizations per 100,000 people per week due to influenza. This could be an underestimation if we compare with years without VOCID-19, since patients who are admitted because of VOCID-19 often have similar symptoms. It is also apparent that the positivity rate of the tests is increasing for both influenza and VOCID-19. Finally, in terms of general medicine, the table shows 1,295 consultations per 100,000 visits for other airway infections. So, overall, we have been in a trend for the past few weeks that is quite similar to those of previous years without VOCID-19. It could be assumed that the removal of health measures – including the wearing of the mask and social distancing – has also resulted in the removal of barriers against the transmission of influenza, but at this stage of evolution it is somewhat premature to draw definitive conclusions already. This being the case, this is a public health problem which, combined with VOCID-19, brings real pressure to bear on a series of hospitals, and underlines the importance of wearing the mask in public transport, pharmacists, general practitioners' offices, hospitals or nursing homes. In general, I think it is really recommended for people who feel vulnerable and have a more fragile health to wear the mask in stores, for example. I think we need a culture that the wearing of the mask must be something quite natural, not something negative. The same applies to ventilation: ventilation is as important against the circulation of the influenza virus as it is against the circulation of the coronavirus. Therefore, I believe that at present, these days, greater caution is needed again, and the actions that we have used to implement must be maintained, especially by vulnerable people. Influenza is not an innocent disease, and we know that even with the omicron variant, VOCID-19 is not an innocent disease at all! The combination of two epidemics could therefore be extremely embarrassing. I therefore believe that the situation deserves follow-up and that we must remain vigilant. As I said in previous exchanges, this underlines the importance of good preparation in the event that the situation deteriorates. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u54	Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answers. It is therefore somewhat premature to have an evaluation of the results of influenza vaccination at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u55	The AFMPS does not have the figures for vaccination, but of the availability and distribution of vaccines. Based on these figures, AFMPS estimates that 2,840,000 vaccines were sold during the 2021-2022 influenza season. The AFMPS does not yet have the figures for returned vaccines. This figure is therefore an estimate. These are in fact the same figures as those for the 2020-2021 season. In response to your last question, I will reply that the Belgian Pharmaceutical Association informed AFMPS that until February 2, including 2,125,839 vaccines had been delivered in a prescription during the influenza season 2021-2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u56	Minister, thank you. I have no particular reply to my question being purely informative.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u57	Minister, following several testimonies from citizens, I have learned that people with multiple sclerosis need to reside at relatively stable temperatures. Indeed, there would be a risk of hyper- or hypothermia for these patients. Their energy bills would therefore be very important, especially as a result of the explosion in energy prices we know. According to these accounts, these people do not always receive assistance adapted to their situation. Minister, have you been aware of a problem related to the need to ensure a stable home temperature for people with multiple sclerosis? In the positive, how are the medical and financial aspects of the energy bill taken care of for these patients? If not, do you intend to address this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u58	Madam, I am aware of the link between temperature variations and the symptoms of multiple sclerosis. Low temperatures affect nerves and muscles. This can lead to increased pain, cramps, spasms and stiffness of multiple sclerosis, which in turn can lead to problems of walking or using hands. It is not only the cold that can have a negative effect on the symptoms of multiple sclerosis, but also the heat To prevent problems caused by the cold, MS Nurse Pro, Online foundation education program for nurses working in the field of multiple sclerosis, recommends wearing several layers of clothing and drinking hot drinks, but without too much heating, because excessive heat can cause relapses. Basically, stay warm, but keep your head cold, if I can say so. It is particularly important to ensure a stable temperature, but also not to raise the heating too high. The energy bill is of course a problem that currently affects everyone. As you know, the government has already taken steps in this regard. The financial aspects of medical treatment are partially covered by the different types of MAF and the flat-rate intervention for chronically ill patients. In addition, the social tariff for electricity and natural gas is granted for beneficiaries of the increased intervention, as well as for beneficiaries of various federal and/or regional allocations (integration allowances, income replacement, etc.). In addition, the Multiple Sclerosis Patients' Association has given some advice on how patients can spend cold winter days. I assume that the doctors who treat them will also give advice on this matter and adapt their treatment, if necessary. In short, while it is important to be aware of this problem and of the recommendations on the behaviour to be taken, it is, as you say, equally important that social protection be adequate, bearing in mind that social protection must always be improved. It was therefore important to extend, at the federal level, the measures taken with regard to the social tariff which, moreover, was extended to all the beneficiaries of the increased intervention. As you know, this device will be evaluated in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u59	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. I'm glad you're aware that the symptoms of patients with multiple sclerosis can get worse when the temperature increases or decreases. This has, moreover, been objected to by a number of studies. These are known effects for the 40,000 people who suffer from this disease in Belgium and who require support measures. But today – and that is why I wanted to ask you about it – these people do not necessarily receive financial assistance adapted to their situation. It is true that your Government has adopted certain measures in favour of the most vulnerable, the most difficult, such as, of course, the extension of the social tariff. But there is also a need to be able to take measures that focus on people who are not necessarily the most disadvantaged, but who are made vulnerable by the disease they suffer. For them, the only possible solution is to call on the CPAS, which implies a cumbersome and vexatious procedure for them. I therefore encourage you to assess the measures put in place, to see if they are sufficient for these patients, in particular, in view of the constant increase in prices, and to propose, if necessary, further measures to support them as best they can.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u60	Minister, on February 1, I was asking you about the future of your bill, which contains this famous section 69 blocking the granting of INAMI quotas. You replied that the consultation on how the medical offer should be aligned with needs - and on which you did not wish to provide us with more information - was still under way, adding that an agreement could be reached quickly. Two months later, it must be noted that the blurry remains for medical students, who are legitimately worried about their professional future. This is why several student organizations, including CIUM and FEF, have submitted a petition signed by more than 6,000 students from all French-speaking universities - with the support of their Dutch-speaking counterparts - that requires the outright withdrawal of section 69. It was not until after their demonstration in front of your office that you agreed to receive them to tell them mainly that you were aware of the shortage of doctors, while continuing to consider that this article was necessary, on the ground that it "constitutes a tool of pressure and blackmail - these are your words - on the French Community to strengthen the INAMI quotas", even as they aggravate the shortage of doctors, that you yourself recognized. More recently, the Planning Commission issued an opinion asking you to raise the threshold of candidates who would receive their INAMI number in the French Community, on the triple condition of introducing a selection as soon as the next return to school, but also to direct doctors to specialties where the labour force needs to be strengthened and to remove the key used to allocate quotas between the north and the south of the country. You then reacted in Le Soir by ensuring that each medical student would be "secured, with a new filter at the entrance", in the sense that he would receive, upon graduation, an INAMI number. As a result, Minister, what is the state of progress in the inter-federal negotiations? Is a new deadline set? Secondly, are you still as optimistic about the conclusion of an agreement? If so, why keep your Article 69, since it is intended to apply only in the absence of agreement? How do you respond to students' demands? What is the status of the creation of this inter-federal planning body, which is provided for in the government agreement? Are you prepared to increase student quotas in the French Community, subject to all the conditions laid down by the Planning Commission, and not just certain? In your opinion, is the recommended increase of only 55 INAMI numbers per year sufficient? If not, could this number be raised? Finally, are you prepared to remove - as requested by the Planning Commission - the key to the allocation of these INAMI quotas between Flanders and Wallonia?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u61	Mr Minister, I will not waste too much time on this before I hear your answer, because I am asking for a state of affairs on this dossier. At least I've got one fix. We are now two months after your great ultimatum and there is little left of it. We can already conclude that. Those were big words, but little of them came into the house. It is true that you still have a law on various provisions in which there is an article containing a certain measure of accountability, namely Article 69. However, I wonder what is stopping you from having that article adopted in committee. That could have happened a long time ago. In the meantime, you're still having conversations. In the corridors they sometimes hear something, but that doesn't really reassure me. So I'd like to get an update. What does not reassure me is that the Planning Committee has once again come up with very political advice and even uses parameters which actually institutionalize that French-speaking doctors work less than Flemish doctors. That is, of course, a direct consequence of the fact that there are too many of them. I hope you do not think that we do not believe in that kind of fog, but before I do, of course, judge where you will land, because that is of course the most important thing, I would like to hear from you where you stand today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u62	Minister, that Federal Response Mechanism for compliance with that established number of doctors was announced in accordance with the government agreement. You have announced this several times. In the meantime, the deadline you set yourself for this has already expired for almost two months. When that deadline had just passed, you replied that you continued to hope for an agreement. It's time to get a pulse on that hope. In the meantime, there's still some movement. The Walloon doctor specialists have protested against your plans and on the Flemish side the Flemish association for Arts Specialists in Education and the Flemish medical students are fully associated with the plans for that response mechanism. I had put a number of quotes in my question and I would like to add one more. The President of the Flemish Medical Student Transfer rightly says that it seems to be forgotten that more students have been admitted on the Walloon side for decades than has been stipulated in that quota and that despite the fact that the serious deficit has not been resolved. This influx restriction is certainly not the cause of the shortage in these bottleneck specialisms. Just today let the Flemish government communicate that it is doing again what it is asked to do and taking its responsibility again. This time it will introduce subquotas per specialisation for the first time, in order to better match the supply of care to demand. It is not possible, of course, that there is no effective filter on the French-speaking side. What's the status? How long will you hope for an agreement? When will federal action be taken? Does the absence of that promised response mechanism mean that the lower limit of the quota is not adjusted? Can you at least give us a timing for the implementation of the coalition agreement? Will you, as the Flemish Association for Arts Specialists in Training rightly demands, ensure that these measures enter into force for the coming academic year?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u63	I will reply in general terms because there is still consultation going on. I do not want to complicate this consultation by now giving my own opinion on all possible detailed aspects of it. I repeat what I see as the main objectives. We need a global, sustainable solution with three basic principles. Firstly, the medical supply really needs to be tailored to objective needs. In doing so, attention should be paid to bottlenecks in the medical supply. In the case of bottlenecks, attention should be paid to the distribution of supply across each region and to what we can do for better distribution within the regions. The work of the Planning Committee concerns objective figures. That can be discussed. It is also possible to discuss the principles, but the Federal Planning Committee is proposing a serious and objective framework. It's important that we can get out of that. Secondly, if the Federal Planning Committee is proposing quotas for the number of young people admitted to medical specialities following initial training, then it is essential that these quotas are respected on both sides of the language border. We must also be able to see that they are respected and that they will continue to be respected. We need to have a real control over supply as a function of these objective quotas. Thirdly, this could create legal certainty for all students, if done correctly. We haven't got that far yet. Consultations are under way on these different objectives. We've gone a little over our time and I won't put a deadline on it either. However, I am hopeful that, with good will and with eyes focused on results, we will be able to find a lasting solution to a problem that has been dragging on for some 25 years and has actually been rotten rather than solved. Our mission is to solve it, from the point of view of a correct medical supply, high quality of the professions, high quality of training and high quality of care.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u64	Minister, thank you. I hear that there is still a dialogue and that is why you cannot answer all of our questions. I can hear it if it is to give these negotiations every chance to succeed. However, I wonder whether the context today is still serene enough to lead to a constructive agreement when we see that the conditions laid down in the opinion of the Planning Commission, as it has been given, are so strict and even penalising for students. These three conditions are cumulative; however, you focus, in any case, on the information you have been able to give us, only on the introduction of a selection competition which can only be established in consultation with federated entities and student organisations. It's fundamental. However, there are also two other conditions which, contrary to the competition, have the merit of not penalising students who would leave high school by coming from "bad" schools, i.e. schools which would not have a high level in mathematics, physics or biology. First condition: refer physicians to general medicine, geriatrics or psychiatry. Second condition: to remove the key used to allocate quotas between the north and the south of the country, especially in view of its small size, the free movement of caregivers and the shortage of doctors which affects the entire territory. I am dismayed to see that there are still parties that deny that this problem affects our small country as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u65	Minister, I am surprised that there are still colleagues who think that the deficit in certain sub-specialities has to do with the influx, whereas there have never been quotas in their part of this small country. You say you've gone over time. That's an understatement because we've been 25 years late. I've known you better, though, at times when you thought you could still get away with your response mechanism. In fact, the solution is quite simple and there was one under the Swedish Government. An agreement has been devised to pay off the surplus from the past, with which a response mechanism would be put in place and with which there was a clear agreement for the future. However, Mrs De Block never implemented that agreement and you will not. You're doing the same thing as Mrs. De Block. You're going to say some tough words, but when you come to the point, you're going to talk again. Moreover, I am now hearing that you are deleting your response mechanism, which at least you had already put into a legislative text. If you took your three principles of respect for quotas so seriously, you could have them adopted perfectly next week. However, it does not come to committee. I already feel in my bones what you're going to do, you're going to present your agreement on a news day. It will be at the expense of the Flemish students and at the expense of the Flemish taxpayer. You won't solve this file, you'll pardon a general. That's what you plan to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u66	Mr Minister, you are actually giving the same answer as you did two months ago. You give the objectives, which I said at the time, that I agree with them. Supply must be tailored to needs, quotas must be respected and students must be guaranteed legal certainty. We all agree that the quality of training and the quality of care must be the priorities. The fact that you haven't even stuck on a deadline has the chance that the next academic year will be applied by the day. You are only talking about resolving this, but I would have liked to hear a commitment to the response mechanism in your own coalition agreement. You could at least make it clear today that, for example, we will not make a full tabula rasa of the French translations from the past and that the key will not be released. Those are things I wanted to hear today. On the Flemish side, what is being asked has been done for 25 years. For the first time, subquotas are being set for the number of candidates for the doctor-specialist and dentist-specialist training, according to the advice of the Flemish Planning Committee. It is particularly regrettable that you continue to hope for an agreement, because in the meantime precious time has passed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u67	Question No 55025310C by Mrs Zanchetta is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u68	Mr Minister, I read in the opinion of the Flemish Planning Committee that it does not have the necessary data on the five elements relating to Article 3, 4th paragraph of the Flemish Government's decision to plan the medical offer. That makes it difficult to make evidence-based statements about the need for active doctors and dentists over the next fifteen years. You understand that Flanders prefers to look at it for itself. In addition to the opinions, annual reports and excel files published by the FPS, the Flemish planning committee needs the underlying data. A transfer of data between the federal and Flemish levels is necessary, including about the assumptions underlying the baseline scenario and, in particular, about the alternative scenarios, so that they are transparent and can be calculated in view of the situation there. What's the status? Minister, the Flemish Planning Committee recommends that a cooperation agreement be concluded for this purpose, with a view to ensuring maximum data transfer between the two levels and building up sufficient analytical capacity at Flemish level. How do you feel about that advice from the Flemish Planning Committee? Is there a will at the federal level to share the data? How do you proceed with that advice and that question and when? You will understand that I believe in that rather more than in the previous story.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u69	Mrs Van Peel, the Federal Planning Committee already pays particular attention to the description of the statistical analyses it carries out and takes into account the degree of breakdown which is useful for the Communities, permitted under the private data protection legislation. The description of the activities takes place at the level of the country, the communities, the regions, the provinces and, if possible, the municipalities, such as for general medical practice. The scenarios for the development of the labour force by community are then established for both baseline and alternative scenarios. The federal government is always at its disposal to provide support to the communities' committees within the limits of its resources and with due regard for private data protection legislation. I share your concern that good synergy and data and information exchange between the levels of competence is crucial. This seems to me to be one of the main tasks of the future interfederal body. The federal government has approved my draft paper on this matter. This draft note will then be discussed with the Länder. The creation of a data transfer cooperation agreement will certainly be one of the first tasks of that new consultative body.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u70	Minister, that would be a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u71	Minister, there are those who strike and there are those who anoint. I'm not here to give you ointments today. I'm here to give you compliments. The coalition agreement requires that consideration be given to how certain powers can be implemented tailored to the needs of the Länder. There has been a lot of discussion about this in the committee with ministers Verlinden and Clarinval. The result is that they have sent a letter to all ministers asking what they will do in this area. Only four ministers replied, including you, Minister. In the meantime, I'm doing my rounds. A number of your colleagues are now also crawling into their pen to answer politely. That's what one does when one gets a letter. My question is very simple, Minister. Can we get that letter, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u72	Mr Loones, I can tell you what I have written about asymmetric policy, because that is actually your concern. In my reply to Minister Verlinden, I make a distinction between health and social affairs. As far as health is concerned, I can highlight four aspects of the policy in which asymmetric policies are absolutely relevant. Firstly, on the basis of cooperation agreements, we can financially support the Länder in vaccination campaigns or screening programmes. We can do that asymmetrically. This has already happened in the past for cervical cancer vaccination on the Flemish side and colon cancer screening on the Walloon side. There is no reason why, if the overall policy is balanced and responsible, we should not do so anymore. I'm handing along a very small anecdote, which is missing in my letter to Minister Verlinden. Twenty years ago, I provided innovation by diversifying the protocol agreements on the roll-out of care for the elderly, when that was still a federal competence, according to the communities, because the needs and policy interests were not exactly the same. That was a great innovation back then, but we can do it fairly systematically. Pending further state reforms, we can try to tailor the needs and preferences of the communities more closely. The screening programmes and vaccination campaigns are a first facet of this. Secondly, both in the context of our pilot projects chronic care which is about taking proper account of the chronicity of diseases and the fact that good, often multidisciplinary care paths are to be organized as well as in the context of the agreement on psychological care in the first line we have had a lot of consultation with the Länder. By the way, a protocol, or a symmetrical framework, has been created around the psychological aid in the first line. It is perfectly possible, even to recommend, that the Länder link different specific initiatives to those projects in Chronicare from their own powers and from their own preferences. Also in another area, which you do know from the negotiations on state reform, asymmetry can continue to be addressed, in particular in the cooperation agreements on the inclusion of brake charges within the framework of powers transferred to the Länder, in the federal system maximum invoicing and its financing. It is perfectly conceivable that, to the extent that the Länder have their own powers in areas of health care, they will develop different approaches to what personal shares are that people have to pay and that they will thus introduce in a different way what they need to insert into the maximum invoice system, which aims to limit the sum of personal shares. The cooperation that is now very operational around the maximum invoice, which is a federal system, but with a piece of input of shares paid in the context of health care in areas that are state jurisdiction, can be perfectly asymmetrically completed. In the corona pandemic, on the one hand, we have tried to coordinate much, explicitly in the framework of the federal phase, but even independently of the federal phase, we need to coordinate and therefore streamline and do the same. That allows for different accents to be laid. That's what happened, and there's nothing wrong with that. In the management of such an epidemic one must coordinate, but that does not necessarily correspond to a single sausage. As far as social affairs is concerned, I would like to draw your attention to a recent example. Recently, we have had nothing secret about this, because it was discussed and approved here in committee - the distinction in federal legislation between sheltered and social workshops in the field of RSZ contributions and reduction, so that the sheltered workshops and tailor-made companies referred to in the Flemish Decree of 12 July 2013 are all covered by the same rules. We have also made a specific agreement on what is happening in Flanders to ensure that our decision does indeed allow greater efforts in these sectors. I think that is a good deal of work and a useful piece of legislation. No one has called hard for that, but that is a form of asymmetry. Another example I would like to mention in my consultation with Mrs Verlinden, which is also an example of how the epidemic can be tackled, on the one hand seeking uniformity and convergence, but on the other hand allowing for so little difference, is the return-to-work policy of long-term sick people. On the one hand, I think we need convergence there. Of course, I expect more ambition from the various regions and also a converging ambition upwards. Flanders has done more in the past than Brussels and Wallonia with regard to the reintegration of long-term ill, but this also has to do with the fact that there is more suction in the Flemish labour market. On the one hand, there is the story of convergence and thus uniformity in the approach. That also makes sense since we are in a federal social system. On the other hand, I am making separate protocols with Flanders and I signed one last week with Mrs Crevits, Brussels and Wallonia. These are separate protocols, because reality is not the same everywhere. That's a tailor-made approach. I also think this is an interesting example of how, in the whole of the powers, which are what they are and not always perfectly organized, one can ensure that preferences and needs are aligned in each region. That is what I have said to Mrs Verlinden when it comes to asymmetry in my policy. There are no secrets from everyone else.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for that very correct answer. First of all, I appreciate the fact that you correctly fill in the term asymmetry. When I ask other ministers, they often answer that if there is a question from a state minister and those who agree, they are asymmetrically engaged. Of course, that is not the case. By the way, if one takes a measure which is the same for the whole territory, one can place Länder with something that they did not ask for, but which the other had asked for. There is another dynamic in your mind, which can only improve the accuracy of the debate. Secondly, I would like to call for a very active approach. I have seen that the protocol on the long-term sick has indeed been signed. You have given some very concrete examples that can be operationalised this legislature and hopefully by 2024, so that we can see the real asymmetry after 2024. We have read in the coalition agreement the passage that legislative proposals on the federalisation of health care will be integrated. There may also be a small debate on this wording, but that will undoubtedly be for the next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u74	Mr President, Mr Minister, the €43 million package to grant a flat-rate allowance of €2,500 to specialist nurses would not apply to nurses specialising in peri-operative care. The reason given is the lack of standards in the operating rooms despite the award of the professional qualification in 2014. In addition, post-operative nurses were particularly solicited during the various phases of the covid-19 epidemic. Most peri-operative nurses assisted their colleagues by visiting intensive care units, emergency services, or hospital services to care for patients. Minister, can you tell us if a solution is in the process of being found to also grant the lump sum allowance to nurses specializing in peri-operative care? Are you considering taking the necessary steps to set the framework standards in the operating rooms? Is there any contact with the ministers of the federal health agencies in order to consider the issue of accreditation standards?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u75	Mrs Taquin, I am fully aware of the problem you are sketching. I am currently in the process of implementing the decision to grant additional specialization to certain nurses by drafting a royal decree which will determine the beneficiaries of this supplement, after consultation with the sector. The possibility of granting a specialisation supplement to registered nurses for a particular professional qualification or for a particular professional qualification who work in a hospital in an approved service, approved function or approved care programme shall be examined.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u76	Minister, thank you for the answer and I am relieved that you are keeping the course. You have confirmed to us that there should not be any losers in this reform, which was intended to enhance the value of all the healthcare workers who need it. We look forward to this, but I understand that the work takes time if it is to be done properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u77	Question No 55025408C by Mr Patrick Prévot is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u78	Minister, in the UK, 49 percent of new HIV diagnoses were observed in heterosexuals and about as many in men as in women. If one compares this with 45% for men who have sex with men and bisexuals, this is a striking percentage. The figures do not mean that there is an increase in the number of HIV infections in heterosexuals, but they are striking because since 2014 there has been a huge decrease in the number of infections..................................................................................................................................................................................... This is the first time in ten years that diagnoses in the hetero-community are higher than in the holibi community. One explanation for this may be that men who have sex with men are still among the key groups for the transmission of HIV in Europe, and that sensitisation is much better integrated into this group and less focused on the sensitisation of other population groups. According to Professor Vandekerckhove of the UZ Gent, the new diagnoses in our country would be similar between men who have sex with men on the one hand and heterosexual men and women on the other. It is therefore very important to continue to focus on awareness among the entire population. In Sub-Saharan Africa. 6 out of 7 new HIV infections in adolescents between 15 and 19 years of age occur in girls. Transgender women and sex workers are 34 and 26 times more at risk of HIV infection, respectively. A number of pilot projects are now under way in the UK. For example, there is a new system in which people who were registered in the emergency department were tested for HIV. This has led to more infected people being detected in that hospital, specifically responsible for infections with sexually transmitted diseases. Minister, do you know about these figures in the UK? How do you interpret these figures? What are the latest figures in our country? Do we also see a shift in the number of infections here? What was the impact of the corona crisis on the number of people with HIV infection? Do you think that we should also take action in this area in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u79	Mr President, it is the last question, but it is an absolutely relevant question. Firstly, on the figures for other countries, I can tell you that the United Kingdom, to which you referred, like other countries, publishes an annual epidemiological HIV report. While each country is responsible for interpreting its own trends, contacts between those responsible for HIV surveillance in the European countries and the United Kingdom are mainly organised through ECDC, where national observations can be discussed among experts. So I would answer yes to your first question. Fortunately, we have some kind of networking that allows us to discuss that with each other. However, we either accept their interpretation or we listen to their interpretation. What are the figures in our country? Do we also see such shifts? In 2020, 727 new HIV diagnoses were identified in Belgium. That corresponds to two new diagnoses a day. So that's a permanent issue. In the diagnoses for which the suspected transmission mode of HIV infection was known, the number of homosexual transfers was 47 %, i.e. 244 cases. The number of heterosexual transfers was 49 %, or 252 cases. So that's a fifty-fifty ratio among the people we know about. Following the decreasing trend in the number of HIV diagnoses between 2012 and 2018, an epidemiological plateau was reached in 2019. Between 2019 and 2020, the number of new HIV diagnoses decreased by 21%. However, this sharp decrease was clearly related to the covid pandemic and measures to reduce the circulation of the covid virus. Both affected HIV testing activities, sexual behaviour and migration dynamics. We must therefore be somewhat vigilant in interpreting them for long-term extrapolations. Since the onset of the HIV epidemic in Belgium, two key populations have been particularly affected, in particular men who have sex with men of Belgian nationality and heterosexual men and women from Sub-Saharan Africa. As in the United Kingdom, we have seen a steady decline in the number of diagnoses in men having sex with men since 2013, as well as a decrease in the number of diagnoses in people from Sub-Saharan Africa. Given the decreasing trend of diagnosis in those two key populations, the proportion of other populations or populations with other profiles has increased relatively in recent years and the epidemic in Belgium is now more diversified. In 2020, for example, 40% of the new HIV diagnoses were observed among Belgian men who have sex with men and heterosexuals from Sub-Saharan Africa. Compared to other European countries, we have a relatively high and constant HIV test rate. A total of 629,063 HIV tests were carried out in 2020. That's 56 tests per 1,000 inhabitants. Between 2019 and 2020, the number of tests carried out decreased by 18%. That is, of course, the result of covid again. This is particularly clear from March to May and from October to December 2020: 58% less in April and 25% less in November compared to the same period in previous years. You will find details about the HIV epidemic in our country in the annual HIV report of Sciensano, published in November 2021. Should we take action on this issue? We have a combined offer of prevention. The HIV prevention toolbox has been extended to include biomedical tools, such as post-exposition prophylaxis for people potentially exposed to HIV, the immediate treatment of people living with HIV after diagnosis to avoid sexual transmission, and recently also the pre-exposition prophylaxis for people at increased risk of HIV infection. Belgium also has a diverse and extensive test range. One can be tested for HIV in first-line care, in second-line care in specialized outpatient clinics and in hospitals. In addition, RIZIV finances three HIV reference centres to carry out low-threshold tests: in Antwerp, the ITM Help Centre, in Brussels, the ELISA Centre in the UMC Sint-Pieter and in Liège, the Centre de Référence Sida in the CHU Liège and Sida Sol asbl. People from specific groups can be tested in these centres free of charge and anonymously. To reach target groups at higher risk of HIV, testing programmes outside existing health centres are also launched. I refer to what we do with regard to sex workers. After diagnosis, a patient should be treated for HIV as soon as possible. This allows the patient to receive initial medical guidance and to initiate antiretroviral therapy. Antiretroviral therapy also serves to prevent further transmission. Efficient treatment results in the virus becoming undetectable and therefore the virus cannot be transmitted further by sexual means. In Belgium, more than 80% of patients in treatment for HIV are monitored in an HIV reference centre. In 2020, 98% of HIV patients received antiretroviral treatment in medical follow-up at an HIV reference centre. It is necessary that the prevention and testing strategy as well as care are inclusive and accessible to all affected populations, especially in times of pandemics, given the precarious situation in which some people find themselves. In the context of optimisation of the combined prevention offer, the proposal for a continued national HIV 2020-2026 plan constitutes a highly appropriate policy framework for cooperation and communication between health authorities and the actors of the HIV field. This plan is being finalised. The data to which you referred, and to which I have continued to respond, naturally play a part in this. I expect to be able to propose this before the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u80	Mr President, Minister, there must be a constant and high number of tests in Belgium, as well as a lot of prevention and a very good follow-up. We are doing very well in Belgium. However, I see that the figures are similar to those in the United Kingdom. You rightly called it a permanent issue. In Target 3.3 van de SDG’s wordt gesteld: "includes the promise made by member states to achieve the end of aids by 2030." Well, then I'm worried sick. We are in 2022 and although we are doing well, despite the good prevention, despite the good treatments we are not getting any further. We must continue to pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u81	Mrs Depoorter, there are a lot of different things in the question about health objectives and population management. I'll gather my answers. The government agreement states that by 2030 we are aiming to reduce the health gap between people with the highest and those with the lowest expected healthy years of life by at least 25%, reduce the number of avoidable deaths by 15% and re-establish a place in the group of 10 European countries where the number of expected healthy years of life is highest. This is ambitious, but we will also develop health objectives and a monitoring system with possible adjustments in consultation with the Länder and healthcare actors. My administration, the FPS Public Health, is currently working out the methodology and governance based on the analysis of the RIZIV in the context of the healthcare objectives and the final report of the World Health Organisation Public Review that we are expecting one of these days. The principles of population management have been known for a long time and are also increasingly applied in our country, with some different words. I refer, for example, to registers and healthcare data management, which is still under way. It is important to put good principles into practice and provide instruments, in which data are crucial, in order to be able to implement this type of policy. You then paid attention to the cardiovascular aspect in particular and the medical aspect of cardiovascular management. Over the last few weeks, on the advice of the Committee on Medicinal Products and the working group on contracts, I have taken a number of positive decisions on the inclusion of innovative second-line LDL-lowering medicines in the compulsory health insurance package. I am pleased that those decisions could be made. For example, both bempedoic acid, i.e. Nilemdo and Nustendi, Inclisiran, i.e. Leqvio, and Alirocumab, with Praluent, were recently positively detected for primary or secondary prevention of artherosclerotic cardiovascular diseases. Also, Evalocumab, Repatha, is currently in CTG procedure for this indication. Due to its confidential nature, I can't give you any further information. Of course, and through the conditions of reimbursement of these medicinal products, the Commission has and is working to ensure that the target groups are correctly defined, inter alia on the basis of serology, so that the right patients, i.e. those with the highest cardiovascular risk, in whom the medication is actually cost-effective, would be given access to these often expensive medicines. As far as pharmaceutical policy is concerned, we have recently taken steps forward through concrete decisions. The way in which this is done responds to the concerns expressed in your question, to the philosophy underlying your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic731x.u82	Minister, it is a good thing that, in the second line, innovative medicines will be reimbursed. The ongoing investigation into Repatha will therefore have its outcome. However, it is not only about the reimbursement or medical approach of the problem, population management is also important. I didn't hear about that. Where do we want to go? How many patients do we want to get out of that scoop of patients who would be eligible to use those innovative medicines? What diseases will we prevent? I referred in my question to a large-scale action in the United Kingdom to downsize those cardiovascular accidents. We must make every effort to this end. If necessary, we can work with pilot projects. You spoke of health data. If we want to use it in a targeted way, we need to find the scoop of risk patients who can really be advanced with those innovative means, which can lead to a longer and healthier life and to fewer other interventions. So we need more than just a reimbursement plan. There really needs to be a broad vision of how to tackle cardiovascular accidents.
