ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u1	Minister, I am very pleased to see you on this occasion. You are one of the few who answered my questions on this subject and acted. I therefore count on you to continue the work started in 2020. In this respect, I do not always understand where some of your colleagues want to lead me. I sometimes feel that they play a ping-pong game in order to avoid taking on their responsibilities. In May 2021, nine Nazi collaborators - according to our information - continued to receive a pension paid in Belgium by the German State after their engagement in the Wehrmacht, and for one of them in an SS division. The money is paid as compensation for personal injury incurred for taking up arms for Hitler. A resolution had been adopted by this Parliament calling for clarity on the issue. One of the demands of the resolution is that data concerning Belgian collaborators and collaborators of foreign nationality residing in Belgium during the Second World War, convicted in Belgium for acts of collaboration with the Nazi occupier, be communicated to the German federal government. I therefore asked your colleagues, in particular the Minister of the Interior, about the follow-up she gave to a letter from the College of Attorneys General addressed to you. She informed me that your services would have received a list of 181 names and that you would have to answer me. "In order to determine the fate of this 181-name list, I advise you to address my colleague, the Minister of Justice," she said. Minister, could you please tell me if you intend to move forward by sending this list to the German authorities? What solution could be put in place so as not to contravene the European Data Protection Regulation which seems to block this exchange? Have you had any exchanges on this subject with Secretary of State Michel to consider a solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u2	Dear colleague, thank you for your question, which echoes a problem that I know well. As you know, the resolution adopted by the Chamber provides in its second point that the authorities of North Rhine-Westphalia should be sent data concerning Belgian collaborators and collaborators of foreign nationality residing in Belgium during the Second World War, convicted in Belgium for acts of collaboration with the Nazi occupier. In so far as these are criminal convictions that fall under the jurisdiction of the Department of Justice, I have committed myself to putting in place the means to provide the list provided for in point 2 of the resolution. For several years, both the Belgian authorities' parliamentary and diplomatic approaches have always faced Germany's refusal to transmit personal data on the persons concerned by the disputed pensions. However, with the support of our Foreign Affairs colleagues, we have been able to obtain the following information. As of 19 January 2021, there were still nine beneficiaries of a war pension in Belgium: four war invalids, including three Germans who settled in Belgium after the war; four widows, three of whom were Belgian nationals, of men who were forced to work in Germany during the Second World War. According to the German authorities, there is no indication that these nine persons were convicted for acts of collaboration. Research carried out by my department has shown that in Belgium there are almost 80,000 criminal convictions by the Belgian court, which concern collaborators during the Second World War. We were able to get a narrow list of 181 names. Nevertheless, the College of Public Prosecutors has told us that the intervention of the Public Prosecutor's Office must be limited to the tasks which are his own, as envisaged in article 2 of the Act of 19 July 1991 on the Register of Population. While it is the responsibility of the Public Prosecutor's Office to guarantee public order and the peace of families, it is only through article 138 of the Judicial Code that it is entrusted, in criminal matters, with the exercise of public prosecution. In the present case, in the absence of a criminal, fiscal and social offence in the light of the agreements concluded with Germany, it is not within the remit of the Public Prosecutor's Office to carry out the research requested of it, under penalty for its members to be guilty themselves of the offence referred to in Article 2 of the Law of 19 July 1991 and sanctioned by Article 13 of the Law of 8 August 1983 establishing a national register of natural persons. As you can see, we are currently in a frustrating impasse, as we have a list of 181 names that we cannot provide for the legal reasons I have just expressed. The only possibility I see right now is an adaptation of the law. To this end, I will hold a meeting with the relevant colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u3	Minister, you are recontextualizing the whole issue and you are doing well. As I said in the preamble, you are one of the few to have activated on this file in an impeccable way - I have to say so. You do not disappoint me on this aspect since I understand the legal reasons that prevent you from transmitting the list of 181 names. Therefore - and you have opened the door - a legislative amendment would have to be made. You're going to work with your colleagues on this. Of course, it will probably be too late when this law is passed, as time passes and these people, who have betrayed their country and who, for some, have blood from innocent victims on their hands, have benefited from rents paid by the German State in an unfair manner. However, it remains true that, in terms of symbolism, particularly in relation to what we know at European level, the rise of fascism, the extreme right and the war in Ukraine, I believe that doing legislative work for the future and for the future does not at all detract from the interest of your approach. I therefore thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u4	Madam President, Minister, two weeks ago, Knack mentioned in an article the problem of self-service culture in court bailiffs. According to Knack, some of them make millions thanks to illegal wages. There was an amount of more than EUR 16 million. The practice in which bailiffs charge unlawful charges to the debtor has been known for a long time: there is a judgment in cassation on 2008. The professional organisation of the bailiffs, the National Chamber, has also been informed and has already asked its members several times to stop the practice. The Flemish tax administration also expressed its displeasure and the College of Attorneys-General also tapped several bailiffs. Unfortunately, it seems that all these compelling words do not change the practice. Too many bailiffs remain, however, public and ministerial officials who are not so close to the rules. I think it's an understatement to say that this is a delicate file. Nevertheless, I have received positive signals from you and your cabinet. You yourself pointed out that this type of abuse is totally unacceptable and called for a reform of the sector. In fact, your cabinet is in the middle of a thorough reform of tariffs and you specifically asked the National Chamber to proactively detect and tackle abuse. Because I, like you, Minister, cannot approve this kind of abuse, no matter how often or how little it occurs, and am in favour of transparent and affordable justice, I have the following questions for you. Where do you stand with the reform of tariffs? When do you expect to be able to bring a bill to Parliament? Is the reform also envisaged a way to proactively detect and tackle the abuse? How do you see that in concrete terms? How much do you estimate the extent of this abuse? Are there figures or an estimate of how many bailiffs would be guilty of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u5	Thank you for your questions, Mrs Gabriels. The discussion between my cabinet, the National Chamber of Court Bailiffs and the Knowledge Centre on tariff reform is under way. This concerns the Royal Decree of 1976 on the settlement of the bailiff's fees. In addition, there will be a substantial modernisation of the statute of bailiffs and the intention is to discuss the preliminary draft law at government level after the summer. The current tariff has a complex nomenclature. Each act is subject to a tariff, which adds costs which are often not in conformity with reality and whose name itself does not always allow identification of the content. The statement currently contains incomprehensible abbreviations for non-districts. In addition to the preparation of documents, the current rate provides for costs related to the judicial recovery of debts. These costs consist of a recovery charge, calculated on the whole claim, and a discharge charge applicable to each split payment by the debtor in addition to the recovery right. If someone pays off their debt in disks, they must pay a discharge right each time. All tariffs should therefore be reviewed. The main principles of these reforms are simplicity, transparency and effective cost reduction. Pending this general reform, I explicitly drew the attention of the National Chamber to their legal obligations and asked to be regularly informed about them. That is, of course, not the only measure I will take. Automated checks via the database for the documents of bailiffs should also simplify the audit task. I asked the National Chamber of Court Bailiffs if they could make an assessment, but she told me not to have any overall figures. I want to be clear about alleged abuse. In an illegal way, passing amounts on to people who already have debts should not be allowed. I am also convinced that the majority of bailiffs feel that way. I want the professional body of bailiffs to assume its responsibilities and take action, if necessary disciplinary action. I also intend to reform the disciplinary law of bailiffs, so that there too it can be judged with sufficient objectivity about the conduct of bailiffs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u6	Thank you for your answer, the update and your commitment in this file. It is an important dossier. Over the last few days, the media have also highlighted this problem and its complexity for citizens. The Care for Mama programme also highlights the other side of the coin. Doorkeepers must indeed provide solutions and seek to mediate wherever possible. I think, like you, that most people are committed to this. That is why abuse must be punished and curbed anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u7	Minister, in your policy statement this year, you told us that, in the wake of the digitization of prisons, you have launched public procurement for various digital applications, including the successor of the SIDIS-SUITE programme, the daily records management programme, the EPICURE programme, on health care in prisons, and the creation of a new application to encourage the training of prisoners. I believe it is essential that the development and implementation of these applications be carried out in close cooperation with the field, in order to best meet its expectations. So, Minister, at what stage is this digitization going on? What is the timetable for the next steps? It is often criticized that a multiplication of applications and platforms leads to an administrative burden and a lack of centralisation of data. What about here? Is there an application for centralized access to information? Finally, you have indicated your willingness to ensure that the needs of the field are always adequately addressed. I'm glad. How does this translate very concretely into this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u8	Mr Goffin, as far as the successor of the SIDIS-SUITE programme is concerned, the dossier is in its very last phase of allocation. The selected company will soon be informed of the award of the contract. Thereafter, work on the development of the new application and the development of its implementation – which will take 18 months – can begin. Delivery is scheduled for the end of 2023. As for the inmate service platform, a draft allocation report was submitted for advice to the Finance Inspectorate. It can then be allocated. A precise timetable will then be established with the successful tenderer. As regards the "electronic patients" case, the two previous invitations to tender proved unsuccessful. A third is being prepared under a non-competitive procedure. The specifications are being drafted and will be submitted to the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate as soon as possible, so that we can publish them. Next, each of the three digitization projects within prisons targets a target group. Their respective scope is completely separate. The databases that will replace SIDIS-SUITE and EPICURE centralize information in which both central and correctional staff can enter data, consult and read reports – obviously within the limits of their rights according to their mission. One of the fundamental requirements of all the new systems to be developed is interoperability in order to allow the maximum transfer of data to facilitate the operation of the services. Finally, field staff were involved in the drafting of the criteria in the various specifications. In addition, working groups are being established to define business processes and needs. Experts from central services and prisons will participate, each in their field of expertise. Staff will also be trained before applications become effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u9	Minister, thank you for your concrete answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u10	Minister, prisons and inmates appear to be seeking the release of prisoners. However, it appears that the capacity of prison work is not fully exploited, in particular due to a lack of staff available to oversee this work. Minister, what is your position on the beneficial nature of prison work? How, very concretely, are the enterprises whose work is carried out partly in prisons? I was told that detainees were paid an average of just over one euro per hour for their work. How is the employer's distribution of remuneration compared to the final amount awarded to the inmate? Does a percentage go to the prison? Do you intend to encourage and extend prison work when the majority of experts seem to indicate that this has a beneficial effect on reintegration and, consequently, on recidivism? Is an increase in the budget for prison work and the equipment and personnel infrastructure needed for prison and prison work on the agenda? Similarly, do you not consider it necessary to strengthen the opportunities for training in prison and to devote resources to it with the Regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u11	"Mr. Minister, in 2015, the Human Rights League published the results of a poll that revealed that even if it played a major social and occupational role, prison work was perceived by inmates as sometimes a exploitation, sometimes as a favor to be obtained.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u12	When do you plan to conduct an initial evaluation of your Cellmade project? Do you consider it appropriate to repeat the survey of working inmates?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u13	Mevrouw de voorzitster, ladies and gentlemen, on Mr Goffin's first question, I am quite convinced that training and work in prison are particularly important in order to promote successful social reintegration for prisoners. These factors contribute to the meaning of detention and promote the reduction of recidivism. I would add that the work allows the inmates to start the compensation of the victims and helps them to buy some goods through the prison canteen. For all reasons, I support the development of Cellmade and therefore work in prison. With regard to the second question by Mr. Goffin and Ms. Rohonyi, the activities of the prison labour authority (under the name Cellmade) are described in the Royal Decree of 13 September 2004. At the level of work, Cellmade is structured around four pillars: domestic work, qualifying vocational training, work in production workshops and workshops for private entrepreneurs. In the case of these private companies, a contract is drawn up with the company which wishes to have work carried out within the prison framework. The Cellmade manager then calculates the price corresponding to the type of work requested. Cellmade works with a standard contract, but specific contracts are always possible if this is necessary to diversify the type of work proposed. For example, when specific machines are to be brought in and installed. You see, ladies and gentlemen, that Article 84 of the law of principle is therefore properly applied. In view of the diversity of activities proposed, however, it is not possible to fully harmonise the procedures for granting work. Thus, the conditions of selection are different between the cheesemaking workshops of Saint-Hubert, the printing works of the Hoogstraten prison or the carpentry workshops of the central prison of Leuven. In concrete terms, in each prison, prisoners wishing to work report this to management. They are then placed on a waiting list. Secondly, as soon as a place is freed up within one of the pillars of work present in prisons, prisoners in useful order are called upon to work within the available posts. If the inmate is suitable for the position, he or she will continue to work there. It is the Director who makes this assessment objectively and on an individual basis. Some positions are very stable, such as those related to domestic work. For other works, such as those related to private contractors, the number of positions available may vary greatly depending on the work in progress. Let me turn to Mr Goffin's third and fifth questions, and Mrs Rohonyi's fourth question. I will reply first to Mr Goffin. When you mention the amount of one euro per hour, instead reference is made to gratuities for domestic work, e.g. distributing meals. There, indeed, the average amount granted was one euro per hour. I was quick to increase the overall budget allocated from €3,737,000 in 2020 to €4,116,000 in 2021. This increased the average amount of gratuity by 10%, i.e. 1.10 euro per hour. It must be made clear, dear colleague, that I am referring here to average amounts, because these gratuities are different in each establishment according to what the local management wants to prefer as domestic work. In concrete terms, you will understand that some hard work is better paid than others. As far as workshop work is concerned, Cellmade's basic rate is now 6 euros per hour. To return to the four pillars, Cellmade's production workshops employ an average of 200 inmates who receive an hourly bonus and an average of 1.80 per hour. Cellmade's business workshops occupy about 1500 inmates. They are paid by a bonus of 2.5 euros per hour. Inmates undergoing vocational training – 700 prisoners are referred to – receive a reward of 0.70 euro per hour. Inmates assigned to domestic chores - a total of 2,300 prisoners - receive an average of 1.10 euro per hour. Finally, it should be noted that the prison does not receive a specific percentage of the contract amounts with contractors. Cellmade's income is redistributed in the form of amounts allocated to training and welfare projects aimed at improving the conditions of detainees. It will, for example, finance sports activities such as football, table tennis, activities such as art therapy, hortitherapy, yoga classes, or finance the installation of vegetable gardens or bee hives. As for your fourth question, Mr Goffin, it is obvious that I am a fervent promoter of extending work opportunities. As I have pointed out, this has a beneficial influence both on the conditions of detention and on reintegration. As far as your sixth question is concerned, as I have just pointed out, both work and training are important tools. Since this year, the Cellmade has managed the whole question of financial intervention in training. Previously, only qualifying vocational training was available. This was heard in 2022 (general training). We have therefore just waited for the first evaluations of this change before taking further initiatives. But rest assured that I will pay particular attention to the issue and the follow-up to it. Mrs Rohonyi, in answer to your first question, by summarising the average of the inmates occupied within the four pillars, you reach a total of 4,700 inmates. This, compared to the number of inmates, represents about 40 per cent. Pre-trial detainees also have access to work. With regard to your third question, I can indeed confirm that there are waiting lists which, at the level of each institution, fluctuate constantly according to the job offers. With regard to your fifth question, even if, strictly speaking, detainees do not work under a contract of employment, the provisions of the Law on the organisation of working time are still applicable to them. Thus, their working hours are also limited in time to the standards of the 2000 Act. There is no compensation for detainees when they are not working, except in the event of a strike. If the detainees cannot work because of a strike, they receive a strike allowance of 0.75 euro per hour which they could not afford, with a maximum of 7 hours per day. Prisoners are entitled to annual leave and weekly rest, but not paid leave. Detainees are protected under the Welfare Act. Safety in the prison's workplace is guaranteed by the officials. No work begins without the advice of the Internal Service for Prevention and Protection at Work. The same service carries out visits to prisons. These visits cover all workplaces, including those of detainees. An inmate is not covered by health insurance. Each inmate receives free health care. In the event of an accident at work, compensation is entirely possible. They're taken over by Cellmade. The occupational doctor is responsible only for the health of the staff, not the inmates. The prison medical service is responsible for the health of prisoners. With regard to your sixth question, in view of the current social security legislation, this remains relevant. With regard to your seventh question, prison work has been in place for many years and it is difficult to see it as a project and even more difficult to talk about an initial evaluation. I am a strong advocate for the need to offer jobs to inmates and I intend to improve Cellmade's service.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u14	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answers. There is still a lot of work to be done and I am pleased to note your strong interest in this way of functioning in prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u15	Minister, thank you for your well-substantiated answers. We are all convinced that this work in prison contributes to giving meaning to the penalty and therefore contributes to the reduction of recidivism, but on the fundamental condition that this work be properly supervised, valued and rewarded. It is for this reason that my party, through our former Minister of Employment in Brussels, contributed in 2019 to the establishment of a comprehensive action plan for the employment, training and validation of the skills of prisoners and former prisoners. You said on social media that inmates would learn fair work. The problem is that today this framework does not exist or does not exist sufficiently. The supply of training and jobs is either not accessible or insufficient because it depends on the state of the prison, overcrowding, premises, the availability of training staff. Thus, one finding is quite disturbing, namely that only 40 per cent of prisoners would work in prison. It would have been interesting to know how many detainees remained on waiting lists throughout their detention. You say that the lists are fluctuating, but probably not enough to allow all the prisoners seeking work at some point. To this is added the question of the lack of a framework for this work, which contributes to abuses in terms of hours, hygiene, safety and remuneration. I find that the amounts of remuneration you mentioned are quite derisory. Finally, you speak of a certain diversity in training. This is true if we look at all the prisons but within the same prison, we see that this diversity does not exist. This is probably also why there are not enough inmates who are able to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u16	Minister, on my last visit to Lantin prison, management reported that only one psychologist was available to the entire prison and all detainees twice a week for three hours. Needless to say, six hours a week to devote to more than 720 inmates is derisory. Part of the psychologist's work is devoted not only to assessing the psychological profile of new prisoners entering, particularly in the context of pre-trial detention, but also, by force of events, to psychological assessments requested by the sentencing court. The time remaining reduced to almost nothing is then dedicated to the accompaniment of the detainees in the context of their detention. Thus, when an inmate requests an appointment with the psychologist, he or she usually gets an interview at a time of several months. Similarly, prisons would face a significant shortage of general practitioners, leading them regularly to have to turn to the hospital emergency service, with transfers that mobilize significant human and financial resources. Mr. Minister, this is an issue of concern and is clearly a barrier to the proper reintegration of prisoners. In the fight against recidivism and in your work for a more humane justice and detention, it is important and urgent to provide concrete answers to this problem. Minister, how do you specifically intend to provide answers to this problem? What means are you going to implement in the short, medium and long term to bring solutions to the field?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u17	Mr Goffin, I think I have already answered this question on the occasion of my answer to a question from Mrs Matz.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u18	In that case, Mrs Matz took up my question. No doubt this one is interesting!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u19	Absolutely! Madam President, for the sake of convenience, can I refer to that answer and bring it in here?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u20	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u21	Mr Goffin, I will give you the text of my reply. If, therefore, it can be included in the report as the answer. Do you understand, Madam President? Flexibility is the key word for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u22	In this way, speaking time is respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u23	I refer to my question, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u24	Mrs Bury, the fight against sexual violence is a priority for the government. The new sexual criminal law groups all offences of sexual abuse of minors in one section, namely Section 2, sexual exploitation of minors. This section covers offences relating to fornication against minors and child prostitution. This creates a clear grouping, while this matter used to be incoherent in the penal code. The new sexual criminal law is only a first step. We need to focus on a relatively new phenomenon that is emerging worldwide in both minors and adults, being digital sexual abuse. Specifically with regard to minors, we already consult Child Focus. We provide a budget of 186,000 euros for the project Arachnid in the fight against images of sexual abuse. Last year Child Focus received 1,414 reports of images of sexual abuse of minors through the hotline. This spring, the number of reports tripled. However, the major problem is in the encrypted conversations, where the abuse remains hidden if it is not reported. This concerns not only images of sexual abuse of minors, but also the lure of children. Fortunately, in this particular case, the mother went to the police. We are working on a better collaboration between Child Focus and social media companies, such as Meta and Google. Child Focus is a trusted flagger. For example, it is possible to act quickly in the case of sexual abuse of minors online. A first consultation between Meta and Child Focus took place. I, too, was present. Finally, it is important that both the police and the police acquire sufficient knowledge about dealing with the various social media companies, so that they can cooperate quickly and effectively in the fight against digital sexual abuse. I will also shortly be planning consultations with the Institute of Judicial Training to develop a course for magistrates on sexual cyber violence, so that they can deal with this relatively new phenomenon quickly and efficiently. It would be nice if it could offer a specialized training, which ensures that the knowledge about sexual crimes with an online component focusing on child abuse is up-to-date. Cyberlocking is, after all, a disturbing phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u25	Minister, Arachnid is about child pornography. We really saw a four-year-old kid from Kortrijk being lured through the mom. You must have heard the story, it happened near you. It's strange, though, that the parole board asks for the arrest, and then the investigating judge says that the man may be released. I also know that we should not interfere in such matters, but that is precisely why the judicial training on knowledge of sexual crimes you are proposing is so important. It is also important that the public prosecutors, the police and the magistrates are on the same wavelength and know that it can pose a danger, even in the future. In the context of sexual criminal law, we have already discussed it. Now it happened to an investigating judge, but when a case like that comes before a judge, there's no mandatory advice. It could also have helped to think about this when such profiles are presented. It is indeed difficult for a investigating judge to assess whether such a man does not just go on the next night with another mother, another child. I'd like you to take that into consideration. Isn't it better to engage in a fight by having us advise, when it comes to sexual offenders, to make society safer?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u26	Minister, a few weeks ago, in this committee, I advocated decoy profiles, which could, among other things, deal with exploitation via Instagram. After all, a reportage in Het Laatste Nieuws had once again shown how teenage girls on Instagram increasingly fall prey to so-called shoutout pages, which in exchange for little cover-up photos promote their profile, which can then lead to exploitation. You turned out to be fond of the idea of decoy profiles on social media, aimed at tackling traffickers, and you mentioned it as an example of a possible good proactive approach. You also suggested that you contact Meta and Child Focus immediately for consultation. After all, you were right to think that it would be a good idea for safety teams to delete very unwanted images after a report, but that proactive action is even better. In this context, I would also like to highlight the preventive effect of decoy profiles. In the meantime, have you consulted with Meta? What were the conclusions? What will Meta do in addition? You said last time that you would only want to take the initiative to use decoy profiles after consultation with Meta. After your consultation, did you learn about the need for decoy profiles? Will you take any further initiatives to put this into practice? For example, by developing standard modules with minimum conditions, one would be inclined to take the next step in the field effectively. In your view, should the Code of Economic Law not be amended so that social media and service providers, as referred to in that Code, also have a general obligation to actively seek out facts or circumstances that indicate illegal activities? Sexual exploitation often starts with pressure from non-consensual images. Hosting services are currently not liable for the information stored at the request of the recipient of that service, provided that, first, the service provider does not have actual knowledge of the illegal activity or information and, second, the service provider, once he has knowledge of that information, also acts immediately to remove them or to prevent access to them. I quote part of an earlier answer from you to a question from me. Should the Economic Law Code not impose such an obligation, whereby this information can also be reported and followed transparently in a clear procedure with those hosting services, so that liability is also established when there is no prompt action? Will you take care of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u27	Mr Segers, you did ask me about this three weeks ago. At that time, I tried to provide you with a comprehensive answer. I will now give you the latest state of affairs. You will forgive me if I have to stay in the plain for once, because the discussions are still ongoing. I can assure you that I am working on this issue. The first meetings on sexual exploitation via Instagram took place with Meta in the presence of Child Focus, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men and Google. I was there myself, by the way. It is too premature to share the preliminary conclusions of that internal consultation. First, we need to work out concrete steps in further consultation with them. However, I am cautiously optimistic about constructive cooperation. In order to concreteise these further steps, we are now discussing further with the Public Prosecutor's Office and partners such as Child Focus and the Institute. The approach to digital sexual violence, for both minors and adults, was addressed. In addition to the legal framework, we have also discussed other initiatives. So I now have a first overview with expectations and aspirations of Meta, Google, the partners and the prosecution. We are going to work on this in order to see what is appropriate and feasible. I suggest that you ask me again about this matter again shortly. Then I will be able to give you more details.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u28	That has been agreed, Minister. We have noted earlier that fewer and fewer findings of trafficking in human beings are being made by the police. At the same time, there is an increasing level of dismissal. The National Security Plan also says that there is a shift from human trafficking to the hidden. It is happening more and more online. However, there were no solutions in the National Security Plan. However, it is already covered in the Action Plan. However, this could be a little more extensive, as I said to you yesterday in the Human Trafficking Committee, especially if this proves to be the main analysis of the Safety Plan. It is also the case that the future central hotline, which also has a digital facet, will play an important role in this, as will the KB on advertising platforms. If trafficking in human beings is to adapt, the fight against it must also adapt. Entering decoy profiles can be an element of that. Thanks and good luck.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u29	Mr Minister, last Wednesday, a Limburg festival had to close its activities prematurely, in panic, as no fewer than 22 teenagers had lost consciousness. Again, there is a fear of a wave of wild bites. In the meantime, the Prosecutor's Office has been seized of the case since the scale of the event was worrying and medical tests have been carried out. There is nothing to report for the time being, according to the press, but we must note, Mr. Minister, that we are facing either a real new method of aggression, violent and insidious, or a real malaise, or even trauma, within the population and in particular among our young people. Some people are asking questions and we have to answer them. We cannot leave the perpetrators of these attacks, if they are proven, with impunity, or leave our young people without support to deal with this phenomenon, which may be due to an urban rumor but which has an increasingly important echo. I asked your colleague, the Minister of the Interior, about this, but she seemed to think that this phenomenon was not in her jurisdiction to refer the bullet to the local police areas anyway. That is why I am asking you, minister, hoping to find a better ear for you. Mr Minister, have the various investigations carried out by the public prosecutor's offices, including the one in Limburg, confirmed any stings? How do experts and prosecutors explain that 22 teenagers passed out at the above-mentioned festival? Do you take this phenomenon seriously and how do you respond to it? Have you discussed or intend to discuss this issue with your colleagues in the interior, in health, but also in equality of opportunity, or even with your colleagues from the federated entities responsible for raising awareness, to understand this phenomenon and to provide an effective response? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u30	Dear colleague, at this stage I have little specific information on this subject. I'll tell you what I know. It is true that young people were taken from a malaise at the "We R Young" festival in Hasselt following reports of needle bites. The events reported by the press are serious and require the full attention of the public prosecutor. The Limburg Public Prosecutor's Office takes the facts seriously and has opened an ongoing investigation. Pending the results, I can provide you with information on the current status of the investigation. So far, it has not been possible to prove that there is a needle spiking. In addition, it has not yet been shown that this was a problem in other complaints - those filed following a KV Mechelen football game on Saturday, May 21st and those filed at the "Inc'Rock" festival held in Incourt on the weekend of May 6th to 8th. All these complaints are taken seriously and are thoroughly investigated, including blood and urine tests. We must wait calmly for the results of these investigations. This means that no one has been charged at this time. It is therefore premature for names of suspects to circulate on social networks as a result of these alleged events in Limburg. We live in a rule of law and it is up to the judiciary and the police to track down suspects, prosecute them and then bring them to justice. Public piloris have no place in it, not even on social networks. Imagine for a moment being wrongly accused! The complaint of threat is therefore taken seriously by the police and the prosecution. Spiking is a phenomenon known mainly in the context of sexual offences. In our new sexual criminal law that comes into force tomorrow, we have explicitly made it punishable and this also includes the needle spying.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-31-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic800x.u31	Minister, thank you for considering these facts as serious facts that must be treated as such. This is in line with your recent new Criminal Code, whose ambition is to take the spicing seriously and punish it to the height of its gravity. It is fair that we should wait for the results of the ongoing investigations and respect the presumption of innocence. We must also put an end to these 2.0 tribunals, which undermine the fundamental principles of democracy. However, in the meantime, there is a fear among young people, while young people will come out more and more after the exams, not to mention the festival season. On the other hand, I am still hungry about the follow-up that we were entitled to expect from what you replied to my colleague, Nathalie Gilson. You said at that time that all complaints would be systematically followed up by the public prosecutor's offices and that a separate pool of specialised magistrates existed at the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office for this purpose. It would have been interesting to know what happened to the other prosecutors' offices, especially in areas where there was no sexual violence centre. Therefore, there is no possibility for victims to refer to such a centre and to file a complaint very quickly, since it is known that in such cases the complaint must take place within 24 hours or even before. You also referred to the fact that you are working on encoding such types of complaints. I would have liked to know more because, today, the result is that there are still no statistics and necessarily no targeted measures. In the meantime, I think it is really fundamental, alongside the ongoing investigations, to be able to raise awareness among the sectors, in particular the judiciary, lawyers and doctors.
