ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u1	Madam Minister, I had initially addressed my question to your colleague, Mr Vandenbroucke, because I am a member of the Committee on Health. However, it is good that I can also put them directly to you. My question came as a result of the strike in the East Flemish emergency power stations 112 at the end of December 2021, after a similar action had already taken place at the Antwerp emergency power station the week before. The employees wanted to sue the high workload. In this way, they also wanted to address the lack of working conditions, including the limited occupation, which sometimes means that citizens have to wait for minutes in the event of an emergency call. They also complain that they have to work with computers that are still running Windows 7. I don't know how old that is in the meantime, but some members have an IT background. I know Windows 7 has been coming along for a while. Madam Secretary, I have a number of specific questions. How will the problem be solved? Will additional resources be made available for more staff so that the workload can be reduced? Will initiatives also be taken to reduce administrative burdens? How will the problems with computers and other equipment be addressed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u2	Madam Minister, I, too, have been referred by your colleague Vandenbroucke from the Committee on Health to the Committee on the Interior. So I will address you. The other questioner asked how long it was since that particular Windows version was up-to-date. Mr De Caluwe, I can tell you that the support of Windows 95 was discontinued on 14 January 2020. So it's been a while. Madam Secretary, I too have a number of questions for you. I shall refer to Mr de Caluwe's statement before the introduction. Firstly, do you recognize the not insignificant problem? Secondly, your department was and will be referred to in the public health office. Have you had specific consultations with Minister Vandenbroucke or are consultations planned? If so, when? Thirdly, what do you consider to be the cause of the overcrowding of certain emergency power stations? Fourthly, how will you respond to the demand for a structural reduction in working pressure and the improvement of working conditions in general? In this context, I have a number of specific questions. Will resources be made available to recruit additional staff? If so, at what time will this happen? Will investments be made in better and more up-to-date equipment for the employees? On what time will you realize that? Can you provide a state of affairs and a timeline for the recruitment of employees? On what time will you realize it? Can you provide a state of affairs and a timeline for the renovation of the buildings of the East Flemish emergency power station? That point has been on the agenda for some time, especially since the 1990s. Is that renovation still on the schedule at all?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u3	Mr. President, Minister, 112 receives millions of calls every year. It is an essential service to citizens. And yet, for years, its power stations have been in structural deficit of telephone operators, particularly in Antwerp and Brussels. Some weekends, there's only one, two or three people to answer a hundred calls. While some 15 people are currently being sought to strengthen the power stations, the unions are concerned that there are not enough candidates for very large workloads, especially during this period of covid-19. Minister, what do you intend to do to strengthen these plants? How many posts are to be filled? Have recruitment procedures been initiated and where have they been? What will you do to enhance the attractiveness of this function and improve working conditions in order to find the necessary candidates?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u4	Mr President, since I have already been able to discuss the same subject with the Minister on several occasions, and because my colleagues have already been able to do the introductory part, I will come directly to my question. Madam Minister, your wish is clearly to recruit such profiles and to ensure the proper functioning of emergency power plants, since in your general policy note you indicated a few weeks ago that a pilot project would be launched in 2022 in order to considerably shorten the recruitment procedure to concentrate on the essential skills that operators must have. Therefore, Minister, when will this pilot project be launched this year? In the long run, how many operators will increase existing staff? When can we expect to see the entire emergency plant staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u5	Are there any colleagues who would like to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u6	Madam Minister, I recall from the debate on your policy paper that at the end of November recruitments would be started for those plants where the need was greatest and that there would also be a global recruitment procedure for the power stations at the beginning of 2022. Where do you stand with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u7	Mr President, it is true that some of the 101 and 112 power stations, including the 112 power station of East Flanders, have a staff problem. It is also correct that there have been problems with the dispatching software that all 101 plants and the four 112 plants, including those of East Flanders, use. The software has been upgraded, after which there have been several weeks of problems. It is, of course, understandable that this has caused frustration among the calltakers 101 and the operators 112. In the long term, the dispatching software will have to be replaced because new needs are emerging in the workplace and new functionalities are being put on the market that are still difficult to integrate into existing software. Each year, additional 112 and 101 operators are recruited. It was not otherwise in 2022. A total of 64 additional staff members were hired. Some have already entered service and others will soon receive their basic training. I have submitted a request for an additional appropriation for the 2022 budget. This request was accepted by the government. For 2022, there are 17 additional staff and 17 additional staff for 2023. To be able to recruit additional 112 operators and 101 calltakers is not only a matter of having sufficient staff credits. For example, two additional selection procedures had to be launched in 2021 for the 101 plants in East Flanders and Flemish Brabant because no candidates could be found in the first procedure. It is also apparent that some 101 and 112 plants have more difficulty in attracting enough candidates than others. This is particularly the case for Eastern Flanders, but it is also true for the Flemish Brabant, for example. New avenues are also being explored, including the introduction of selection procedures by type of plant and by province. At the end of November, new selection procedures for emergency power stations 112 of East Flanders and Flemish Brabant were launched. According to the first figures, some 140 interested candidates would have registered for each province. I therefore assume that after the current selection procedures there will be a sufficient number of potential candidates. I would also like to say that in East Flanders four operators 112 are currently in training, so that they will be operational within a few weeks. Initiatives have been taken for years to reduce the workload of operators 112. Examples include the introduction of the 112 app, which allows a more precise and thus faster location of the caller, and the 112 menu, which has not only made sure that less useless calls are made, but also that operators have to transfer 112 fewer calls to the 101 power stations, because the caller immediately makes the right choice via the menu. In addition, additional projects are planned to reduce the workload. I do not think that the problem lies in the attractiveness of the function. This is a function very close to the citizen because it is the first line of the rescue chain. It is a work with an additional salary and compensation for night and weekend work and allows to work in one's own province. I can also tell you that I have already made a number of visits to the emergency power stations, both 101 and 112, and that the people I could speak to there were also enthusiastic. They also gave this and are very willing to organise and operate the power stations properly. The administration is currently examining the possibilities, as well as possible problems associated with speeding up recruitment procedures. One of the problems is that it is difficult, on the basis of a written examination, to test oral communication skills. As regards the housing of the East Flemish emergency power station, the federal police and the Government of the Buildings are working together on the renovation project of the Groendreef complex in Ghent, in which a new working environment for the CIC will be set up. Studies were carried out to determine the future of the complex. This paves the way for determining the most appropriate public procurement procedure for the implementation of the project. A DBFMO operation with a private partner is also being studied. Since the procedure chosen will have a significant impact on the timing of the project's implementation, it is too early today to say when it will be realized. However, it is quite clear that all the actors involved, including the police, in consultation with the city of Ghent and with the mayor's inspiration, are working on the development of the project, in order to move forward as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u8	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. The emergency power stations are of course extremely important and therefore they must operate quickly and accurately. Those who call an emergency power station want to get someone on the phone and be helped as soon as possible. Callers usually have to be helped because they often call in panic making the call not always easy. Everything must therefore be in order in terms of staff and technology. In this respect, it is reassuring that in the short term there will be additional manpower at various emergency power stations. It is also necessary for emergency power stations to be involved in the latest technological developments. You referred to the 112 app, for which I thank you. I'm trying to promote that app in my community as much as possible, because those people can panic to help deliver their message much more clearly. If we want to continue to support such developments in the future, basic technology must also be as up-to-date as possible. I thank you in advance for the actions you are taking in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u9	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I am pleased that you recognise the problem and that there is sufficient attention to it. We agree across party boundaries that emergency power stations play an important role as the first link in aid in our country. For the Flemish interest, sufficient staff, quality equipment for such personnel and sound housing of emergency power stations are essential. I can only hope, therefore, that you will take action so that emergency power stations can carry out their work properly in the future. With regard to the housing of the East Flemish emergency power station, I have not really received an answer. The problem that has arisen in the past, which is still under investigation and for which there are still many things on the agenda, remains. In that respect, I remain somewhat hungry. I note, however, that you are already working on working conditions, which pleases us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u10	Minister, you are announcing that recruitment is planned. That's good news for field workers. We will ask you for more precise figures and a history of these figures through a written question in order to have more details. We will follow developments. As far as attractiveness is concerned, the unions say something else. They say that there is a problem of attractiveness that is not simply related to the question of salary, even if it can be part of the question, but it is not just that! Working conditions and particularly the workload are discussed. New workers who may land in the sector will find themselves in a situation whose events will exceed them. It's a real fear to people on the ground. This fear seems to me to be based on their own experience and their daily lives. They wouldn't make up such a thing! Proactive attention to working conditions, schedules, workload, etc. It must be taken into account since this is the main fear of trade union organisations and workers on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u11	Minister, thank you for your detailed answers. The numbers you shared with us are finally good news. We're moving forward and it's a good thing! Nevertheless, I shall return to application 112. You have instructed the citizen to make more use of this application. I take this opportunity to ask you to put it at the centre of a promotional campaign. Today, it is still too little used and probably ignored by citizens in the different regions of the country. Perhaps it would be worth discussing it again in a future debate. Thank you for the various actions you are taking in this area. I know you're very attentive.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u12	[F01/Vanessa Matz(cdH)/ ]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u13	Mr President, Madam Minister, this Thursday, January 20, a press article from the newspaper Le Soir reveals the findings of an investigation conducted by Committee P concerning the reception of victims of domestic violence in police stations. In 2015, Committee P had already issued a series of recommendations to improve the reception of victims. Since then, together with others, I have questioned you and the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities on the reception of victims of domestic violence. We also had an item on the reception of victims in resolutions that we voted under the previous legislature. To ensure follow-up, the P Committee conducted a new survey between February 2019 and June 2020. The report was discussed in committee in Parliament on Wednesday 19 January. The conclusions are particularly eloquent: lack of training; police areas without a reference officer or an ex officio officer in the office; collaborations between the police and specialized external actors who remain very weak; lack of follow-up with victims. The police officers, on the other hand, denounced a lack of training. Committee P reiterates its recommendation to increase awareness, increase training for police officers, systematize exchanges with external actors, and ensure the letter application of ministerial circulars. Madam Minister, I know that you will remind me of the series of actions that have been undertaken and which we have welcomed. Nevertheless, they seem to find it very difficult to materialize and, in any case, to be made visible on the ground. Have you also read the report of Committee P? What follow-up will you provide? What concrete actions will you put in place in the short, medium and long term? Exceptional emergency measures had been put in place during the crisis during confinements. Have they proved their worth? What happened? We know the importance, especially for the victim service, of being able to contact the victims who had come to file a complaint a few weeks or months earlier, and this follow-up initiated by a police zone seemed particularly interesting to us to generalize throughout the country. Are you going to sue them? The issue of violence is indeed at the heart of the government's agenda. However, concrete actions on the ground still seem to be lacking. Therefore, I would like to know the status of this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u14	Mr. Chair, Minister, Committee P recently issued a follow-up report on the reception of victims of domestic violence. It reveals major structural deficiencies in the response to these cases by our police forces: lack of communication and partitioning of services, lack of training and awareness among police officers – who are in demand of these trainings –, problems with the designation of a reference police officer, lack of standardization of good practice, etc. It seems like it's "the rule of the scramble" in our police areas. A striking example is that when a family moves, the information is not transmitted from one police area to another. Minister, do you recognize that there is a structural problem with the response of our police forces to these issues? What are you going to do about this report? More specifically, with regard to the absence of reference police officers, some areas do not have reference police at all, such as this area, which has had no reference police in the last two years, following a departure from the pension. When they are appointed, these police officers are sometimes without any consultation, and find themselves alone in dealing with these difficult problems. How do you explain this situation and what do you intend to do to ensure the appointment of these reference police officers, and to enable them to perform their duties in good conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u15	Mr President, Madam Minister, we were able to take note of the various recommendations at the meeting of the committee responsible for the follow-up of Committee P on 19 January. I regret that the press has already talked about this when we are still discussing it in the committee. However, we have already been able to discuss it, since I have asked you many times about the training of police officers and the lack of reference police officers in particular. Minister, have you been able to read this new report from Committee P? In the light of your policy note, what follow-up do you intend to do? Are you considering concrete actions in the short term? If so, which ones? At the time of containment, emergency measures had been put in place. What conclusions could be drawn from this in the context of the covid crisis? Couldn't some of them be perpetuated? On this specific theme of the reception of victims of domestic violence, do you intend to establish a collaboration with Secretary of State Schlitz, whose National Action Plan to Combat Gender-Based Violence 2021-2025 already highlights some police improvements required? Finally, where are you in the implementation of the Federal Gender mainstreaming 2020-2024 Plan? How do you intend to incorporate these new conclusions shared by Committee P on domestic violence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u16	Mr President, Madam Minister, I will not repeat what has just been said by my colleagues. I would just like to remind you that this report compiles the results of 23 interviews with members of the police force and external actors in this area. There are many teachings. There is, however, a consistent pattern of lack of training. There is ongoing training in this area, but the police are left with the freedom to participate or not. However, it appears that the interest is limited and that few agents are involved. Furthermore, the authors note that there are too few awareness-raising activities. At the same time, some very concrete problems are also pointed out. For example, the difficulty, still sometimes present, simply to succeed in bringing the complaint to an end. The study cites the case of a reception office in a police zone which, until recently, sent back all the victims presenting themselves without a medical certificate. As for the obligation to designate a focal point for domestic violence, some areas have not yet implemented it. Minister, have you been aware of the recommendations made by Committee P in its report, particularly with regard to training and awareness? What concrete initiatives, particularly in the light of the new National Plan of Action to Combat Gender-Based Violence, do you intend to take in this context? How do you intend to ensure the effectiveness of the measures already taken? I am thinking in particular of the need to have a reference agent in each area.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u17	Madam Minister, the P Committee published the results of a follow-up study on the reception of victims of intra-family violence. The report concludes that there has been a positive development since 2006, partly as a result of a publication with strict guidelines for police services. Nevertheless, the P Committee notes that these directives are not always strictly respected, which could threaten the positive development that has been achieved. The report therefore makes a number of recommendations to further improve the situation. Among other things, it is a question of obliging intra-family violence training to eliminate false assumptions that still exist among police officers, but also of raising awareness and recommendations regarding the internal and external referral of victims. It also involves developing strategies to improve the integrated and integrated functioning of intra-family violence, by establishing links and interacting with external services for comprehensive and professional care of victims. I have four specific questions. What is your response to the Committee P report and its recommendations? To what extent can you accept these recommendations? What obstacles do you see, if any? Within what period do you consider it possible to transpose some of the recommendations contained in the report? Are initiatives already underway within the police to further improve the reception of victims of intra-family violence? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u18	Madam Minister, as far as the P Committee and his report are concerned, it is fantastic that a great deal of research is being carried out on partner violence and that it is being examined whether the police services function properly when there is partner violence. This evolution can only be welcomed. As far as the results are concerned, we often see that partner violence is still being banned. Exactly a year ago, we were talking in plenary about the bans, which were barely implemented at the time. That only happened in Limburg and Antwerp. Now they are performed sporadically in Brussels and Flemish Brabant. Then Mr Van Quickenborne said that a letter would be sent. The problem was that the police did not know that they could simply implement a house ban, a ten-day cooling-off period. Is that Circulating there right now? After all, there are all kinds of things circulating. Those letters are there, but do the police really know about that? There was the example of reception staff who refused to act on a report because a victim came without a medical certificate. Last year, figures came up. Up to thirty times, a person must be subjected to intra-family violence, either physically or mentally, before lodging a complaint. It is therefore unacceptable that people should simply be sent home without listening to their story when they finally gather all the courage to go to a police station. There are a lot of recurring signals, stories that people who are finally getting tired of knocking should sound very familiar in the ears. Every day they hear they're useless and treated like slaves. That's a lot more than just looking at a medical certificate. Is there a request? Are training courses provided for this purpose? Those situations can be analysed much better. How's the person in question before the police department? What does that person look like? Is he sleeping okay? Does it eat well? How is social interaction with family and the environment? All these things need to be checked out to see what's going on there and whether there's a problem situation in that family. The withdrawal of the complaint is another point. The Committee P points out that the lady probably does not know what she wants. That should be an alarm signal. The unsub is taking back control and making sure that the lady withdraws her complaint anyway. The district cop, the CAWs and the like have to work more closely. Now there's barely a phone call. Those involved receive a ticket or leaflet and very often it has to be hidden from the unsub. There too, we need to work more closely, not only when we move, but also when we do not move. We need to look at how these victims can be accompanied by grooming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u19	Madam Minister, last week the P Committee presented the report on intra-family violence. We can see that major steps have been taken in the right direction since 2006 to tackle this violence, but much remains to be done. The report makes a number of recommendations. For example, it should be pointed out that training needs to be increased in order to identify problems more quickly. It is also indicated that the district agent should be the first link. It is also important to exchange more information more quickly between different police areas. What strikes me in practice is that there are also clear regional differences. In Antwerp and certainly in Limburg they already have very good results with this approach. This is inextricably linked to the creation of the Family Justice Centers in Antwerp and Hasselt. In such a centre, various services are brought together under one roof, namely assistance, police and justice. Madam Minister, do you see the possibility of putting the recommendations of the P Committee into practice in the short term? The Family Justice Centers are clearly paying off. This is, of course, subject to a cost that is often borne by the local authorities. Do you think it is possible for you to roll this system out of the country together with your colleague in the Justice Department in the short term? This could be linked to federal resources. Mrs Jiroflée could not be here today, but I would also like to ask one of her questions. Are there any other measures you would like to take in response to the report?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u20	First of all, I would like to thank the P Committee for the detailed and detailed report which can help to improve the service provided by the police. With regard to the report of Committee P on domestic violence, I have received a number of sometimes similar questions. First of all, Mrs Matz, you refer in particular to the awareness-raising and training of police officers on the specific issue of domestic violence, the existence of good practices and the financing of initiatives on domestic violence in police areas. On the other hand, Mr Boukili, you have raised a number of problems which have shown, in particular, a lack of communication or rather of exchange of information, coordination and partitioning of services within police structures, but also the need for a better orientation towards external services. As you yourself rightly explained in your question, Mrs Matz, this report by Committee P is very recent and was discussed on 19 January 2022 in the Special Monitoring Committee of Committee P. I would therefore like to stress that this report must be and will be studied in depth in collaboration with the police services. Indeed, I will examine in more detail how we can address the recommendations and areas for improvement. The objective of the P Committee's report was to evaluate the 2015 recommendations, following a study conducted between February 2019 and June 2020. The report concludes that the reception of victims of intra-family violence has a positive evolution, but that there are still several areas of concern. I would like to take this to heart. One conclusion is already indisputablely clear. This is a shared responsibility, in which all actors concerned do not flee from their responsibility but recognise that this particular problem requires a multidisciplinary approach or, even better, a chain-based approach. The police would like to strengthen their contribution to this chain approach. We cannot expect the police to do everything, but to do everything to be a strong link in the chain in dealing with this complex problem. I will also come back to this chain approach on several occasions in my reply. In view of the various questions, I will try to structure my answer. I shall begin with the directives and initiatives on tackling intra-family violence. I would then like to give you an overview of current developments in the field of training, education and awareness raising. Then I will conclude my reply with an overview of the financial support and cooperation that has been developed in this area over the past period. In the case of intra-family violence, police officers are under the authority of the judicial authorities, which distribute the guidelines through the COLs. In addition to the local authorities, responsible for their police areas, I, as Minister, am responsible for a number of organisational and support measures in the field of resources, such as personnel, logistics, ICT and finance, as well as for the integrated operation, for example for the recognition of police training. As a result of the covid pandemic and the various waves of the past two years, it was obviously not always easy for the police to work. I would like to thank all police officers, who, in these difficult circumstances, dealt with often poignant situations with great care and commitment, for their work. However, the crisis also brought some improvements. Just think of the possibility to report sexual violence online via Police-on-web. I also note here a point of reference for the future, in particular how we should organise our police so that they can take on unexpected, new and major challenges, such as the maintenance of the corona measures, without compromising the other basic tasks. I would now like to address the specific questions. The urgent and exceptional measures taken by the Integrated Police Task Force in the context of sexual violence and the covid pandemic were certainly necessary, especially in the light of the lockdown and curfew that were applicable at the time. All police areas were asked to pay particular attention to the problem, with an explicit mention of intra-family violence, and to the measures taken. By the way, the parquets have also responded to this. The circular of the College of Attorneys General COL 20/2020 on the generalisation of police revisiting in situations of partner violence during the corona crisis was also issued. In addition, following the second wave in 2020, the Federal Government adopted a plan to combat gender and intra-family violence, including measures in the area of justice and police. All measures, including the sensitisation of police officers and ensuring re-contact, are therefore still applicable and will be followed up. In the meantime, the measures were also enshrined in the National Action Plan against Gender-based Violence, which is under the direction of the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities and in which my services have worked intensively. That action plan was recently approved by federal and sub-state governments in autumn 2021. The short- and medium-term measures on the chain approach to intra-family violence are listed, including measures specific to the police. For more specific information, please refer to the plan published on the website of the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities. Under the leadership of the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, the action plan measures will be followed by a so-called monitoring committee with representatives of civil society, such as NGOs. In addition, an interdepartmental working group under the chairmanship of the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities was established. It aims to monitor the implementation of the measures defined in the Action Plan in policy and administrative terms. Both my office and the police will be represented and the work of this working group will begin in February. It is clear that the police services will provide the necessary assistance in monitoring the measures that apply to them. Again, for more information, I would like to refer to the cabinet of the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities. With regard specifically to the sensitisation and training of police officers, I regret to have to refer again to the current special circumstances of the COOVID-19 pandemic, which meant that a number of training courses had to be suspended or postponed. During this period it was not always possible to organise certain training courses in optimum conditions so that the participants have the greatest possible learning effect. The improvement points in this area will certainly be included in the training plan for the police, in which intra-family violence is explicitly mentioned as a priority, as well as in the recognition files for basic, continuing and functional training. The necessary awareness will be given to police schools as well as police services. This does not mean that little would have happened in terms of sensitisation and training. On the contrary, the police are currently optimizing and completing the recognition files of both the continuing training of sex inspector and that of police assistant. In particular, I would like to point out the training entitled "Inspector of the police of morals for centres for the management of sexual violence". It was set up, in consultation with the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, as part of the establishment of these care centres. Its purpose is to train police officers more specifically in morals and to specialize in the conduct of such investigations and to cooperate effectively with the partners of the care centre. This relates primarily to front-line police missions, and therefore primarily to police officers assigned to local police areas. It is up to the various authorities to register the police officers they consider most concerned, in view of their duties and assignment service. With the gradual introduction of the CPVS, more schools will also offer this training as early as 2022. I cannot specify from the outset the number of sessions that will be organised, but the aim is to meet all the needs, that it is up to the zonal authorities to relay, and to have an effective participation of the police services in the CPVOs. In addition, the police, together with the various directors of police schools, will examine further the content of basic training on victimisation and crimes in the context of gender-related violence in the context of mutual consultation. The harmonization and uniformity of the various training courses on intra-family and sexual violence, both in basic and continuing training, is also an objective of the new National Safety Plan, which will be adopted shortly. The content of training needs to be adapted in concrete terms to current legislation and current policy initiatives. All initiatives should be based on a gender-related view of violence in line with the Istanbul Convention. It is important to bear in mind the distinction between the police generalist, who is involved in intervention, reception or community work, who is sensitized to the problem, and the specialist, such as the sex inspector, the victim person or the reference person, who is an expert in this field, even though they are not allowed to work alongside each other, but must operate with each other. I would like to take note of the recommendations made by the P Committee in order to give greater consideration to the role of district agents in future. According to the report, district agents should be close to the people, be able to obtain information from the neighbours, report facts and warn other, more specialised services about or provide information on all kinds of disturbing elements. They can approach people in their private sphere more easily than other intermediate parties and also maintain privileged contacts with different actors. The appropriate training of district agents would be an undeniable added value, as would the expansion of their currently very limited role, which is little or not known or recognised. I therefore believe that the aspect of proximity police can make a difference. Mr Boukili, you mentioned how a number of things went wrong in terms of the flow of information due to a lack of communication, the lack of functioning and the lack of exchange of information, but such aspects relate mainly to the execution of the task of the judicial police, where the police are under the authority of the judicial authorities. The guidelines for this are set out in the COLs. Undoubtedly, the judicial authorities, in particular reference magistrates, who have a leading role in the police chain-based approach, will take the necessary action. If this has consequences for the general awareness and training of police officers, then my office will follow the necessary proposals for improvement. In the context of the topical debate, reference can be made to the granting of grants to cities and municipalities through strategic security and prevention plans, for which the total amount is EUR 35 million, with a view to developing prevention projects around different phenomena, including intra-family violence and partner violence. As part of its mission, the General Directorate for Security and Prevention grants to 109 municipalities in support of local prevention policies. Of these 109 municipalities, some 30 cities and municipalities have included intra-family violence as a priority in their prevention plans and have developed prevention projects specifically aimed at this phenomenon. I am thinking of awareness campaigns, animations in schools, the organisation of workshops for women and the creation of shelters for victims and offenders. In addition to the financial support, the General Directorate for Security and Prevention provides thematic support to all cities and municipalities through cartography and data sheets of local prevention projects on intra-family violence through its website. In addition, specific information is also provided on the different aspects of gender-based violence, for example on honor-related violence and sexual violence. In addition, the impulse project against intra-family violence recently launched a call to cities and municipalities. Such an incentive policy for cities and municipalities should encourage them to develop projects to prevent intra-family violence in cooperation with other municipalities of their police area or other police zones. The objectives of that project are to support expertise on the issue of intra-family violence in cities and municipalities, to encourage cities and municipalities concerned to share their experience and expertise with other cities and municipalities, in particular to promote supra-local operation and cooperation and, finally, to develop innovative pilot projects. Projects may be submitted until the end of February 2022, after which a selection will be made. In addition, a web page was created on besafe.be, where all useful information for cities and municipalities can be found. For the security and prevention plans, the additional resources do not go directly to the police zones, but to the cities and municipalities that also implement the multidisciplinary chain approach to intra-family violence. For the sake of completeness, I would also like to inform you that funding for the subject is being made available at European level. The Citizens, Equality, Rights and Values programme has launched a call for the prevention and fight against gender-based violence and violence against children. Thereupon, through the Executive Board of the International Cooperation of the Federal Police, the Integrated Police made a call to participate in projects that would be submitted and approved by the Member States. In this way, Belgium also wants to play a European role. Finally, I would like to stress that the report of the P Committee is still fresh from the press. So let's analyze it even further to figure it out. I may not have to repeat to you how much I am concerned about this important issue. Together with all the competent authorities and services, the police services in particular, we will not only address the recommendations in the report of the P Committee, which specifically refer to a crisis period, but also to the new policies in line with the adopted Action Plan. Mr Moyaers, it is clear that the Family Justice Centers are paying off. There is, of course, a price tag that must be borne to a large extent by the local authorities. The roll-out of the Family Justice Centers is a Flemish project and therefore also a Flemish competence. My cabinet is represented on the advisory committee 'Research Family Justice Center model in a multidisciplinary chain approach', which explores how this rollout can best be organised. Cooperation with the regular welfare services, including with the judiciary and police, is also being investigated with a view to developing a workable model of intra-family violence. Both the police, the judiciary and the Equal Opportunities Department are involved. At the present stage I think it is important to wait for the work at the level of Flanders first. Of course, the police, like justice, I suspect, will work constructively together on all initiatives aimed at a multidisciplinary approach to the problem. However, there is no provision for federal funding of partial initiatives for the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u21	Madam Minister, I thank you for this comprehensive response, in which unfortunately I can only note the establishment of plans, working groups and meetings. As I said, little seems to be happening on the ground even though the will – as we have always stressed – seems to be present. When I hear you say that you have just – and it is right – inherited this report from Committee P, I would remind you that the problem of training, referrals and receiving victims in police stations is not new. It is not dated 19 January, the date of the submission of this report. It's more than time to move to higher speed! I also hear that the covid slowed down a series of things. The pandemic has not lasted for five years either, nor for the number of years that political parties have been putting the case for the victims on the table! It is more than time to act because it is also the guarantee that victims can go and file a complaint because they will feel that they are being heard and considered as victims. That is the problem. We've known all along. In domestic violence, it is the fear of not being believed and heard that leads the victims not to file a complaint. The quality of reception in police stations is paramount! I hear a whole series of actions. The best is the enemy of good. Here, you have the impression that a lot of things are thought but not materialized. You are urged to implement these measures very quickly so that victims feel listened to and allowed to file complaints, which is essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u22	Madam Minister, first of all, you say that all actors bear a responsibility. What actors are we talking about? I don't see very well. This is a report of Committee P on the Police. I don't see who the other actors are. In your answer, I have the impression that there is no awareness that this is really a structural problem that needs to be addressed. You thank the collaborators. You're talking about Police-on-web for online complaints. These are complaints of sexual violence and domestic violence. These are not things we do online, minister. This is about the need for psychological support. Agents must do just that because it is an important task. It's very heavy for the victims. You can't do this on the web, like you're registering on Netflix. It is necessary to determine who will take care of this on the ground. For the rest of the questions, you refer us to Mrs Schlitz's action plan. I am also learning that working groups are being set up. But, in reality, police officers are not properly trained. You're telling us that the criminal police are supposed to pass the communication, but they've been underfunded for years. She doesn't have the means to do this. We say it every time; if we want the judicial police to do so, we must give it the means to do so. There is no specialized service for such violence. Reference police officers, when they exist, do this in addition to other tasks. Sometimes they're not even named at all. So there is a structural problem that needs to be addressed. In addition, there are still too few centres for dealing with sexual violence, and sometimes they are already full. I shall come back to this issue shortly, particularly to Mrs Schlitz. Minister, I have been calling for two years. It is not specific to you but to the Vivaldi policy in general: when we question a serious problem and we have to act in a concrete way, we often get answers with big statements, plans, working groups and think tanks. And, in the meantime, nothing happens. No concrete action is taken. If this were not the case, the people on the ground would not react to denounce this situation. It is therefore time to take action and put an end to the plans and working groups!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u23	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. It is time to put into practice the recommendations that have been made for a very long time and that have been reminded of us by Committee P. Finally, the report of that Committee can be regarded as a reminder to order. As you said, many things are done and put in place. You have cited many examples. But everything that has been implemented so far is very inefficient. In my view, the neighbourhood officer should be a central link in the reception and follow-up of victims. As I have already said in this committee, its role is too minimalist. This member of the police must become a much more central actor for the citizen. In fact, the role he may have is underestimated. However, it could play a very important role as a liaison officer and allow for a break-up within the police stations which the P Committee still regrets today. Indeed, the neighbourhood agent could be called upon to come into contact with these families in difficulty, these victims. This could be done by linking with intervention teams or other police officers in the area. On the other hand, I have already talked a lot about training. In my opinion, we must act. It's true that the covid didn't help us. However, this problem of training has not occurred in the past. Already before the covid, we were talking about it. Concrete action must now be taken to raise awareness among all police officers, but also to provide mandatory ongoing training on the reception of victims, regardless of the difficulties they face. A victim remains a victim. They must be able to be welcomed and followed up, which is not the case at present. Minister, in this area, very concrete measures can be put in place, beyond plans and working groups. I know you're sensitive to the question. I therefore expect us to act together in this committee to put in place concrete measures. However, I would like to thank you for all the measures you have already implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u24	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am interested in this reality, which unfortunately is still that of far too many women. As a reminder, in 2020, Amnesty published a report explaining that one in five women will be subjected to sexual violence in her lifetime. In 2021, there were at least 22 femicides. In 2022, there was a femicide! These figures are intriguing. In addition, many victims do not dare to file a complaint and remain silent. This scourge affects families with a wide variety of profiles. In addition, I have introduced a bill that proposes training against harassment and sexual abuse in the training of guarding officers working in the exit community. I believe that all members of the police force must also be trained and made aware of this subject. There are many other initiatives that exist, be they political or citizen, in all parts of our society. Let us be serious: how can we enforce obligations if our own police services do not always assume their own? I am thinking here of the designation of the reference agents. Minister, things must change!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u25	It is, of course, a long-standing problem. Mrs Lanjri has already asked several questions about this in the past. I'm certainly satisfied with your position on the district agent. That should be part of the trigger, the eyes and ears of the neighborhood. I understand the training was delayed by corona. In any case, the policy must not get bogged down in working groups and talk barracks. On the other hand, we must try to tackle the problem by means of concrete actions. We are only January 2022 and again there were incidents. We must not rest on our laurels. I have every confidence in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u26	There are plans, meetings, working groups, reports, recommendations and plans. A cat can't find her boy in it anymore. The problem does not date from 2019, but from long before. Are the victims actually served with such an answer? Will the dark number drop with this? You are constantly referring and replying so technically, as if you have been in politics for 40 years. In his answers, Mr Van Quickenborne merely gives concrete details of what the public prosecutors should do. I have put four specific questions here. Are the people concerned being grabbed? Are there any signals being looked at? I don't get an answer for anything. You propose to read a plan you're working on, but no one will be helped with it. It would also be a credit to you if you could give a concrete answer. Then you would at least be involved and know which way you want to go. I didn't hear that today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u27	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. For a moment I thought I'd stay hungry, but the answer finally came. I understand that, too, because the Family Justice Centers are a Flemish jurisdiction. The price tag is indeed mainly borne by the local authorities. You say that the General Directorate of Security and Prevention subsidises many cities and municipalities. It would be a great pity if the Family Justice Centers could not be subsidised by this means, just because it is a Community competence. We would then really work side by side, while we would be stronger if we could deal with the problem together.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u28	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. The report by the P Committee, which I welcome, clearly puts the finger on the wound. Intra-family violence is a major social problem. We must note that the approach taken by the police and the attention given to it are still inadequate, even though initiatives have been taken in the past to improve it. In my view, the police should immediately start working on the many concrete recommendations contained in the report. I am thinking of making training compulsory on intra-family violence, meeting the need for better knowledge of the social approach, the introduction of a social map and the chain approach. Indeed, intra-family violence cannot only be dealt with by the police, but it is an important link in the chain. In any case, the agents must know which services to contact. I also read that there are problems with the reception staff, who are often CALog staff. They need to be trained, all the more so because we find that victims are sent home without a complaint. We also see this in the case of victims of sexual violence, a problem that we have already raised in a different context. I think that we should look critically at the role of civilian staff in the reception and consider the question of what profile such staff should have and what training they should receive. It is intended that the reception staff should point the way to complaint and police officers and certainly not raise additional thresholds for the victim. In addition to knowledge about partner violence, the report stated that attention should also be paid to better attitudes. Sometimes there's a tactless response. The victim care service is also insufficiently present and should be more involved. I hope that you will get to work on these recommendations immediately, including the recommendation that each area should appoint a reference officer. I don't know if it's like that everywhere. I'll check in my city of Leuven to see if there's a reference officer. I also noticed that, in the context of internal cooperation between police and CALog personnel within the area, there is hardly any use of psychologists and social assistants, who, as civilian personnel, could play a very important role in the police's approach. Better cooperation and integration with the police themselves are therefore needed in this area. Finally, we must also make progress in cooperation with the external social assistance sector. There is the knowledge to accompany families and couples, among other things, when there is intra-family violence, or to assess the risk to children. I agree with what colleagues have said about this. It is also the role of local authorities to bridge the gap between the local police zone and the social welfare zones. You also referred to the role of the district agent. Neighborhood agents play a very important role. I am totally following the model of the proximity police, but perhaps we should consider whether the function of district agent can be upgraded. After all, this function is not always popular in the police zones, while it is a very useful function.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u29	Madam Secretary, preferably one in seven police officers suffers from post-traumatic complaints, half of which concern serious complaints. This is shown by a study by the KU Leuven of 2,000 Flemish agents that could be viewed by the newspaper De Standaard. 7.4 % of operational police officers are formally suffering from the four symptoms of PTSS: re-experience of the incident, avoidance of thoughts or situations reminiscent of the incident, intense vigilance and tension, and a strong negative impact on day-to-day functioning. Another 7.6 % suffers from three of the four symptoms. According to the investigators, this would only be the lower limit. They point out that agents tend to underestimate their complaints. The study also shows that PTSS is as common in small as in large police areas, in the city or in rural areas, in men and in women. So we can say that this is a general problem which deserves our attention and an appropriate approach. PTSS is often accompanied by other mental complaints, suicidal thoughts and alcohol and/or drug abuse. In the research the researchers also formulate a number of concrete policy recommendations, such as better aligning the internal aid supply with the follow-up after incidents and on the diagnosis and treatment of PTSS. Moreover, the provision of internal assistance would be under-used at the moment because agents would be ashamed of psychological complaints. Madam Minister, can you explain how post-traumatic complaints and PTSD are currently being dealt with within the police's internal assistance? Are there any possibilities for preventive action against post-traumatic complaints within the police organisation? If so, how do you actually see this happening? Will you, in consultation with the relevant actors, seek to further focus on the follow-up of incidents and on the diagnosis and treatment of post-traumatic complaints and PTSS? How do you intend to make better use of internal aid? Are you planning actions to address the shame of agents regarding psychological complaints?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u30	Madam Minister, as Mr Demon outlined, the KU Leuven report does come up with worrying figures. Nine out of ten have experienced physical violence and one out of three has feared intervention once before for his or her life and so on. The police are being treated more and more like the bogeyman or the enemy of society. In that context, I have a few questions. What does the internal police offer of assistance to police officers consist of? Do you agree with the conclusion of the study that the offer of aid is underutilized? What are the existing help possibilities within the police for PTSD? When will the analysis of the policy recommendation from the study be finalised?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u31	Minister, a recent KUL study shows that more than one in seven police officers in Flanders suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder. Of the operational police officers, 7.4% reported suffering from the four PTSD symptoms: reliving the incident, avoiding thoughts or situations reminiscent of the incident, excessive vigilance and tension, and a strong negative impact on day-to-day functioning. In addition, 7.6% are fighting three of these four symptoms. According to the researchers, this is a minimalistic figure, with agents tending to underestimate their complaints. There do not appear to be any gender or age differences. Minister, are you aware of this phenomenon? What have you done to address this? Are police officers being followed psychologically to prevent and deal with these problems? Is PTSD considered an occupational disease? How and by whom are cared for?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u32	Mr President, Minister, I also refer to the published inquiry. What struck me in the article is that post-traumatic stress syndrome (PTSS) is associated with other mental problems such as suicidal thoughts. A lot of agents involved in the storming of the Capitol last year committed suicide afterwards. So there's a connection between PTSD and suicidal ideation, and the risk is real. PTSD would also lead to emotional action and the otherwise estimation of danger. I've asked you before, but what happens to cops dealing with violence? In what way are they supported after they have become victims of violence against the police? You replied at the time, but this study shows that the existing internal aid supply is under-utilised. Hence my questions. When will this study be published? What will you do with the policy recommendations? What lessons should we draw from these conclusions? How can the existing aid offer be better exploited so that agents who are victims can already get the help they deserve today?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u33	Mr President, of course I also refer to the study of KUL. I will not repeat what my colleagues have said. On the other hand, I would like to remind the minister that in 2019, the University of Mons also revealed that 39% of police officers were in post-traumatic stress disorder. In the end, the situation does not seem to have improved, given that a new study by another university shows equally worrying figures. That is why I would like to ask the minister again about this issue. I would like to know, on the one hand, what psychological support tools are currently available to our police officers. Can you explain their under-utilization? On the other hand, are complementary tools envisaged to complement the existing offer? Is a policy for the prevention of these disorders being implemented at this stage or is it being considered? I would also like to ask you about recognizing post-traumatic stress as an occupational illness for police officers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u34	Mr President, Minister, I also refer to the article and study of the KU Leuven. The images we saw last Sunday of lying nadar fences help us to form an image of where post-traumatic stress can come from. I think that's just the tip of the iceberg. We shouldn't just focus on the police zones in the cities. This also plays a role in smaller police areas. Our police officers suffer from post-traumatic stress, which has a very large impact on their daily functioning. This is not only detrimental to their health, but also to the safety of our society in general. There is an offer of aid, but it seems that there is insufficient use of it. There is a need for psychological help, which still seems to me to be a very big taboo, including within the police. I have a few questions about that. How will we better market the use of internal aid for psychological complaints, so that more use will be made of them? This study is limited to 2,000 respondents. Of course, that is not little, but will you also allow the police to carry out a broader and more in-depth study? How better to arm cops against the syndrome? For example, are there any possibilities for this to be included in the training itself?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u35	Colleagues, as Minister of the Interior, I am aware of the phenomenon of post-traumatic stress disorder (post-traumatic stress syndrome, PTSS). The work done to provide support and support for police officers who have been confronted with a critical incident, thus reducing the number of PTSSs in the services, is already well developed. However, improvements can still be made. The actors involved in this theme will participate in the analysis of the recommendations and in the implementation of an action plan that is closest to the police reality, whether in terms of follow-up and care or in terms of diagnosis. It is too early to set a date for the implementation of the action plan in response to the recommendations. But every effort will be made to implement the measures as quickly as possible. In the same spirit, the internal offer will be analysed with the actors concerned, in order to better understand the situation of staff members who would develop psychic complaints and offer them the most appropriate accompaniment. With the federal police, there's the stress team. That's a service that provides psychosocial support to integrated police personnel. That team is composed of about 20 social assistants and psychologists, who are specifically specialised in trauma processing, but also in other psychosocial risks associated with police work. The main mission of the service is crisis intervention in events that may be traumatic. The service operates 24 hours on 24 and 7 out of 7 for the entire territory, in both languages, and for the benefit of both federal and local police. Moreover, that service is of course completely free of charge. The intervention of the stress team may occur immediately after an incident and/or during a prolonged follow-up. A number of police areas have a similar internal service or a peer support team. A peer support team consists of colleagues who have been trained to take the first intervention with colleagues who have experienced a critical incident. Other police areas call on the provincial support service. Some external prevention and protection services at work also ensure support and follow-up for police officers who have experienced a potentially traumatic event. In the area of prevention, awareness-raising and training in the prevention and management of post-traumatic stress (PTSS) are provided in police schools during the basic training of principal inspectors aspirants and police commissioners. Awareness-raising and training are provided through ongoing training organized by police schools. In addition, annual emotional supervisions are proposed by the Stresteam team to staff members whose nature of the function exposes them to potentially traumatic situations, in order to prevent the emergence of a function-related PTSS as soon as possible. These people may also ask to be seen more often, if necessary. Depending on the specific elements of the individual file, the PTSS can be recognised as a consequence of an accident at work or as an occupational disease. In both cases, reimbursement of medical expenses is provided in accordance with the applicable rules. The offer of support and guidance is already well developed and is largely in line with what is described in the research and in the proposals of the Action Plan. Of course, improvements are always desirable and possible. That is exactly what we should achieve with the analysis and work on the recommendation issued following the study for an action plan, by getting all the internal actors in the police force around the table, but also by consulting the parties involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u36	Madam Secretary, if I understand correctly, the stress team consists of twenty social assistants and psychologists and the team works both for the federal police and for the local areas. It's 24 hours out of 24 and 7 days out of 7. It's also free. Is that enough?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u37	Madam Minister, I am pleased to hear that police schools are focusing on early learning of how to deal with it, but also on its prevention. Those schools are the right place to do that. However, by speaking to police officers who were attacked and who in certain cases fear for their lives, I have learned that it is important in the processing process that they know what the consequences are for the attackers or the people who put them at risk. That hatch is in the Justice Department. We will discuss this later in the wake of last Sunday's riots. I think it is very important that policemen or women know that their attackers are being punished and are no longer free.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u38	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. You said it was recognized as an occupational disease. That's good news. I think it's information that will be of interest to the police. I'm just wondering about the procedure, but I think these are things we can find. So, what are the procedures and procedures for reimbursement of medical expenses, and so on? I also ask myself the same question as Mr Moyaers – I don't know if he was – about the sufficiency of existing services. I have no idea. We will check whether the staff assigned to this type of task is in sufficient numbers. I hope that's the case. But in any case, I think that the fact that PTSS is considered as an occupational disease is a positive factor for our police officers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u39	I would like to join Mr Moyaers. The well-being of the police, of the individual police officers, is a very important subject. It also has an impact on the security of our society, of course. We need to study the recommendations of the study carefully. Madam Secretary, you say in your reply that there is an offer of aid. Of course, I have no doubt that there is already an offer of aid. However, we need to see how we can make that even more targeted and how we can improve the diagnosis and treatment of PTSS in it. Perhaps we should also evaluate the current offer of assistance and ideally, in cooperation with universities, look at what is now an evidence-based approach, so that we can help agents with post-traumatic stress disorder as best we can. The investigation says that many agents are ashamed of their psychological complaints, that physical complaints can be discussed much more easily, but psychological complaints are much more difficult. There is a need for cultural change. Cops need to be able to get support from each other. That can't be taboo anymore. You are also engaged in a leadership exercise within the police. In this exercise, the necessary attention will also have to be paid to this cultural change. The reaction of the police in the article in De Standaard was striking. The police would analyse the recommendations and assess their feasibility. What is meant by feasibility? Is that about financial feasibility? It's feasible anyway, because it's about the well-being of cops. It also affects absenteeism and the future functioning of the agent. Every euro put into welfare policy deserves to be paid back. Feasibility must not be an excuse to stop investing in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u40	Mr President, I would simply like to thank the Minister. I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u41	Madam Secretary, I have the same thoughts as some of my colleagues here. The stress team is here, there's an offer of help. That is certainly good, but the question is whether that is enough. There is still a very big taboo about psychic well-being. We must pay due attention to this so that, if they have a problem, they can actually be helped if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u42	Are there any colleagues who would like to join the replies? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u43	Madam Minister, the time has come again: on Sunday 23 January, 50,000 people from all over Europe traveled the streets of Brussels in protest against the corona measures. As with the previous corona demonstrations, this demonstration also resulted in riots, destruction and violence against our police forces. The footage of cops getting kicked with crazy fences was just nauseating. And yes, the vast majority of the Protestants were there to argue peacefully and kept it quiet, but in view of the experience of the previous demonstrations, which were always leading to riots, we can ask whether it was wise to allow the demonstration and whether it is all worth it. My thoughts go out to the police officers who were the victims of violence against their individual and who may have been injured. I sincerely hope that all of the perpetrators will be caught and punished. Meanwhile, we can read that the unions are frustrated by the low number of persecutions of the rioters at previous demonstrations. I will therefore be interviewing your colleague from the Justice Department in the near future. My party is in favour of zero tolerance for violence against policemen. You share that ambition. Especially in such cases, this needs to be done. Before Christmas, I already asked questions about the OCAD report on covid, which warned that extremist organisations were trying to instrumentalize such protests. Before the protest on 23 January, the possible participation of extremist organisations was also warned. How many people have already been arrested following the demonstration on 23 January? How many cops got hurt in the riots? Are there any figures on working incompetence of agents as a result of the demonstration? Will you be bourgeois in the files in which Sunday's violence against federal police inspectors led to criminal proceedings? Were there extremist groups present during the demonstration on 23 January? If so, is there any idea whether they were involved in the riots afterwards? Has it been established whether the same individuals appear as in previous parades?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u44	Mr President, our colleague has developed the matter very much. Members of the security services have been facing an increase in the incidence of violence in the course of their work for a number of years. The European protest against health measures that took place last Sunday is a perfect illustration of what our police officers are going through during demonstrations when they end up degenerating. The images are impressive: wrecked buildings, fire attempt, damaged cars, etc. But even more attention is being paid to acts of aggression and violence against law enforcement personnel. If we are fervent supporters of freedom of expression and the right to demonstrate, we cannot allow people who are supposed to protect the population to suffer acts of violence and aggression through a fringe of the population. We were able to see with starvation that some police officers were forced to take refuge in the Mérod metro station, where rioters threw Nadar barriers at them. Such behaviour is unacceptable. Minister, how many police officers were injured? Are there any serious injuries? If so, do you intend to file a civil action? What conclusions do you draw from the figures? How do you intend, together with your colleague from the Justice Department, that I have just questioned the matter, to ensure that all violence against the police recorded during the demonstration is prosecuted by the judiciary, according to the circular of the College of Attorneys General with the objective of zero tolerance with regard to violence against the police services? How many police officers, whether from the federal police or police areas, have intervened? Have police officers worn bodycams to record their interventions? Are you going to put in place an awareness-raising campaign about and respect for the security services? This is one of the recommendations of the resolution we voted for two years ago. If not, what are the reasons?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u45	Mr President, Minister, it is now becoming a tradition to ask questions after a demonstration took place in Brussels on weekends. As far as we are concerned, citizens may express their views on a demonstration, but if this results in the third violence of a number of hotheads against the police, then we reject it and ask for a zero tolerance. Last Sunday, 230 rioters and violent bombers were apprehended. They were both Belgians and foreigners. The images that everyone has seen in the meantime are hallucinating. How many policemen were injured on Sunday? How many days' disability does that translate into? How many of those 230 arrested people have been released? In how many cases was the rapid duty applied? Do you agree with me that the perpetrators should be given alternative community service? Have you contacted the Minister of Justice about this? Can you explain the preparation of the integrated police for this demonstration? Was there any prior assessment of the violence? Do you think the police were sufficiently equipped and informed on Sunday? What alternatives do you see for improvement?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u46	Mr President, Minister, there are still certainties in life. In the meantime, we can almost take poison to the effect that, when it is argued against the corona measures, this demonstration is inextricably accompanied by violence. That also turned out to be the case last weekend. Everyone's seen the footage of the police officers taking cover in a subway station, throwing crazy fences at their heads. From the balance sheet published in the media, we can see that three police officers and twelve protesters have arrived at the hospital, that there have been many minor injuries and that eleven judicial and more than 200 administrative arrests have taken place. In the meantime, it's the umpteenth time we've seen such images. I think that the police, the Brusselsers and by extension the vast majority of the Belgian population are quite finished. That's why I have the following questions. The police were well prepared, but the result has not been sufficient to ward off that violence. What else can we do to prevent worse? What possibilities do you see for that? A task force is now being set up to continue identifications. Has that worked out yet? Finally, we all agree that these rioters should receive appropriate and rapid punishment. However, we hear that almost all those arrested are walking around at large. Will you, together with your colleague in the Justice Department, ensure that we act quickly and adequately in order not to create impunity?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u47	Minister, I am not going to paint the incredible picture that leads to today's questions any longer. We know the context and we all agree that freedom of expression and demonstration is essential. We have to guarantee it. But when we see that almost 230 people were arrested during this demonstration and when we see the violence against our police officers who are there to maintain peace, to guarantee the proper organisation of this demonstration and to protect all citizens, it is unacceptable! Several extreme right-wing groups were also identified among the demonstrators. This raises the question. My colleagues have said so. Unfortunately, these are situations that are periodically repeated in demonstrations. Madam Minister, first of all, could you tell me how many police officers have been injured in the performance of their duties and in their state of health today? What about the number of wounded among the demonstrators? Can you give me an overview of the human and material resources deployed in this demonstration, but also of the human and material damage that has been caused? Can you give me an account of the arrests – 230 people are spoken of – as a result of this unacceptable violence and of the measures that will be taken to identify and trace all the perpetrators of these acts? In the face of such events, which have a national but also European impact, could enhanced upstream controls prevent such an influx of breakers and thugs from other European countries from arriving? Is there intra-European cooperation in this area? Madam Minister, I say "yes" to protest, but "no" to destroy, ruin, violate. I saw some of the protesters shouting at the demonstration that we were in dictatorship. To those who are in any case responsible for the horrific acts that have been committed, I say first of all that allowing freedom of expression is the symbol of democracy. But to use the right to protest to ruin is to trample on that same democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u48	Madam Minister, I will not repeat what colleagues have already said. Of course we have the right to argue, but we will never support the hijacking of the manifestation with excessive blind violence by, among other things, French anarchist groups, the Black Bloc and so on, and we can never accept that. The figures are not less than the frustrations of the police unions. "We are the piss-off of society," they literally said. I come straight to my questions, as my colleagues have already explained the context. To what extent was a risk analysis available in advance in relation to the Sunday demonstration? What problems could one foresee after that analysis was made? Were there enough men available to cover the risks? Could or should the mayor have taken other measures regarding the demonstration and, more specifically, the presence of rioters? To what extent was known that extreme groups, such as the Black Bloc, would be present? Since some of them even came from abroad, is there any conscience as to how they went down to Brussels? Could it not have been possible to take more preventive action against the groups cited? How can law enforcement deal with this in the future? After all, we all know that this will not have been the last time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u49	Do colleagues wish to join the debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u50	Madam Secretary, I would like to begin by expressing my support and condolences to the agents who were on the scene on Sunday and again on the line of fire. The images of the violence against the police, the destruction and the aggression were really shocking and nauseating. You have already given various reactions to this in the media. I thought you did it in a very good way. You also mentioned the difficult balance between allowing people to exercise their right to argue and ensuring that the police can act against rioters. That is a very difficult balance. I have some questions on this, Madam Minister, but I did not submit them in advance, so if you do not have an answer to all the questions, I will submit them for a next meeting. What did the intelligence services know in advance about the organisers, Europeans United? The Observatory, an independent news site, has researched the organizers of the demonstration and De Morgen has also published it. Is it true that the organisers recruited internationally for the demonstration in Brussels and were you aware of this beforehand? According to The Observatory, there was behind the corona manifestation a well-oiled machine of antivaxers who recruited 50,000 demonstrators. In doing so, I wonder whether we can warn people who, for legitimate reasons, wish to express their concerns about or their opposition to the corona policy that there is a high risk of violence? Can there be dissuade communication by the government? Why is that, or why not? What was the risk assessment? There was a good chance this would turn into riots again. Can this organisation also be held liable for the violence? Is there any form of accountability possible if it is established that this organisation has been recruited in the middle of those who have already committed violence in previous demonstrations, and certainly violence against the police? I heard private militias would have walked with them. What do we know about that? To what extent is it legal for private militias, the so-called stewards, to be deployed? We've also seen people in military outfits. What do we know about them? Finally, I have a thought similar to that of Mr Demon. What will happen next time there will be an application for such a demonstration? Will permission be given again? Shouldn't we listen to our police officers, tell them the size is full? I would also like to hear your response to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u51	Mr President, Madam Minister, any form of violence, like the one we have seen, is obviously reprehensible. I think that colleagues have spoken widely about this. It was also reported that a large part of the demonstrators were peaceful. For my part, I would like to go back to the bottom, beyond what happened. Why did this demonstration take place? This must also be part of the answer you give us. The purpose of the event was to oppose the various repressive and discriminatory measures taken since the beginning of the pandemic, particularly in Belgium, based on a Pandemic law which deprives both Parliament and civil society of their active participation in a debate or vision on how to get out of this crisis. This Pandemic Act gives the key to action to the government, while knowing that the government has not been stingy about the mistakes and mismanagement of this crisis. However, we continue with this same logic and this is what was denounced by this demonstration. In order not to focus solely on the violence that took place and not to forget that the vast majority of demonstrators were there peacefully to denounce this kind of action, I would also like to hear from you on the substance of this demonstration. Minister, what do you say to the protesters who opposed the undemocratic management of the health crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u52	Mrs Chanson, I am only allowed one member per group to join the Rules of Procedure, but you may still be able to join the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u53	Madam Secretary, I would like to nuance a number of things. We are talking here about a peaceful demonstration of some 50,000 participants according to the police forces, or double that according to the organizers. The vast majority took part in the parade very peacefully. I was there personally and I've seen a lot of families with children. I have experienced a very quiet atmosphere there. I therefore find Mr Demon's statements, which also call into question the right to freedom of expression through demonstrations and demonstrations, extremely dangerous. We'd be on a slippery slope with that. I therefore welcome the fact that a number of Members still want to safeguard the right to stand and manifest. Secondly, it is now clear that the violence comes from a small group of French extreme left-wing anarchists. I've seen them myself. They were all dressed in black and masked, and they were clearly out to provoke riots. They call themselves "Black Blocs," and they brought banners. In the meantime, there are plenty of testimonies of who these people are. There are video footage of it and they are also proud of it, on different social media platforms. I would also like to stress that the rioters have also physically attacked their own stewards of the demonstration. If we have to convict anyone, it's those foreign extreme left anarchists. Hence my additional questions. Why didn't those individuals get premeditated? However, I found them clearly recognizable. The police should have acted more proactively here. Just deny those people access to our territory. They know very well why they are here, namely to provoke riots and attack policemen. Those attacks on our police aren't just attacks. The police themselves label them as attempted manslaughter. Will you do the same? Finally, it is generally known that these people unite under the domes of Black Block or Antifa. Why don't you put these associations on the list of terrorist organisations?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u54	I would like to stress once again that I am open to all opinions, but that a demonstration to attack and destroy police and bystanders is obviously unacceptable. That is why it is appropriate today to thank the policemen who always give the best of themselves to manage everything in the right direction. Some of you have done the same. In any case, it is clear that the police have made it possible to avoid worse. During and after the demonstration 228 persons were apprehended administratively and 11 judicially, including eight adults and three minors. Two of these three minors were now placed by the juvenile court and one adult was immediately subpoenaed for rebellion and forbidden armament. He's due to appear in court on February 22nd. I expect additional arrests and arrests based on the identifications that are still ongoing. I will come back to that later. For more details, including on the other demonstrations, I would like to refer you to the communication from the Brussels Office this morning, which reports, among other things, that 91 prosecutions have already started on the basis of information received. It is not because there are no immediate arrests, that there will be no sanctions. There is therefore no question of impunity. As for the questions about the number of wounded in the police force, I can tell you that there are a total of 35 injured. Fortunately, we shall say, and surprisingly, it is mainly about minor injuries. Of course, three policemen were transferred to the hospital, but they were all allowed to leave the hospital that same day. Also this time, in close consultation with them and according to the agreements to be made on the right moment and their relevance, I will set myself a bourgeois party for the staff of the federal police who were deployed at that time, alongside the local police. As I explained earlier in the context of the question on post-traumatic stress, it is important that the stress team of the federal police is made available to all those policemen who need assistance and follow-up after the demonstration. The police system was deployed after various meetings with the organizers and through a detailed risk analysis, both operationally and in terms of staff safety and well-being. All deployed police units were fully equipped with protective equipment. I would like to stress once again that the application for the demonstration is addressed to the mayor, who judges its desirability and the feasibility of having them carried out in safe conditions. The mayor also makes an assessment of the place where the demonstration is planned. It's not my place to make that assessment. There will, of course, be an evaluation of the riots that have taken place. An initial evaluation has already been carried out. This first assessment shows that the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles police, in consultation with the mayor, have taken all the legal preventive measures within its reach. The police, both local and federal, had sufficient resources to keep the demonstration on the best track possible. Physical damage records are under way. From a geographical point of view, they concentrate mainly on one street and over a hundred meters. As far as the participants are concerned, I must contradict you, Mr Depootere. Several extremist groups were present. Both extreme left-wing and extreme right-wing groups have hijacked the demonstration and have carried out cowardly attacks on the police and acts of heavy vandalism. The exact proportion of these groups or potential individuals is still being studied. It is clear that not all those rioters came from abroad, but that there were also Belgians. This is also apparent from the number of protesters and rioters arrested. Of those 228, there were a lot of Belgians. From information available before the demonstration, the police knew that risk groups from Belgium, but also from abroad, would participate. These groups move as discreetly and individually as possible, and also in the demonstration they try to remain unnoticed until the moment they start the riots. It is not obvious to get them out of such a large group in advance. That too is a delicate balance. After all, the police must ensure that it does not act too quickly because, at that time, the right to intervene may be undermined, but it must also act quickly enough to identify people with bad intentions. It should be stressed that the free movement of people we know in Europe plays a role in allowing people to move across borders, which makes it difficult to simply stop people. The protesters who were arrested came from France, Germany, Poland and the Netherlands. These are all countries from which one can travel freely to Belgium. Stopping them at the border is therefore not obvious. Where it was considered appropriate, pre-emptive searches were already carried out in depth in a number of protesters. For example, six persons were already held administratively before the start of the demonstration because they were in possession of prohibited and/or dangerous objects, such as pyrotechnic material. However, it is not surprising that the searches were not able to remove all the risk profiles from that mass. It is estimated that 50,000 people were present. However, it will examine ways of further strengthening controls in depth. That is one of the elements that is being taken into account. Secondly, it is important to know that several police officers were wearing bodycams during the demonstration. Other teams also recorded the facts. All recorded images are used in the diligent investigation. In order to identify and arrest as many of the perpetrators as possible, a task force has been set up within the Brussels Police Zone Capital of Ixelles. In addition, for the same reason, a call was made to provide all possible images to the police via social media. For this purpose, there is cooperation with the Brussels parquet. It was agreed to rapidly disseminate useful images of perpetrators of violence and vandalism for identification, prosecution and appropriate punishment. Of course, especially as a result of such a large-scale manifestation, we must learn lessons about possible even more preventive action. In concrete terms, for example, we are talking about administrative police measures where special detection methods cannot be used. With the police summit, we intend to examine the extent to which special administrative detection methods are needed in order to take even more preventive action. This can be done in the context of the 'New way of protesting', for which work started last year and on which an interim report will be issued shortly, in order to ensure that we take account of new forms of manifestation, which also occur in our neighbouring countries. We will continue to work with local authorities and the police to do everything in our power to prevent a very small minority from taking an abusive part in a peaceful demonstration in order to commit senseless violence against the police and to cause serious destruction. Mrs. Platteau, I can't give you all the information on Europeans United. Of course, that organization will be examined further. They knew there was an international appeal to argue. It has also organised demonstrations in other places in Europe. It is indeed being screened in advance which groups and violent individuals could present themselves. I cannot answer your question about the private militias. Whether violations were committed in this area will be part of the investigation, as will the question of whether the stewards, who are used to make a manifestation peaceful, do not provoke further violence. It is too early to comment on this at the present stage of the investigation. You also had a question about the organizer's liability for the violence. In principle, everyone is free to argue and organise demonstrations. When an organizer himself initiates violence, that is a different story than when rioters interfere in a peaceful demonstration to commit violence. The answer to the question of whether the organiser can be held responsible will depend on that. Mr Boukili, you have once again referred to the pandemic law, when the incidents during the demonstration have nothing to do with this law. Various messages were sent on the occasion of this event. Those who were invited to speak spoke about vaccination. This issue has nothing to do with the pandemic law. You have to know how to make a difference. I know that you do not appreciate the above-mentioned law, but that was not the object of the demonstration. Mr Depoostere, of course there was also cooperation with foreign countries to identify persons. It goes without saying that the police intelligence services also maintain contacts with foreign intelligence services and that this is followed up. However, we will see how we can do that even better. Additional agreements are currently being made within the framework of international police cooperation, so that information sharing and follow-up can be improved, but this will probably not prevent people from crossing the border, especially if no action has been taken on them. It is not, for example, because someone has been banned from the stadium in the context of hooliganism that that person is no longer allowed to argue. There are therefore different consequences depending on the administrative measures taken with regard to individuals.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u55	Madam Minister, let me be clear: I am absolutely in favour of free speech and the right to argue. Even though it will still be investigated, I am almost certain that the police and the city of Brussels have done everything in their power to ensure that the demonstration can proceed as safely as possible. You will see whether preventive measures can still be taken and whether lessons can be learned, but if a minority is increasingly committing vandalism and making sure 35 policemen are injured, then I keep wondering whether it is all worth it. We must think about this, because the situation is only escalating. It will also have had to do with calling for Brussels throughout Europe. You also clearly say that both the extreme left and the extreme right came from our country to screw things up. We need to look at what else we can do, and at the same time we need to ask ourselves whether we can do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u56	Madam Minister, thank you. As I have had the opportunity to tell the Minister of Justice, we must emphasize the extreme proactivity and action of the government to seek the perpetrators in order to condemn them. The circular, which had been amended for zero tolerance of violence against police officers, seems to be bearing fruit. That's a positive point. In the matter before us, I note that the government – you and the Minister of Justice – is in the process of manoeuvring to sanction what must be. However, I am concerned about the future, and generally. We know that many events are likely to take place in the light of a number of ongoing debates, including on the obligation to vaccinate. I am concerned about the more preventive measures that can be taken for the police. Zero risk probably does not exist, because if social networks are scrutinized and preventive arrangements are made, coded networks are used by these breakers. There is still too little taste for complementary measures that can be implemented to protect law enforcement services. I invite you to take up the resolution which has been voted on in Parliament, which proposes a whole series of avenues and which sets out the question of violence against the security services in general, and in particular against the police. With a very small trait of humour that is not against you, I note that the far left says they are extreme right-wing breakers, and the far right says they are extreme left-wing breakers. It's obviously always the story we'd rather tell: "It's not me, it's the others."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u57	For Open Vld, freedom of expression is a basic right and it must be possible to do so through demonstrations. Only 2 to 3 % of the protesters beat the place short and small, the rest argues peacefully. Well, we can no longer accept the 2 to 3 % protesters who behave crapulously. Madam Minister, you point out that the parties concerned received an invitation to subpoena on 22 February, but that has long been no longer the right to express their views. The current system of sanctions is not working properly and quickly enough. 230 people were arrested and they will be brought to justice in the next few months. If they are Poland or French, I wish you every success in getting them out of their country. That's not gonna happen. I repeat a proposal I made earlier. Imagine if we had locked the 230 people who were arrested on Sunday in an army barracks one night to make them think about their actions, then give them a kick in the hands at 6 a.m. to clean up everything under the supervision of the city of Brussels. They'd think about their actions. After twice such an approach, rioters would always be the same......................................................................................................................................................................................................... There is already a strong support for the people to tackle these problems in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u58	Mr Vandenput, I commend you on your proposal; it is a sound farmer's understanding and a lot of people are undoubtedly in favour of it, even if its implementation is not clear. However, Madam Minister, on the one hand I am pleased that foreign rioters will certainly be tried. I don't suppose it's easy to bring them here. On the other hand, I am concerned about your answer. It is worrying that the open border policy makes it very difficult to prevent foreign groups from coming here to riot. So there is always a chance that such groups will come here and have fun and come back to their homes. We need to think again about how to better address and avoid this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u59	Madmae the minister, thank you. First of all, I will allow myself to go back to the progress of this topical debate and to stress how inappropriate I find the attitude of the PTB, which is still populist. While we are here to take stock of the unacceptable behaviour that took place on Sunday, and not to talk about the substance of a demonstration, but about the form and behaviour of some thugs who have harmed men in their office, people who were there to demonstrate peacefully in Brussels, there is still a political message that is absolutely out of the question without any empathy or benevolence. Mr. Boukili, 35 police officers have been affected and are likely to be bruised for long weeks and you are going back to the measures of the pandemic law. It's not here and now the point. Holding words such as those you have had here today does not lead to serenity, I am sorry. This only stimulates extreme behaviour, whether left-wing or right-wing, no matter what. Extremism has no place in the protests. Madam Minister, you are right, there is a need to guarantee and defend freedom of expression, whether through demonstrations, the right to strike or any other form. We must guarantee it and ensure that this freedom is never hindered. But with the same firmness, we must defend the respect of our institutions, those who care for our institutions, including the law enforcement agencies, and the respect of our fellow citizens, some of whom have been the victims of the heinous behaviour of a gang of thugs. I don't care if the extreme is left or right. I reject and absolutely reject extremism. It must be fought with the democratic parties that are ready and determined to do so. That's my message.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u60	Madam Minister, you have given a lot of figures, but you have not really answered my questions about the extreme groups. I hear on the ground that some groups, including the Black Blocs, are very well organized. It wasn't the first time they went to a manifestation, they made it a sport, unfortunately. It's not nice, but it is. Apparently they even use buses to go to a manifestation together. They also use our public transport. I assume that, in the case of Brussels, they mainly come by train. Preventive measures are therefore possible there. The social media of these groups must also be better monitored. That's how they organize themselves. In my view, more prevention is possible. Let us be honest: for over a year and a half, you and your colleague of Justice have been arguing for zero tolerance over and over again when it comes to violence against the police. However, I have seen few initiatives so far. On the ground, almost nothing changes. Last Sunday, 240 rioters were arrested. Unfortunately, we have seen that after a few hours they were already at large again. Worse in the story is that during the last seven similar demonstrations a total of 750 people were temporarily arrested, but the vast majority of them are not even at risk of being punished and only 50 of them are facing a friendly settlement. The police unions are getting very frustrated about the power of the government, looking at you as well as your colleague Van Quickenborne; one would be for less. Meanwhile, a lot of cops got hurt again. I wonder how long the problem will drag on and when there will be an effective lick-on-piece policy. I hope from the bottom of my heart that there should be no deaths before effective action is taken. All respect, but a bourgeois-party stand and a debrief have long ceased to be sufficient to take concrete action. Apparent impunity goes on and on; it is even well maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u61	Mr President, every time I am in committee with Mr Rigot, I have the impression that he forgets his role as a member of Parliament as comptroller of the government, and he often focuses on my speeches. We can disagree... But if it pleases him and if he thinks that this is an effective strategy, let him continue that way! On the ground, it does not bear the fruits he hopes. Mr Rigot, you put the extreme right and the extreme left on an equal footing. You would have liked to hear your President, Mr Magnette, say exactly the opposite on Monday, that he does not put them on an equal footing. Free to have your own current within your party! Having said that, Minister Rigot, the theme of today's debate is "demonstration of January 23, 2022". I therefore have the right to refer to the reasons for this demonstration. That is part of the debate. We can't talk about a demonstration without talking about it. Minister, you talked about the vaccination obligation that people are opposed to. My party is also opposed to this because it divides society more and more. You see the climate in which we are today but free to continue in this direction! The event also called into question the CST and the overall management of the health crisis. That's why people showed up. And when I see the title of today's debate, namely the demonstration of 23 January 2022, my question is quite relevant. She's got her place. My question is not about the pandemic law as such. I am talking about the pandemic law because it allows you to take these different measures unilaterally within the government without any democratic participation. That was the object of the demonstration. This is the fact that you have carte blanche to take action against which the population has demonstrated. As Mr Vandenput said, the breakers represent only 2 to 3 per cent of the demonstrators. But here, 99% of the debate is about them. I just put the debate back where it should be. The question is why this demonstration took place, why these 97% non-casseurs demonstrated. Unfortunately, you are not responding because you have no self-criticism about your calamitous management of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u62	Madam Minister, I repeat that this manifestation consisted of people of different sizes, of all ages and colors, Flemings and Waals, most of whom were in the process of manifesting Mr Boukili very peacefully. As Mrs Goethals said, the greatest pain lies in the punishment. Mr Vandenput may well be suggesting that 250 arresters with a shovel and a can of garbage be sent to the streets, but I think more can happen now. If even the police unions say that these acts can be categorized as attempted manslaughter, then I think that a measure could be to effectively lock up, lock up and prosecute foreign arresters if they are among them, so that they get an appropriate punishment, because that leaves much to be desired now. However, these are more questions for Mr Vandenput's party colleague, Minister Van Quickenborne.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u63	Mr. President, Madam Minister, the issue of the recording and distribution of images of our police officers taken by a person during the interventions of our law enforcement agencies remains problematic, particularly because of a legal framework that would not be appropriate. In view of the technological tools increasingly accessible via the Internet and social networks, situations calling for clarification of the status of public figure for police officers are increasing. As is well known, the protection of the right to image, privacy and the status of the police officer, consent, data processing, the public interest, freedom of expression and sometimes of information, and the right to the image of the persons arrested, are confronted here. This therefore implies a case-by-case response. This also confirms the need for a more precise legal framework as it is known the risks that can be posed by the distribution of images to the integrity of the police and the maintenance of public order. Riots often begin as a result of images posted on social networks, usually accompanied by a call for hatred. Some European states have already legislated on this issue in order to better regulate police image-taking situations and the use and publication of these images. Some States have created legal sanctions against the use of images and personal or professional data of law enforcement personnel. For example, Spain took detailed measures in 2015 to ban the filming of police officers in public spaces. However, it should be noted that revisions to this legislation are currently being proposed to restrict this prohibition while ensuring the personal safety of police officers. This clearly demonstrates the complexity of the subject. In this regard, the Police Information Review Body (PIB) has recently issued an opinion. In his report, he referred in particular to the lack of clarity on the existing legal framework. Many questions arise and remain unanswered. The opinion clearly states that the case law and the existing legal framework suggest that it is not precluded that the police officer may also invoke his right to privacy. However, this case law does not provide any basis for establishing clearly to what extent and under what circumstances this might be the case. It is also known how sensitive it is to the dissemination of images, given the interpretations that can be made of them. This issue of dissemination, as well as the message accompanying the images, must undoubtedly be a priority for the decisions to be taken in this area. Minister, what are the provisions of the Police Function Act that regulate the use of images of police officers, persons arrested by the police and detainees? What training is provided in academies to deal with these situations? What instructions are given to police officers? What is the IPM that specifies these situations? In concrete terms, is it prohibited or permitted to film a policeman currently in intervention? If permitted, are there any circumstances in which the police can force the citizen to stop filming them? If so, which ones? What legal analysis of the opinion prepared by the COC was made by your services? What conclusions do you draw? Do you intend to take further initiatives in the near future to improve and, above all, clarify the legal framework? If so, can you elaborate on these measures? To date, what measures have been taken by the government? What are the ones still to be taken to further clarify and improve the working conditions of our police officers in such circumstances of public space management?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u64	Mr. Chairman, Ms. Taquin, the Police Function Act does not regulate the framework for the use of images illustrating police interventions. The fact that a citizen or journalist filming members of the police services during a police intervention constitutes a processing of personal data within the meaning of the General Data Protection Regulation and the Data Protection Act, which constitute the legal framework for such processing. The regulations applicable to the taking of police interventions are known and have already been set out and clarified on several occasions. In principle, photography is allowed, but only to the extent that it is limited to personal use or when it pursues legitimate journalistic purposes. Data protection rules are breached only when police officers or persons subject to police intervention can be identified on the images and the images are not used solely for private or journalistic purposes, for example in the case of webcasting or misuse in order to harm members of the police services. Thus, except in cases where the illegality of the use of photographs is manifest, the police forces cannot prohibit citizens from filming. This interpretation has already been disseminated to all police services through clear instructions. The updating of these instructions in the light of the amendment of the 2018 Act and the opinions of the COC is under way in a working group of representatives of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Federal Police and the local police. My services will disseminate these new instructions as widely as possible to the integrated police in order to raise awareness among staff members. I am not aware of the existence of a circular on this matter or of the intention at the federal level to draw up a circular on this subject. As far as training is concerned, this issue is addressed in the basic training of a member of the operational framework, whether through the casus dealt with within the framework of cluster 3 on ethics but also in a cross-cutting way through role-playing in the clusters on police intervention, communication or control of violence. This theme is also reflected in the ongoing training dedicated to social media. This training links social media and the code of ethics and also raises the issue of the right to image.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u65	Madam Minister, thank you for the clarifications you have provided. I wonder, but I will not hesitate to go back to the minister in charge on the non-compliance with the rules on broadcasting. When it comes to the Internet or abusive dissemination, what are the means of redress for our police officers? I understand that an analysis is under way regarding the COC's opinion, and that new instructions will be sent to the police. Thank you for the follow-up and for the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u66	Madam Minister, Press to Pause is an overarching project initiated by the prevention service of the city of Mechelen, but is now also being developed in the North Limburg municipalities of Oudsbergen, Bree, Bocholt and Kinrooi. It's a project that young people in our country are trying to reach by playing video games. The aim is to find more connection with young people between 12 and 25 years of age who are otherwise difficult to reach. By lowering the thresholds, one wants to better detect aid questions. It is hoped that young people in a safe environment will express their views about their relationship with the police, education, their mental well-being, but also about the vaccination campaign and corona, for example. Creating more openness and sounding board for young people to avoid polarisation and extremism is the goal. To lower the threshold even more, video games are played together with them. What attracted my attention was that police officers are effectively playing games with the young people online. Madam Secretary, could you give a little more explanation about the Press to Pause project? Where is this project now in operation? Do you have any idea how many young people will be reached and what results will be achieved? How do you think policemen can effectively reach young people by gaming with them?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u67	The Press to Pause project aims to be an online safe space where social actors, policemen and young people between 12 and 25 can get to know each other online through gaming, but also through conversations. In this way a dialogue can arise about certain frustrations, alienation, polarization and so on. For example, if signals of alienation are received, the actors concerned try to support and empower young people to deal with them. The project was set up taking into account the changing world of young people, which today, as we know, is to a large extent online. Press to Pause is a collaboration between the municipalities of Bree, Bocholt, Kinrooi, Oudsbergen and the police zone of Carma and the city of Mechelen. Consequently, the project is active in all these places. It is an online project, so in practice there are no geographical boundaries. To date, some 100 young people have actively participated in the project. They are members of the safe space on the Discord platform. More and more active communication is foreseen for the near future, hopefully increasing the number of young people reached. The partners concerned aim to reach some 200 to 300 young people. The pilot period of this project will run until 30 June of this year. The results and findings of the project will be presented on a study day organised by the city of Mechelen, the city of Genk and researchers of Hogeschool PXL, so it is a project that concerns research by practice. The necessary data will be collected and research will be carried out to adjust the project gradually, but also to ensure long-term sustainability of an online outreach effect. The first experiences with the project are already positive. Due to the good preparation of the police people, this has resulted in a relaxed atmosphere and thus relaxed conversations between young people and the police. That is very important, especially since we do not want young people to feel uncomfortable with the presence of police. Such projects or initiatives can contribute to this. The young people are also asking for additional gaming and safe-space sessions for the time being. Of course, I am following the project closely and certainly also its evaluation later this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u68	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for the additional explanation. I understood in particular that we will have an evaluation around the summer, which I will, of course, try to follow up with the necessary interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u69	Madam Secretary, the National Security Plan had quite a few feet in the earth. We have discussed this before in committee and in plenary. That plan was supposed to be ready on January 1st. This timing was not achieved, partly because it became known that tax fraud was not one of the seven phenomena that would receive particular attention from the police. You have already more or less corrected that in plenary, so I do not want to ask any further questions. You did say that the postponement of the National Security Plan would have no impact on the functioning of the police or on the means. The College of Attorneys-General formally disagrees with this and has sent a letter to the government, because they say the problem lies in 'the acute lack of staff, resources and budgets in the federal judicial police, which fights organised crime in our country'. My questions to you, Madam Secretary, will be the following at the end of January. What is the full content of writing the College of Attorney General to the government? Can you share that letter with this committee? What was the response of the government and of you as Minister of the Interior to the criticism of the College of Attorney General? Can you guarantee that not respecting the timing will have no impact on the functioning of the federal judicial police? What resources and staff are available per province? Since the timing of 1 January has not been met, what is the new timing? When will the plan come into effect? Will local security plans also be delayed as long as there is no National Security Plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u70	Mr Depoostere, as I said earlier, the timing of 1 January could not be met. That does not in any way prevent me from underlining that the police can carry out their duties. On the contrary, it will continue to implement them, in accordance with the priorities we have agreed on together. Discussions on the National Security Plan are continuing, not only within the federal government, but also in the National Security Council's lap, where in particular, together with the National Security Plan, the Integrated Security Framework Paper still needs to be discussed. It is to be expected that it will be discussed there in the next few weeks. Subsequently, the Inter-Ministerial Conference Security and Enforcement Policy will be convened by the Minister of Justice, where consultation with the Länder on both the Framework Paper and the National Security Plan will be finalized. Finally, on the National Security Plan, an opinion was requested from the Federal Police Council, after which both strategic documents could be proclaimed, together with the colleague of Justice. The main lines of the plan will then be communicated to Parliament by the two custody ministers responsible for the police. It will include the advice of the College of Attorneys General. Then I come to your targeted questions about the federal judicial police. The current capacity of the FGP per district can be requested with a written question. I can say in advance that it is not possible to do an extraction specifically with regard to the fight against tax fraud. After all, the FGP focuses its capabilities on detecting and combating all criminal security phenomena as well as providing specialised support to the local police. It does so in close synergy with the magistrate, which determines the policy of detection and prosecution. This obviously takes account of the evolution of crime and, in particular, the number of research files resulting from it. Local police zones will be able to further inspire themselves on that new National Security Plan. After all, the Permanent Commission of Local Police was closely involved in the drafting of both the Framework Paper and the Security Plan. Nothing prevents the police zones from adapting their local security plans to the Framework Note and the Security Plan. In any case, we are trying to complete the ongoing process as soon as possible within the planned procedures and consultations. I expect this within the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u71	Madam Minister, I will indeed put my question in writing on the resources and staff of the FGP. However, it is not for nothing that the College of Attorneys General sends a letter to the government. That is precisely because the College fears that some priorities will not be sufficiently addressed in the FGP. You know that there is a shift in organised crime towards tax fraud. The fear is that there would be too few staff and resources to deal with this adequately. The fact that police duties are not compromised, I hope, is something that every citizen in this country can hope for. The Internal Security Framework Paper is indeed a matter for the Justice Commission. When I see that it is all still to be discussed, with states and so on, and has to be submitted to different bodies, I fear that we will have to have some patience before we have this at Parliament's disposal. The timing of 1 January was put first, so it is very unfortunate that this should be postponed for a very long period.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u72	Madam Secretary, a fugitive Dutchman who had already taken staff from a youth institution hostage earlier that day was being pursued and it came to a firefight. The person concerned didn't survive that shooting. The mayor of the police area concerned expressed his admiration and support for his corps and stressed that this would leave a huge impression on the officers involved. They must process not only the fatal incident, but also the treatment by the Belgian justice system. It is reported that, contrary to what was agreed with the P Committee in the protocol, the agents would not have been allowed a cooling-off period and that they were a fortiori brought before the investigating judge for questioning category 4. The reason for the deprivation of liberty and the questioning of category 4 is even more striking. According to the parquet, this would have been done for practical reasons. Some say it thinks that the officers involved would flee and try to escape the investigation. That's too ridiculous for words. Why was the agreed protocol with the P Committee not respected? Will you take steps to ensure that this protocol will be respected by the public prosecutors in the future? Can you tell your colleague from the Justice Department what the exact reasons for the public prosecutor's questioning were for such a far-reaching questioning to take place so soon after the facts? Will you urge your colleague from the Justice Department to make a formal apology to the officers involved? What initiatives will you take to avoid such incidents in the future and put the mental well-being of our agents, which is so important and on which all parties are so concerned, first? What additional support will be given to the agents concerned so that they can process this additional traumatic experience?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u73	Mr Depoostere, I join you in your concern about the policemen in question. Such an event is particularly poignant and it is true that policemen who have experienced such a situation should also be well supervised. The evening of the incident itself, the stress team of the federal police, as foreseen, also went on the spot, as did the victim care services of the area concerned. For the time being, the colleagues involved are further supported by the stress team. In the meantime, the zone itself organised an internal debriefing. In the future, the inspectors concerned will continue to be supported as long as necessary and as long as they so wish. So there is indeed guidance for the mental well-being of those agents. In the interests of research, I cannot go into the specific content of the dossier. I'd like to clarify a few things. With regard to your questions concerning compliance with a protocol with the P Committee, I would point out that the P Committee falls within Parliament's remit. The principle of the separation of powers forbids me, and rightly so, I should like to stress this in order to monitor the P Committee and to make further statements in that context. The same applies to your questions with regard to the Minister of Justice: the judicial investigation serves to determine whether the violence and its sometimes dramatic consequences were justified, given the circumstances. Even more than the public prosecutors are independent judges who are not bound by directives of the College of Attorneys General. In a well-functioning democracy, the executive must not direct the judiciary. We must respect this and that is also what does not allow me to give you a detailed answer to all your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u74	It was certainly not my intention to provoke statements that would violate the separation of powers. But if there is a protocol, which provides for a cooling-off period for agents confronted with such facts, then I believe that the executive authority may stand up for the interests of its employees, in your case the interests of the police officers. If they end up in such situations and the protocol is not respected, then you should not check the P Committee. However, it is important to ask why certain protocols are not being complied with and are not being applied. In my view, it is a fair question, in which you can at least express your political concern with regard to staff. I am certainly looking forward to the fact that the police area and the mayor of the police area concerned have taken the necessary steps to support these agents. However, my question remains unanswered: why was a protocol issued not applied in this case? Perhaps I will also put my question to your fellow Minister Van Quickenborne.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u75	Minister, the 2016 parliamentary committee of inquiry on the attacks made several recommendations regarding airport security. In particular, it stressed the absence of a crisis plan in the event of a terrorist attack. It recommended that airport and security inspectors fall within the competence of the public authorities unrelated to the private operator of the airport. It also noted that communication between rescue services had been "a global failure". Nearly six years after this terrorist attack, what lessons have been learned from this commission? Have you implemented the recommendations of the Commission Attentats?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u76	Following the attacks at Zaventem Airport on 22 March, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry issued a number of recommendations to improve airport and airport safety. The main finding was that the different security partners were working too closely and that there was insufficient information sharing. On the initiative of the DirCo of the federal police Halle-Vilvoorde, the Flemish-Brabant started the preparation of a security plan BRUNAT Zaventem Airport, a comprehensive crime security plan, drawn by the prosecutor of the King's Halle-Vilvoorde together with the DirCo Halle-Vilvoorde and many partners. The layout of this plan is followed by the Flemish-Brabant provincial security consultation. It was recently finalised and was approved by the partners on 24 January 2022 after prior explanation to the Attorney General. The official presentation of the plan was postponed to March of this year. For both the province of Flemish Brabant and Brussels Airport there are special emergency and intervention plans Terrorism, which are also regularly updated. For example, the layout for Flemish Brabant started in June 2016 and went for approval to the Minister of the Interior on 31 January 2017. Following the new KB on terrorism of May 2020, the plan was amended in the period December 2020 to June 2021 and adopted by the Minister of the Interior on 14 October 2021. It was then published in the Belgian Official Journal. For the Brussels Airport Zaventem plan, the layout started in January 2017. It was delivered to the Minister for approval in March 2017. It was updated in May 2019 and September 2021. In November 2021, on communication between emergency services, it was agreed to work according to the multidisciplinary ministerial briefing on the use of ASTRID multidisciplinary discussion groups. This is about to be placed on the federal security portal ICMS. With regard to the recommendation that airport and security inspectors should be dependent on the authorities without any connection to the private manager of the airport, I can tell you that the DAB Airport has now been set up. Its inspectors are directly dependent on the federal police and therefore have no connection with LAC. With the creation of the DAB, LAC Security's tasks were partially taken over, meaning that the problem no longer exists. LAC Security is still in charge of badge control and security screening before the runway side entrance. With regard to your question about communication between rescue services, I can tell you that this has been significantly improved, in particular by the multidisciplinary communication groups which are now programmed on ASTRID radios. Several representatives of the disciplines also attended the Dir PC-Ops training. Only Dir PC-Ops patent holders can now take the lead in field operations as Dir PC-Ops. In Hal-Vilvorde, two officers from the Coordination and Support Directorate obtained their certificates, as well as four local police officers, in addition to many other police officers. There are, therefore, enough trained police officers to assume this role. In addition, an emergency planning exercise is organised every two years at the airport in addition to the various annual table-top terro exercises organised on a regular basis by LPA BruNat, in which all partners participate. The recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry were also one of the elements that led to the establishment of a comprehensive and integrated airport security plan. The fight against radicalism, extremism and terrorism is also prominent. In addition, the operation of LTF (local task force) within the district has grown rapidly since 2016. Each month, an operational LTF is organised where the subject of potentially radicalised entities, working for example at the airport, is discussed. As regards the follow-up of potentially radicalised employees at the airport, the DirCo and the terro reference magistrate have drawn up a directive so that these entities are also monitored within the TFLs of the district in which they reside. In summary, the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry have been and continue to be taken into account by the rescue and security services concerned as well as by the various competent authorities at the airport site.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u77	Thank you, Madam Minister. I listened carefully. You know that there are still recommendations to be implemented. It's not over. You tell us that the problem no longer exists with airport inspectors, but that is not what we have on the ground, otherwise I would not ask the question. Many Sûreté workers experience great difficulties with the private operator. The authority of the DAB is not as clear as you say. I will come back to get some more precise answers. I hope that by then you will have investigated how this is going in practice, because your answer does not correspond to what is being relayed from the field. The independence of airport agents is indeed a question. I hope that I will hear answers that are more in line with experience on the ground or that you will come and present us with measures to solve this problem. For now, I can assure you that it exists. When you learn about it in the field, you'll realize it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u78	Thank you for your answers, Madam Secretary. I think Mr Boukili has put forward a number of points which you know, but which have not yet been answered. I will analyse your answers further, and then I will be able to submit questions again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u79	Madam Secretary, at the beginning of January, in the Maritime magazine Flows read that the police vessel the SPN-14 would be taken out of service. However, it is an important vessel, which mainly patrols the Westerschelde and the port of Antwerp. After all, the North Sea is also a real economic growth pole. The boat was put into service in 2008, so relatively recently. Within what political framework is this? Are there any plans to purchase a new vessel? I have submitted a similar question to Mr Van Peteghem because a customs vessel is also withdrawn from circulation. What exactly is the planning in that respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u80	Mr Loones, since 2008, the SPN-14 police patrol vessel has been hired by the federal police of the Flemish Region, of the DAB Fleet, as part of a long-term lease. The vessel was deployed twelve hours a day until 31 December last year in the shipping area of the shipping police in Antwerp. In addition to that vessel, the shipping police have a fully-fledged patrol vessel, the SPN-19, at their disposal in Antwerp. That vessel will continue to operate. From this spring onwards, in place of the SPN-14, a second patrol vessel, the SPN-21, will be at the disposal of the shipping police in Antwerp. For example, the service will be improved because in the sailing area in Antwerp two fully-fledged patrol vessels will be available 24 hours per seven days, the SPN-19 and the SPN-21, instead of a full-time and a half-time police vessel. Following the extension of the contract with the Flemish Region, in 2015 regarding the rental of seagoing vessels, it was chosen to evolve in the inland waterways, including the Scheldt and the port of Antwerp, into a number of self-employed vessels. This allows a flexible operational deployment across the entire navigation area of the shipping police. It was contractually stipulated that the rental of the vessel SPN-14 would be terminated by the end of 2021 at the latest. In order to anticipate the end of the lease and the modernisation of the fleet, the Federal Police have provided a market for the purchase of four new inland waterway vessels by the end of 2020. The first will therefore be launched in the course of 2022. The latter will be delivered in the course of 2023. The total investment amounts to EUR 5.48 million, excluding VAT. The shipping police today has one sea-going patrol vessel SPN-1, rented from the DAB Fleet, which is under construction from 2021, four patrol vessels for inland waterways, one sea-Rhin, five RHIB's on trailer, two small RHIB's and two workboats from the Technical Support Team. In the near future, the fleet of the Maritime Police will evolve from four to six patrol vessels for deployment on inland waterways by the new vessels.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u81	Thank you for the wonderful answer. It is good to see that sufficient attention is paid to it. In particular, I wish you could throw a bottle of champagne against one of the new ships. This will undoubtedly be a good time, provided that the bottle breaks down at the first time. This is important for a sustained flow.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u82	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Cogolati's 55024203C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u83	Madam Minister, you say that a public contract on a quantitative evaluation of ten police areas already merged was launched. You inherited this from your predecessor, Mr De Crem, who, after our question on 12 February 2020, was willing to order a new study with more focused research questions for the organisation of the police zones in Brussels. The public procurement procedure had already started before your arrival, in June 2020. The study would last eleven months. You mentioned during the discussion of the policy paper that all partners are generally satisfied with the results of this merger movement. Madam Secretary, what budget was allocated to the study? Although the study should already be completed, you stated earlier that you would include it in a larger exercise of the new funding model of the police. How's the study coming? Are you prepared to allow MPs to examine this study in good time, to facilitate the discussion on a new funding model for the police?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u84	Mrs Goethals, first of all I would like to refer to the hearing in the Chamber of 24 April 2019 on the results of scientific research on the scale of police zones. At this meeting, the results for the police areas of the Brussels-Capital Region were presented. Contacts showed that Brussels local authorities had little support for a merger plan. No mayor of the nineteen municipalities was in favour of a merger of the six police zones. In this legislature, it has been decided not to clear the long-standing issue of the optimal scale of areas via a multidisciplinary committee. In view of this approach, a study was initiated with the scoop evaluating the ten already occurring fusion movements. This study was awarded to the consortium Idea Consult, Ghent University and Université de Liège for a total cost of 88,481.25 euros including VAT. The kick-off took place in November 2021. The duration shall be six months. The results will hopefully be expected in the first semester of this year. The results will serve to feed the work of the multidisciplinary committee. As I have already said in previous parliamentary speeches, the situation in Brussels is taken into account in the broader reflection exercise conducted in the multidisciplinary committee whose work is ongoing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u85	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u86	Madam Minister, the policy statement and policy paper set out a vision on telework for the police to be developed by the end of 2020 and to discuss it with the syndicated partners in 2021. Meanwhile, we're already in 2022. With regard to the provision of teleworking resources, the question arises as to whether all this is really arranged as it should be. For example, we heard other statements from the field, where members of the SSGPI, for example, would telework with unprotected connections from home and with their own laptops, while a main computer still has to run at work in order to have them logged in. Such unsafe compounds endanger the safety of the whole system. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. Do you really think that all the necessary efforts have been made? Why do we see in the budgets a reduction in the resources of the SSGPI, when we have heard that the information technology at its disposal is not at all up-to-date? You stated last November that the framework text on local and time-independent work was being discussed with the syndicated partners. Can you give us the pillars on which this vision is based? What challenges do you see before the negotiations at the next High Consultative Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u87	Mr President, the SSGPI's budgetary resources were not reduced. In previous years, significant increases were entered in the SSGPI's appropriations, subject to compensation from the appropriations of other organisational departments of Section 17 of the Federal Police and the integrated operation. In 2022, the SSGPI appropriations were subscribed in accordance with the historical structural standard. The necessary additional appropriations will be replaced by the additional appropriations of EUR 70 million registered for the police. This should not affect the other organisational departments of Section 17. The framework text on site- and time-independent work has not yet been definitively adopted. The main pillar on which the proposed framework text is based is a flexible approach to work. The framework text brings forward a culture of trust aimed at achieving performance and results. The framework paper focuses on quality work, rather than when or where someone would do their job. This also puts forward the pillar of good communication and coordination between staff, management and service. In addition, the proposed framework paper also highlights the importance of a good balance between working at the office or at a distance, with regard to the welfare of the employee and the cohesion of the service. On the basis of these principles, it is proposed in the framework text to consider flex work up to a maximum of three fifths of the employee's working regime. In November 2021, the vision was discussed with the syndicated partners. During the consultations, there were no major blockades. The syndicated partners do require a few minor adjustments. A number of opinions on GDPR legislation are also requested. It is important to stress that the vision includes the general principles and not the homework bonus. The measures adopted by the Consultation Committee were translated into the police context by the Integrated Police Task Force. The directives applicable to police schools are also included in these directives. Distance learning is recommended. The police schools must organise themselves according to the measures adopted by the federal and regional authorities. In concrete terms, this means applying the rules applicable to regular education. Specifically for practice exercises, the mouth mask requirement applies. Each police school is responsible for including the measures in the school regulations and, of course, for following their subsequent delivery. The schools can also take additional measures on their own initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u88	I welcome the fact that there is no reduction in appropriations, but an increase. With the covid crisis, we have seen enough that digitisation is important in all areas where possible. We must continue to bet 100 % on that security. Not so long ago there were hackers in the systems of the Chamber. Maintaining digitalisation is one hundred percent reliable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u89	Madam Minister, you say distance learning is recommended for police schools, but my question was: what if a school doesn't want to do this or continues to refuse? It cannot be the intention that the police themselves should be lax in dealing with the corona measures. If possible, distance learning should be switched to distance learning. For practical lessons it is of course a different matter, but this was classroom lessons. Apparently, there were even corona outbreaks in some classes of a certain police school before Christmas. It would have been better to have the lessons done digitally, especially since there is a framework, other police schools have done so. One police school is still reluctant to do so, as it turns out. I hope that this will be dealt with, of course in conjunction with the union.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u90	Minister, when a child is missing, the police and the prosecutor's office have a legal obligation to inform Child Focus, which can help with research, in particular through its Child Alert tool. It was recently reported in the press that Child Focus was not informed by the police during the disappearance of little Dean. For Stephan Smets, spokesman for this association, it is the misunderstanding: he wonders "why they were put on the touch". Minister, can you track the course of events? Why has Child Focus not been informed of this disappearance?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u91	Mr Boukili, I wish to reiterate my condolences to Dean's family. I wish him much courage in this terribly difficult time. During a judicial investigation, the decision to inform Child Focus in the case of a disappearance falls within the competence of the judiciary. I must therefore refer you to the answer of the Minister of Justice, to whom you asked the same question. I understand that the College of Prosecutors circular on the subject is being updated. It also seems to me to be an opportunity to update the protocol between Justice and Child Focus, as suggested by the latter. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate and thank any speaker who has contributed to the elucidation of these facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u92	Minister, thank you for your answers. I, in turn, extend my condolences to Dean's family. I'll question the Minister of Justice. I was asking you why the police did not report the disappearance because they are bound by the same obligation. I will probably have clearer answers from the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u93	Mr Cogolati has been excused.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u94	Mrs Dierick, on 21 January, the nuclear cabinet took note of the note from the FANC. This note dates from 17 January and contains a list and analysis of the necessary activations for activation of the so-called plan B. Together with that note from the FANC, the note from the FPS Economy DG Energy was also notified to the nuclear cabinet. If the government were to consider activating plan B, a seven-pronged trajectory was developed by the FANC on the one hand and the FPS Economy on the other, DG Energy on the other. The FANC has competence in three tasks, namely the clarification of the regulatory framework, the LTO dossier and, in part, the environmental impact assessment. For the rest, I refer to the Minister responsible for Energy. In order to prepare a possible decision on plan A or plan B on 18 March, the nuclear cabinet asked the FANC to prepare the following three elements prior to 18 March. A first element concerns the preparation of any amendments to the Royal Decree of 30 November 2011 laying down the safety rules for nuclear installations. I would like to stress that the necessary safety regulations will certainly not be affected, but that they may be opportunities that are also identified by the operator. There must be no confusion about this. Secondly, discussions should be initiated with the operator on the impact of any changes to the safety requirements for nuclear installations, in particular on the work required as a result. This is also related to timing. Once again, I would like to stress that the safety regulations themselves are not affected. Thirdly, it calls for the necessary administrative preparations for the possible launch of an environmental impact assessment, in consultation with the Energy DG of the FPS Economy. In the meantime, I have instructed the FANC to start the necessary preparations, in accordance with the decision of the nuclear cabinet to activate the plan B should that decision be taken on 18 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u95	Madam Secretary, thank you for your very good answer. We are pleased that a plan B is being worked out in addition to Plan A. We have, of course, confidence in the report issued by the FANC, the agency ultimately has the most expertise. I am also pleased that you repeat that safety cannot be played with. We are confident that this will not happen either. The FANC has indeed called for a number of steps to be taken pending the decision of 18 March. I am reassured to know that the nuclear cabinet has already decided that these three routes can be started in preparation for 18 March. We are looking forward to the result. We hope that it will be clear soon and that the decision can be taken on 18 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u96	Mr. Ducrame is absent. Consequently, its attached questions Nos 55024277C and 55024278C are not applicable. Mr Depootere made his speech (No. 55000239I) for a next meeting. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55024291C and 55024460C by Mr Delizée were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u97	Mr President, Minister, as from 2 February, truckers will have to stop at or near the border to enter the country code manually in the tachograph. This is the result of the EU mobility package, a second set of measures coming into force in February. From then on, the tachograph will also be used within the European Union to check when a driver is travelling abroad. Every day thousands of trucks pass the Belgian border. The new measure could therefore create the necessary chaos, congestion and unsafe traffic conditions. Hence my questions. What measures have you taken to manage this mandatory border stop? Is the federal police prepared for the consequences of this new measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u98	Mr President, Mr Raskin, as from 2 February, truck drivers will have to enter the country code at every border crossing. The European Commission requires the driver to stop for this manual registration at the nearest stop point at or beyond the border. If the crossing of the border of a Member State takes place on a ferry or on a train, the driver shall indicate the country symbol at the port or station of arrival. It is also important that, since 20 August 2020, drivers of vehicles with an analogue tachograph should register the symbol of the countries where the working period of the day started and ended respectively, as was already the case for vehicles with a digital tachograph. The measure for analogue tachographs was therefore already mandatory from August 2020, but this has never caused any problems. The potential problems will not be limited to the motorway, but may also arise at the regular border crossings. This measure is likely to create congestion and traffic congestion, both on the Belgian side and on the side of our neighbouring countries. In the first few days, the federal road police, in close cooperation with road manager Perex and the Flemish Traffic Centre, will monitor the border crossings in order to intervene and ensure road safety. Increased supervision and, if necessary, the placing of signs by the road manager and the upcoming traffic indicating traffic congestion will be carried out in close consultation. With a first assessment we suspect that the parkings in the vicinity of the borders will be able to handle these short-term stops. The morning peak from 6 a.m. is a point of interest because then there may be a larger occupancy of truckers who stay overnight. Based on truck numbers, therefore, we expect no major problems, but much will depend on how the drivers will behave, how they will comply with the new rules and how long they will effectively stay in those parking spaces.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u99	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I am pleased that you are aware of the possible problem, in particular at the regular border crossings, where the police will monitor them more closely during the first few days and may also have them marked. You say most parkings will be able to handle those stops. However, from the sector other signals are reaching me, but the truth must be somewhere in the middle. In any case, it is a good thing that you are aware of the problem, that the police are prepared and that we ensure that the introduction of this measure can go as smoothly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u100	Mr Rigot, I confirm that I am aware that the implementation of the back-end of the new wage engine poses problems for the integrated police and is not limited to the local police areas. They have been involved in this case through the CPPL, although the workload has been concentrated mainly on SSGPI. Indeed, the implementation that took place in October mainly concerns the part dealing with wage calculations. In addition to the police areas, the various accounting software providers were informed more than a year ago of new documents, and several questions were raised and answered by SSGPI. This allowed suppliers to prepare for some changes more than a year ago. The SSGPI has tried to minimize the impact for police areas and has, among other things, generated output files in already known layouts. The supplier supporting SSGPI in this area recently announced that it hopes to stabilize the salary engine by the end of the first quarter, which would solve most of the problems currently known. However, SSGPI is in this case dependent on the supplier. SSGPI and I regret the difficulties that have arisen as a result of the implementation of new back-ends, especially if they result in police personnel not being paid properly. However, I can inform you that the vast majority of police personnel are paid properly. For cases where major errors are still identified, either the supplier will intervene manually or the SSGPI will contact the police areas for action. For calculations where errors remain, the supplier was asked to resolve them as quickly as possible and to ensure that incorrect calculations from previous months were also corrected. Like SSGPI, I hope the supplier will keep its promise to stabilize the salary engine by the end of the quarter and solve these problems. This will allow SSGPI to re-focus on the processing of individual files, carry out additional checks and provide feedback to police areas on cases where errors have been identified in recent months.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u101	Minister, I'm very pleased to see that you took the case with you. As you say, this is the nerve of war, that is, the wages of many police officers. These mistakes are obviously damaging. I fully understand that it is a supplier, a third party. I do rely on you to be vigilant and to ensure that this provider complies with his obligations to stabilize the system by the end of the quarter, which is still a long time. For the future, I can only invite you to an intense and strengthened communication and consultation with the police areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic676x.u102	Debates of the European Parliament 55024341C) by Mr Loones and Mr Lohn-Bendit, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 55024346C Mr Van Hees were postponed. Mr Vandenput is no longer here, his question No. 55024369C is without object. Debates of the European Parliament 55024385C) by Mrs Taquin and others: Mr Boukili's 55024407C were postponed. Mr De Smet is not present, his question No. 55024439C is without object. Mrs Van Peel is not present, her question No. 55024451C is without object. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Boukili's 55024471C was postponed. Mrs Verhaert is not present, her question No. 55024484C is without object. Mr D'Amico is not present, his question No. 55024500C is out of artifact.
