ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u1	In fact, Mrs Dillen, we discussed the overpopulation in prisons in committee last week, as we did just before Christmas. Your question, however, is specifically about Antwerp. Two strike announcements were submitted on 29 October and 10 December respectively. Following the consultations that ensued, a protocol of agreement between the government and the trade unions was concluded providing the necessary guarantees for both strikes. The protocol on the first strike notice concluded an agreement on staff, overcrowding and internal organisation and procedures. The protocol annexed to the second declaration concluded an agreement on the organisation of activities and in particular on visits, canteen, fitness and sports, library, employment, services of honour, discussions with staff of the judicial welfare department (PSD, psychosocial service), report to the director, the work organisation of the kitchen team and the services offered by the employees of the Flemish Community. On 29 November, I promised to bring the population in Antwerp back from the 740 inmates who stayed there, to the 680 target. Of course, it remains a daily challenge to maintain that target. As far as your second question is concerned, each prison director autonomously decides, on the basis of the staff present, what activities for detainees can take place on that day. This is viewed from day to day in consultation with the middle management. In addition, additional arrangements were laid down in the second protocol for the organisation of activities in the Antwerp prison. The same protocol established an evaluation exercise for the government and trade unions on 14 January. In the meantime, this evaluation took place on Monday 17 January. In consultation with the local trade unions, it was decided to resume most of the activities for prisoners. As from 17 January, at the start of each shift, on the basis of the staff present, the activities to be organized will be examined. As far as your third question is concerned, many transfers of prisoners from the Antwerp prison to other prisons were planned between the end of December 2021 and 14 January this year, which was intended to provide a short-term response to the local overpopulation. The administration has developed a distribution plan whereby extra beds are temporarily placed in certain prisons. In this way, all prisoners must have a bed available to them. Since December, the situation in Antwerp has improved considerably. The population has evolved from 760 to 681, the number of ground sleepers from 100 to 45. In the period from 1 November 2021 to 14 January 2022, a total of 253 detainees were transferred to another institution. The problem of overpopulation not only affects the prison of Antwerp. Medium-term policy initiatives, such as the further implementation of the Master Plan, will have a positive impact on capacity management and overpopulation. As regards the recruitment of staff, there is currently a pilot project in the province of Antwerp, whereby selection is accelerated on the basis of an interview. Those selection calls will start next week. In addition, every effort is made to fill in the open spaces of the staff frameworks of the facilities as soon as possible. At present, we are faced with a shortage of labour at national level, which makes the filling of these vacant places not clear. In addition, initiatives were taken, in cooperation with my colleague responsible for civil servants, to simplify and speed up the recruitment process. That is necessary, because we are looking for about 1,200 penitentiary officers for the new prisons and detention homes in the coming months. On 23 December 2021, the Council of Ministers approved two draft royal decrees. These drafts were submitted to the trade unions on 5 January 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u2	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer, specifically as regards the situation in Antwerp. You say that the target must be 680, which is still 200 places more than the capacity of 439. You rightly say that it is a daily challenge to maintain this. Is there a success in Antwerp? You say a number of transfers are planned. Within what time limit can I expect it? The evaluation of whether or not activities are being carried out for the detainees was carried out yesterday, apparently with a positive result. Can I assume that this evaluation will be carried out on a permanent basis?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u3	Mrs Dillen, I think this is all for a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to your first question, decisions on quarantine are taken by the Regional Directorate of DG PPE and the Central Health Care Service of prisons, in consultation with the local management and medical service of the prison concerned. Such consultation implies that neither the decision to quarantine a prison - in whole or in part - nor the decision to lift that quarantine are unilateral decisions. Decisions are based on changes in the health situation and the maintenance of an acceptable living environment for prisoners. In practice, in Marche prison, it was decided at the beginning of December to place certain sections in confinement, but not the entire prison. Overall containment was not justified in relation to the rate of contamination and in relation to the distribution of contaminated inmates in the various wings. The operation in compartments or bubbles was effective, effective and sufficient. Thus, there were wing-differentiated modalities so as not to put too much pressure where this was not necessary. As far as your second question is concerned, as I said, decision-making was not unilateral. On your third question, the various meetings between the regional management and local management, the prison doctor and the health care department took place by videoconference. The decision is made on the basis of the objectivable data. For Marche, all detainees were tested in early December after the first cases were discovered. With regard to your fourth question, the containment measures that had been decided for certain sections have been lifted since the end of December. I was further confirmed last Monday that the health situation was under control at Marche-en-Famenne prison and that there is no longer any structural containment measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u5	Mr Minister, I thank you for your answer, although it is true that it contrasts completely with the returns that I have received from the ground. In any case, this lifting of confinement, which had been decided for this prison alone, is of course a good thing to enable detainees to regain normal living conditions, the possibility of seeing their relatives, lawyers, etc., as well as to ensure continuity of care. I'll have another question about that. When special health measures are to be taken in a specific prison, I think it is very important that this be done in consultation with the doctors and officials assigned to that prison. I hear that this has been done in this case, but we will remain vigilant for possible future times.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u6	Madam President, dear colleague, as mentioned in the government agreement and in my policy note, the government makes the fight against violence, whether sexual, domestic or conjugal, a priority. The Istanbul Convention of the Council of Europe signed by Belgium in 2011 and ratified in 2016 is the guiding principle. Since 2001, Belgium has implemented its gender-based violence policy through a national action plan in collaboration with the Communities and the Regions. Awareness-raising, education, prevention, victim protection, the reception of victims and perpetrators and the implementation of an effective criminal justice policy are still the main objectives of the National Action Plan to Combat Gender Violence 2021-2025. Many projects and measures are under way to achieve the objectives. The introduction of specialized courts throughout Belgium does not seem to us to be effective or feasible. The creation of separate chambers has a significant impact on the judicial and procedural structure. The Belgian judicial landscape with many small-scale courts does not lend itself to this. Smaller courts simply don't have enough cases for that. It therefore seems difficult to establish a chamber within each court of first instance that would have powers in relation to gender-based violence regardless of the subject matter in which it intervenes, especially since the proceedings may differ from one subject to another. In principle, at present, article 88, paragraph 2, of the Judicial Code requires the President of the Court to determine the number of chambers and their respective powers. Although there is no specialized chamber as such in all the public prosecutor's offices, there is a certain specialisation of judges and practices. Some specialized chambers have been set up by a legislative initiative mainly in the major districts. Specialized cases, including all cases related to sexual violence, are currently being dealt with by the same chamber or chambers within the Public Prosecutor's Office. Thus, in practice, the district courts and the large courts have already committed themselves to this centralization in the specialized subjects and have already foreseen it. In addition, compulsory training on sexual and domestic violence against judges was introduced by the Act of 31 July 2020. Since its launch in the spring, 1,772 magistrates have already participated in the basic training. Its content could be expanded to include other forms of violence. As for the family courts, they had to deal with such issues of gender-based violence, particularly with regard to domestic violence. In these cases, violence is above all an aggravating factor in some family disputes. The evaluation of the family court provided for in the law of 13 July 2021 should give us a better idea of the effectiveness of the procedure before the family court and of the improvements that can be made, but a priori a specialization is not envisaged. According to the information gathered, there is a general consensus in Spain on the success of the comprehensive law on violence against women and the establishment of specialized courts and specialized sections in the Public Prosecutor's Office. On 28 December 2004, the Organic Law on Measures of Comprehensive Protection with regard to Gender Violence was adopted and, on 29 June 2005, in accordance with the provisions of the Organic Law indicated, the specialized investigating judges for violence against women and the specialized sections in the provincial courts were established, some exclusively and others not. The roll-out of the comprehensive law against gender violence, subsequent legislative improvements and the 2017 State Pact made it possible to deploy, according to our information, a wide network of police, judicial and social services aimed at protecting women. The special establishment of specialized courts and specialized sections in the Public Prosecutor's Office is not a single action in the fight against violence against women. They are part of a range of actions on several fronts. The aim is therefore to achieve a multidisciplinary approach to women victims of violence. There is a social and political awareness of the problem. For your information, the General Council of the Spanish Judiciary has just published a report on the occasion of the fifteenth anniversary of the Organic Law, which I can communicate to you the internet link if you wish. The text is only available in Spanish. I recognize that these courts certainly have a positive impact in Spain. However, as explained above, the introduction of specialized chambers for all jurisdictions in Belgium does not appear to be effective or feasible. Discussions have already taken place during the preparation of the action plan with my colleague and this specialisation was not desired. We are currently focusing on training judges, working with all professionals, supporting victims, developing centres for the care of victims of sexual violence and the Family Justice Centers, improving the collection of evidence and, last but not least, the draft of the new Sexual Penal Code. That is our approach, dear colleague! The government is investing heavily in the fight against sexual and domestic violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answer as always detailed. I understand that combating violence against women is a priority for the government. I have also welcomed on several occasions the initiatives taken in this area. But the problem is that still today, despite the measures put in place, too many victims do not file complaints because they do not have sufficient confidence in the police and, in particular, in the justice system that they consider too slow when it comes to condemning their executioner and protecting the victims before it is too late. I understand that you consider that my proposal for the establishment of specialised courts or chambers, as is the case in Spain, is neither effective nor feasible and that you prefer other measures. This is regrettable because this measure could have complemented the arsenal of measures that you highlight. These specialized chambers could be set up at the initiative of the Presidents of the Courts of First Instance. Today, there is inequality of treatment for victims, as it varies according to the district or jurisdiction in which they are located. That's not a way to do it! The problem could also be addressed through legislation. Why not take this opportunity to amend the law? You have also stated that the Family Court can make decisions on the issue of violence against women. I wonder when we will have the right to hope for the results of the assessment that has been requested. For my part, I believe that this assessment should also cover the application of this important measure, namely the temporary ban on residence, since this measure can only be effective if it is passed quickly by the judge, which is not the case at present. It is noted that victims' complaints are not dealt with in the same way, depending on the district, depending on the workload of the different judges. I therefore invite you to dig the track I have proposed and to create a specialized prosecutor's office. This has been done for road safety. I don't see why we can't do this for violence against women.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u8	Colleagues, thank you for your questions. With regard to your first question, the Committee on the Rights of the Child, in its last concluding observations dated 2019, invited Belgium to submit its seventh periodic report on 14 January 2024. Therefore, there was no need to publish a report in 2021, with the 5-year period starting from publication in 2019. As for the content of this next report, it will focus on the measures taken and the obstacles encountered in the implementation of the concluding observations issued in 2019 and will cover the period from 2019 to 2023. The period of covid will therefore be well covered. Your second question concerns coordination to follow up on comments. As you point out in your remarks, Belgium has a National Commission for the Rights of the Child. The Commission shall review and monitor the necessary enforcement measures in order to respond to the suggestions and recommendations of the Committee on the Rights of the Child. In this regard, it may make non-binding proposals or recommendations to the competent authorities. In this committee, there is an intergovernmental body composed of representatives of the various Belgian governments. For the federal government, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice are represented as effective members of this body. The intergovernmental body meets regularly to coordinate the implementation of children's rights. On your third question, the report was presented in 2019 to a government in day-to-day business, which delayed implementation; my services have an important role in coordinating implementation at the federal and inter-federal levels. The aim is to take up each recommendation of the Committee on the Rights of the Child and to see, in consultation, what has been achieved since 2019 and the projects to be carried out. The aim is also to identify areas with gaps and find ways to fill them. It is therefore a matter of organizing a real dialogue between relevant partners in the various themes that affect the rights of the child.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u9	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. At least you have clarified the time limits for the Belgian Government to submit its report on the importance of properly implementing this international convention on the rights of the child. I also hear all the work that is being done in partnership with the National Commission for the Rights of the Child. I would, however, like to recall a request I had already made to you that would allow you to work properly, or even better, with the federated entities on the implementation of this international convention. It's about setting up a children's rights mentor streaming. In this way, both your government and those of the federated entities would be forced to ensure respect for the rights of the child and to measure the impact of your policies on the rights of the child. This work could be done in partnership with the National Commission. The United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child is requested to ensure compliance with its last report. The United Nations issued its final concluding observations in 2019 and already called on Belgium to improve the coordination of our country's implementation of the international convention on the rights of the child. I think we have everything to gain from it, first of all to honour our international commitments but above all to ensure that children's rights are effective. The stakes are immense: the rights of MENA, children with disabilities, child insecurity, battered children, sexual exploitation of minors, female genital mutilation. It goes without saying that you have my full support for these important projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u10	Dear colleague, with regard to your first question, I can assure you that the objective of the current government remains to reach an agreement for the deposit of an instrument of ratification of the optional protocol to this Convention. We therefore want to propose a permanent solution allowing for the rapid establishment of an effective mechanism covering all places of deprivation of liberty which fall within the jurisdiction of the Belgian State. We are currently at the stage of informal negotiations at the federal level, and we will then begin discussions with the federated entities. As far as your second question is concerned, the ministers responsible at the federal level are essentially, in addition to myself, the Minister of the Interior, the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, the Minister of Public Health and the Minister of National Defence. The preferred course of action as it stands is not to create an ad hoc mechanism, but to designate one or more existing institutions. None of the solutions proposed by the various bodies you quote can be appropriate. My firm therefore advocates a model that is as simple and as quickly as possible, and that would combine the advantages of the different solutions. On your third question, once the informal negotiations at the federal level have been finalized, I will disseminate these recommendations to all the ministers concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u11	Mr Minister, I am somewhat surprised at your answer, although I thank you for that, of course. I hear your willingness to move forward on this issue, which has been going on for far too long, and which, quite rightly, has the gift of irritating the United Nations Committee against Torture. Moreover, the Council has again urged our country to put this mechanism in place in its final concluding observations. It was in August 2021. I am surprised to hear you say that your will is not to create an ad hoc body. I can quite understand that, but at the same time, you do not intend to retain the solutions that I submitted to you, in any case, which were submitted to you, in particular, by the Federal Institute of Human Rights. This includes recourse to the Central Prison Supervision Board, or to the two federal mediators. I really ask the question: what option is it therefore going to be? As part of your policy note, you raised the fact that a round of consultations had resulted in models that have evolved over time and that, as a result, discussions had begun to establish a preference in principle. There would therefore be a preference in principle that emerged when we discussed your policy note. Today, I hear that none of the solutions that we are used to mentioning would ultimately be retained. I confess that this suspense, which remains whole, leaves me puzzled enough, not to say worried. I remain quite hungry in relation to your answer, and also in relation to a possible timetable. When will we be entitled to expect a parliamentary debate on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u12	Madam President, Mrs Rohonyi, first of all, I will not comment on the specific case to which you are referring. In general, I can say the following. In Belgium, making Nazi salvation, wearing or displaying other Nazi symbols is not explicitly mentioned in criminal legislation. However, such conduct may be prosecuted and punished. For example, public incitement to discrimination, segregation, hatred or violence (incitement offences in anti-discrimination laws) and denial, gross minimization, attempt to justify or approve the Holocaust (Negationism Act) have been criminalized. You know the importance of these laws, which are sometimes discussed even in this Parliament. The act of making Nazi salvation and displaying other Nazi symbols has also been condemned on the basis of this legislation. So there are limits to freedom of expression. Therefore, the current provisions of the anti-discrimination laws and the law on negationism appear to be sufficient. It does not appear necessary to provide for additional criminality. In addition, no field experts have given me a request to do so. The existing legislative arsenal already makes it possible to sanction such acts. Indeed, on 15 June 2009, the Charleroi Correctional Court sentenced a man who, at the time of the performance at the Charleroi Communal Council, held his right arm in oblique upwards, with a black gloved hand. The court considered Hitler's salvation to be an explicit and conscious reference to fascist ideology and considered that in making this gesture, it had incited hatred, violence, discrimination or racial segregation. In its judgement, the Criminal Court applied the Act of 30 July 1981 to punish certain acts motivated by racism or xenophobia. More recently, on July 14, 2020, the Leuven Correctional Court sentenced a Hitler fan resident. He had decorated his house with gammed crosses, flags and other Nazi symbols. Anti-Semitic messages were hung on a tree and on its mailbox. All these elements were visible from the highway in a residential area where children also live. This man was convicted on the basis of the Act of 23 March 1994 to suppress the denial, minimization, justification and approval of the genocide committed by the German socialist national regime during the Second World War and on the basis of the aforementioned Act of 30 July 1981. The criminal provisions of the 1981 Act are included in Title II of Book II of the draft Criminal Code. This text is currently being discussed in intercabinet. It will be tabled in Parliament as soon as it has been approved by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u13	Mr Minister, I thank you for your reply, but also for reminding you that, even if making Hitler's salvation or bearing signs of allegiance to the Nazi regime is not expressly punished by law, this can be done through two important laws, namely the 1981 anti-racism law and the 1995 anti-negationist law. You have cited examples of convictions. This had been pointed out by the Council of State in its opinion on a bill tabled by my colleagues in the CDH which felt that more should be done and that all these unacceptable signs should be repressed. Indeed, we cannot lend allegiance to a regime that – we must remember – has been the most murderous and racist in our contemporary history. You consider that the current law of application is sufficient. However, today the reaction of the public prosecutor's offices is not the same in every district. We find ourselves again in a situation where reactions vary according to the district on which we depend. I therefore propose that you, Mr Minister, send a circular to the public prosecutor's offices reminding them of the importance of applying these laws by drawing their attention to the fact that they apply to these Nazi signs. If, in spite of all this, it were to be found that some public prosecutors continue to fail to apply the law properly, perhaps consideration should be given to holding a debate on the criminalization of the wearing of Nazi signs in Belgium. I hear that a text is being discussed in intercabinet, which I can only welcome, knowing that in Germany and France it is the legislative path that has been chosen.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u14	I thought that this question should be addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but obviously not. I trust that the Minister of Justice will be able to give a clear answer to this. Mr Minister, the judicial authorities in Sweden and France have set up a joint investigation team, a JIT (Joint Investigative Team), to support proceedings concerning serious international crimes committed by Foreign Terrorist Fighters against the Jezidi population in Syria and Iraq, on which we adopted a resolution some time ago in the Chamber. The authorities involved in the JIT will cooperate with the United Nations investigation team to claim liability for crimes committed by Daesh or the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant. Eurojust has supported the establishment of the JIT, which will allow the long-term coordination of investigations and the rapid exchange of information and evidence. The joint efforts also avoid multiple interviews with the same victims, who have experienced terrible circumstances. Are you aware of the joint investigation team? Are the Belgian authorities willing to cooperate with the JIT? How do you see this cooperation and at what time? What concrete steps has the government already taken in response to our resolution?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u15	In October 2021, the federal prosecutor was informed of the creation of the joint investigation team. Given the current state of affairs and the fact that the federal prosecutor has already investigated crimes committed by identified persons against the Jezidis, the federal prosecutor does not consider it appropriate to join. Nevertheless, the federal prosecutor has exchanged information on several occasions and will continue to do so, not only with the Swedish and French authorities, but also with colleagues from other countries who deal with international crimes against the Jezidis. Of course, we remain in contact with other countries on the issue. Nothing is definitive in that sort of thing. Indeed, in the coming weeks or months, rogatory commissions are being considered to be sent to Iraq. You also had a question about humanitarian aid and reconstruction. In the context of Belgian humanitarian aid, there are no projects aimed directly and specifically at the yezedis. However, Belgium contributes flexibly to the humanitarian system, including the funds for UN OCHA, the CICR and the Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) of OCHA. Belgium also contributed EUR 4 million to the humanitarian fund for Iraq. This fund allocated EUR 1.6 million to UNFPA Iraq for a two-year capacity building programme for women's organisations and mandated OCHA to ensure the necessary follow-up on women and girls' access to psychological support, health care and life-saving resources, thus providing integrated services to victims of sexual and gender-related violence in camps for internally displaced persons, refugees and the most vulnerable population groups. Belgium also supports two initiatives contributing to the possible return of Jezidis, namely the Norwegian Refugee Council project, conflict prevention and promotion of housing land and property rights in Iraq, and the Sant'Egidio project, promoting the stabilisation of the coexistence of minorities and religious communities in Iraq. As regards the contribution to reconstruction, Belgium financed a project between 2018 and 2020, mainly aimed at building schools in areas devastated by Daesh, for an amount of EUR 136,790. The project reached approximately 65,000 and 392,000 direct and indirect beneficiaries respectively. Belgium, together with other European countries, encourages the Iraqi Government to implement the Yazidi Female Survivors' Law quickly and effectively. We are seeing a lot of delays in implementation. Belgium will therefore continue to plead with the Iraqi authorities and international bodies for the interests of the Jezidis and the application of the law. We also follow closely the question of the return to the villages and cities of origin of the Jezidis who wish to do so. Belgium, together with other EU states, is actively advocating the implementation of the Sinjar agreement by the two governments concerned, namely Iraq and the Kurdish region. I am convinced that this is the best way to bring stability to the region and allow the return of the Jezidis who wish it. However, the situation on the ground remains extremely complex and precarious and we note that little progress has been made so far, despite the fact that both governments continue to reaffirm their commitments. In reply to your fourth question on the legal aspect, the parliamentary resolution asks the Belgian Government to investigate the possibility of prosecuting crimes against Jezidis. Since 1999, Belgian criminal law has indeed made it possible to prosecute acts of genocide as such. In addition, the law of 29 March 2004 on cooperation with the International Criminal Court in international criminal tribunals was amended in 2019 to allow and organise the cooperation of the Belgian judicial authorities with the internationally impartial and independent mechanism responsible for the most serious crimes committed in Syria, including Daesh. At international level, Belgium was co-sponsor of United Nations Security Council Resolution 2379 in 2017, which formed the basis for the creation of the United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da'esh (UNITAD). That team is competent to collect and preserve evidence of acts committed by Daesh in Iraq that can be classified as crimes against humanity, war crimes or genocide. During his mandate in the Security Council, Belgium regularly supported the Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da'esh and insisted on the importance of prosecuting the perpetrators of serious crimes, regardless of their due diligence. Moreover, since 2013, Belgium has actively promoted the idea of opening negotiations on a multilateral treaty that would facilitate and strengthen mutual legal assistance between states with a view to the national prosecution of persons suspected of war crimes, crimes against humanity and crimes of genocide.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u16	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much for the detailed answers, particularly with regard to my fourth question. It is quite a sandwich and we can only be grateful that we are trying to bring the dossier to a successful conclusion together with the government, thanks to the resolution. The recognition of genocide is very important to the victims of war and their families, as they themselves testified, not least Nadia Murad, who insisted that reconstruction can only begin after the recognition of the genocide. I do regret the response of the federal prosecutor. That doesn't want to join the JIT, because there are own investigations going on. There will be bilateral links and information exchange, but also within Europe the JITs have proved their worth. I hope you'll be able to follow that up. If the opportunity ever comes to join a JIT after all, I think it can only be too good for the cause.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u17	Madam President, Minister, I have already asked you oral questions on the decision of the Federal Conciliation Committee (FBC) on the new rules for recognised mediation training and the problems identified by various training institutes. One of my questions was about possible conflicts of interest with members of the FBC. In your reply, you indicated that there was no bias, because there was no problem with persons who had a personal interest in the new training regulations, you admitted in your reply that there were persons who could have a personal interest in the new training regulations, because they had voluntarily abstained in the final debate and decision. You already feel that this answer did not reassure me at all. The fact is that the then president of the FBC at that time also owned his own educational institute. His interest was therefore different from that of FBC members who only performed a teaching assignment. The President also played an important role in the whole decision-making process for obvious reasons, although he abstained from the final vote. Minister, it is essential to avoid any appearance of bias in order to safeguard the independence and credibility of the FBC vis-à-vis mediators and citizens. The perception of partiality has now emerged. I hear that from a lot of mediators. That is why I am once again asking you a question about it. The perception is that the FBC does not serve the general interest but pursues private interests. This is problematic, especially given the FBC's social role in promoting mediation as an alternative form of dispute resolution. Moreover, even the deontological code drawn up by the FBC itself states that a mediator can only accept to conduct mediation if his neutrality, independence and impartiality cannot reasonably be questioned. Shouldn't the same deontology apply to members of the FBC? Mr Minister, I come to my questions. Firstly, do you agree that the appearance of conflict of interest and bias should be avoided? If yes, can someone who owns their own training institute which organises mediation courses be a member of the FBC responsible for the recognition of mediation courses or institutions? Secondly, do you intend to adapt the regulatory framework so that such conflicts of interest can be avoided in the future? Finally, how can better motivation and accountability of FBC decisions be ensured?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u18	Mrs Platteau, of course I agree that the appearance of conflict of interest and bias must be avoided. I refer to my reply that I gave you in September, namely that the composition of the FBC is laid down in the law and in the Royal Decree implementing it. There is an effective rule to avoid conflicts of interest, namely Article 30 of the FBC's Rules of Procedure. The FBC has confirmed to me that this internal regulation is effectively applied in the adoption of the new regulation in order to avoid the possible appearance of bias. With regard to your second question, it is possible that a person who has set up a training institute that organises mediation courses may also be a member of the FBC, just as the mediators themselves can also be part of the FBC. As Rule 30 of the Rules of Procedure exists and as far as it is correctly applied, I do not think that this is a problem. For your third question, the FBC is, as I said earlier, an independent administrative authority and is therefore in a position to determine its rules of procedure. I do not think it is appropriate for the legislator to determine all the details in this respect. A possibility at legislative level could be to have the rules of procedure adopted by the King, following the example of the orders of lawyers laid down in Article 491 of the Code of Justice. With regard to your fourth question, I agree with you that decisions must be properly justified,'reasoned' to use the jargon. This is a guarantee to deliver the adage:Justice must not only be done, justice must also be seen to be done. However, if there is any doubt about the decisions, it is not for me as a minister to judge them, but for an independent court, the Council of State. The decisions of the FBC may be appealed to the Council of State and problems of justification may be raised there.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u19	Minister, you refer to the FBC's own rules of procedure, which you say should be applied correctly. I fully agree, of course. However, here too, I believe that there has been a problem in the reasons for the decision and in the way in which it was taken. You refer to the procedure for a decision and to what makes a decision perceived as fair. Those who disagree with that decision are all mediators. And yes, they did not go to the Council of State to challenge that decision because they hoped to solve it in another way. They are mediators. However, I believe that some fundamental questions can be asked about the way in which the FBC is currently operating. I have noted from your previous answer that you would like to do something about this because you consider mediation to be very valuable and that this method is of great interest to you. I am therefore looking forward to the further initiatives you will take to improve this operation and to promote mediation even more.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u20	Minister, you were normally going to come up with a proposal at the end of last year to reform notary costs. It was then very specific about three aspects. Firstly, it concerned the transparency of tariffs. It concerns the fees, administrative costs and external costs charged by the notary. Secondly, it was a review of the regulated tariffs, since they have been introduced since 1980 and have not been revised in all this time. Thirdly, it would also concern the further modernisation of the profession and the increase in access to the profession. Minister, I would have liked to know how far you are with the reform of notary tariffs. When can we expect this in Parliament? Can you give more insight into your plans already? What specific rates would be involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u21	Minister, you know my commitment to the notarial sector. Last April, I asked you about your willingness to modernise the regulation of the profession of notaries, in consultation with them, in particular with regard to the revision of their tariffs. Indeed, the Royal Decree of 1950, concerning the profession of notary and its tariffs, clearly requires an update. You told me, then, about this, that this order was obsolete. I agree with you. It should also be noted that certain acts were still mentioned when they no longer existed. Reform is therefore necessary. We share the same view. Therefore, my questions are specific. What progress has been made on this issue since last spring? How are the consultations with the sector taking place very concretely and within what time frame do you expect to finalize this reform? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the texts, including the amendments to the Ventôse Act, the Judicial Code, the Civil Code and the tariff decision, i.e. the famous Royal Decree of 1950, are currently being finalised and will then be presented to the Government. After agreement, the texts will be submitted to the Council of State and then to Parliament. Mrs Depraetere, I intend to carry out an effective review of the fees and administrative costs. One of the main objectives is to make the purchase of an average family home cheaper. We also want to give greater transparency and clarity to the public in relation to the notary's account. It is then about how much the fee is, which is the administrative cost, how many taxes were levied and so on. Let me turn to your second question, Mr Goffin. The proposal was prepared in close consultation with the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u23	Minister, if I understand correctly, the text will soon come to Parliament, following a passage from the Council of State. It is good to hear that it is still the intention to revise the fees and certainly the rates for the purchase of a property. That problem is still topical and is getting bigger, I have the impression. Mr Goffin has already mentioned it, and I hope that there will be a review of certain costs that are still being passed on. I am thinking of the cost of making a copy or a translation, while all this has been digitised very strongly. I assume that these costs will also be included in your design. We will be discussing this in Parliament shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u24	My colleague has summarized everything and I thank the minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u25	Madam President, Minister, if someone's address is with you, but it is not about your partner, for example, then the bailiff can confiscate your property, even if you are not in debt. They are suspected to be the debtor's property, even if it is not. The owner may oppose the seizure of the goods at the time of the attachment and when he is not the debtor of the attachment agent. However, that procedure is not clear. One can, of course, have a notary record in advance of which goods belong to the person himself and which of the debtor. We notice that there are regular problems there, because people have not done so. At the time of the seizure, they will then find that this procedure is not so easy at all. A whole procedure must then be initiated in the case of subpoenas. That must be paid for by the person who claims to be the owner and that his goods should not in principle be confiscated. A great deal of evidence must then be produced. In fact, it is very often the case that people who no longer have invoices and have not done that procedure in advance with the notary, with all the consequences. That also brings with it a very big cost. Are there any other procedures that will make this better organised? Perhaps they exist already or perhaps they can be adapted? You are in the process of reforming the rates of the notary. It could perhaps be an opportunity to set a cheaper rate for people specifically affected by this problem. Is that what you're doing?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u26	Madam President, Mrs Depraetere, in your question I sense a concern for the owner of the property in which it is seized when it is not the debtor at all. That is indeed a legitimate concern. There is currently no other option for the owner to recover his property than through such review proceedings. It is true that in order for this procedure to be instituted, thevenging party must prove that he owns those goods. However, such evidence may in principle be provided by any means of law, presumptions or witnesses included. The Court is thus given a very wide discretion in assessing the evidence. It would lead us too far to give an overview of the legal proceedings here, but I would like to add some elements. For example, a marriage or social contract can be accepted as proof of ownership in the context of the review action. The judge may also demand, in order to prevent abuse, that the creditor stays in the cold unjustly, that proof is provided that the goods were actually paid by thevenging party. It is therefore wise to keep the proof of payment. The costs of this procedure are usually charged by the attachment court to the losing party. If thevenging party gets the same, the confiscating party will have to bear the costs. If, on the other hand, the evidence is insufficient, the recipient will have to bear the costs of the proceedings. In practical terms, it may also happen, and that seems to me to be a better option for the party seized to be present on the premises of the attachment and to submit the ownership documents to the court bailiff. Here, the bailiff can fully assume his mediation role. He shall take into account the interests of the debtors. If it turns out that the proofs of ownership are indeed conclusive, it will not seize the goods in question. In this way, an unnecessary procedure for the attachment court is avoided. It can be added that the bailiff cannot confiscate all the goods. The debtor is protected by the list of goods not susceptible to attachment, the famous Article 1408 of the Civil Code. That list also applies, of course, to the owner of those goods. In reply to your second question, it is true that we are currently in the process of reforming tariffs, as I said earlier. We are certainly prepared to examine your proposal and take it on board in either the current adjustment or at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u27	Mr Minister, earlier I questioned Secretary of State Mahdi in the Committee on the Interior about the fact that, in case of doubt about the stated age of self-declared minors, an age study is not always carried out. In his reply, your colleague stated that this is partly due to the fact that minors sometimes disappear from the radar after expressing that doubt. Another reason is that other information may have become available in the file. At my question whether this is the explanation for all cases where an age study is not carried out, or only for part of it, your colleague said that this question would be better put to you, because another cabinet is responsible for that investigation. Can you clarify all the reasons why, in case of doubt, an age study is not always carried out? Is this limited to the two reasons already mentioned, namely disappearing from the radar or new elements in the file? Are there any other explanations? If so, what are the explanations? Can you confirm that, if any of the above reasons does not apply, there is always an age study when there is doubt about the stated age?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u28	The Voogdij department immediately organises a medical test when the authorities responsible for asylum, entry to the territory, residence and removal doubt the self-declared minority of a person claiming to be an NBMV. In 2021, the Voogdij service carried out a medical test in 76 % of the cases after doubts were expressed. The Voogdij service cannot perform a medical test if the person concerned disappears from the radar. In addition, the Voogdij service does not carry out medical tests in a number of situations. Firstly, this does not happen if a medical test has already been carried out according to the method of the Voogdij department. Secondly, it does not happen if the person concerned is in possession of European documents or documents issued under international conventions. Thirdly, it does not happen if the person concerned refuses to undergo a medical test. The Voogdij department is talking to the person concerned to clarify the procedure of the medical test and the consequences of this refusal. If the person concerned continues to refuse, the department shall contact the authority which caused the doubt and make a decision on the basis of the information contained in the file. The test shall be postponed in pregnant girls, for other medical or psychological reasons or in other exceptional circumstances, for example when the person declares to be older than 18 years after doubt has been expressed. If the Voogdij department thinks the person could be under 18, a medical test will be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your enlightening answer. As far as the refusal is concerned, I had not yet received an answer from Secretary of State Mahdi. So it is true that there are people who claim protection, claim that they are underage and then refuse to undergo an age study. I understand from you that, on the basis of the elements in the file that are already available, it will be decided whether the doubt is justified and a multi-year-old or a minor applicant for protection will be assumed. Of course, I will not fail to question the Secretary of State, and perhaps you too, in the future about the number of decisions taken on this matter and whether it could be that an applicant for protection refuses to undergo an age examination and yet still gets the privilege of being treated as a minor. There may be figures on this. I would find that very punishing, but that may require additional questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u30	Minister, on January 9, we were able to discover on social networks the wishes of a political party, the Reform Movement. I was particularly surprised at the place in which these vows, which included Sophie Wilmès, Georges-Louis Boucher and Louis Michel, were made. This video was shot in various places in the Brussels courthouse. The impartiality of justice is one of the cornerstones of our democracy. The institution of justice must not only be neutral but must appear as such to guarantee its credibility and legitimacy to our people. It is therefore particularly questionable that a political party organizes a political event in the most representative building of the Justice in Belgium. This unfortunate mix of genres may suggest that Justice is infused with a political party. Notwithstanding this particularly important consideration, another issue comes directly to mind. Is it normal for a public building to be used as a venue for a private event not inherent in the use of the building? What prevents all the political parties in our country from monopolizing public places for their wishes or other demonstrations? Does this use create by a precedent? Minister, do you consider this use of a public building to be ethical and legal? Don't you think it weakens the image of the judiciary that is so important to our democracy? Has an authorization been requested by the political party in question? If so, at which instance? Has financial compensation been requested for the occupation of the courthouse? If so, what is the amount and how was it determined? If this is not the case, how can we justify the free occupation of a federal building?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u31	Madam President, Minister, the choice for the Justice Palace, where the MR recorded a new year's message on video, was extremely unfortunate. In that building, I believe that neutrality and impartiality must be guaranteed. I therefore agree with the questions that Mrs Matz has already asked. Minister, do you agree that public buildings can be used for things that do not correspond to what they were built for? If political messages are allowed, can other than political organisations organise activities there in the future? Was consent requested for that video recording, or were the images just recorded without knowledge? Was a fee charged for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u32	Madam President, Mrs Matz, Mrs Bury, I understand that these questions were also put to the attention of my colleague, responsible for the Directorate-General for Buildings. I'll give you the answers now. First, the applicant, the Reform Movement, made a request to the first President of the Court of Cassation, inter alia, to produce a video at the Brussels courthouse dedicated to his annual wishes. The agreement has been given. Secondly, the President of the Court of Cassation has explicitly asked for the use to be limited to two hours. Authorization was only given for the Visitors' Room, which, as a reminder, is a space open to the public and without restrictions. Those two requirements were met by the applicant. Thirdly, the recording was performed on a Saturday, in order to limit the impact for the justitives. Finally, as a reminder, many state-owned places such as the Palais de Justice in Brussels are accessible to all subject to certain conditions, in the context of the production of photographs, videos or films. In the case of shootings at the Palais de Justice in Brussels, no remuneration shall be charged to the applicant by the Régie des Bâtiments or by the Judicial Order. Don't worry, ladies and gentlemen, I know the principles of trias politica. More than that, I am committed to independent and impartial justice. There must be no doubt about this. This independence has never been jeopardized.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u33	Minister, as the sound has been cut several times, I did not understand your first answer. Excuse me for having to make you repeat it. Before talking about the President of the Court of Cassation, you said that this authorization had been requested from the Régie des Bâtiments, which one accepted? Is that it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u34	No, no. I will repeat myself: I understand that this question was also asked to my colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments. He will certainly confirm the answers I will give you. Then I added that the applicant, therefore the Reformist Movement, had filed an application with the first president of the Court of Cassation. I think you heard the rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u35	So, the application didn't go through the Régie?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u36	No, I did not say that, but - among other things - the question was asked of the President of the Court of Cassation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u37	You replied that you contacted your colleague in charge of the Régie. Have this body and the President of the Court of Cassation received an application for authorization?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u38	You should ask this question to my colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u39	Minister, according to your answers, I feel a little in reserve and uncomfortable with that. I fully understand that. As Minister of Justice, it is not up to you to know how to obtain authorization, but to ensure impartiality. You end by saying there's no problem about it. I would, of course, like to raise some doubts about impartiality. It seems to me that it's leaving the door open to a lot of things. The principles of impartiality and neutrality, in particular, are dear to you, I know, as well as to this political formation, usually, but they cannot be said to have been fully guaranteed with this event. We find this regrettable. As far as authorisations are concerned, I feel that you do not want to move on to the issue. This is normal because it is not your competence as such. Presumably, it had to pass through someone other than the President of the Court of Cassation. We will not fail to question your colleague Michel on this issue. I feel very uncomfortable and I understand that you are. A public building is already a problem in itself, but it is even more so for the Palace of Justice. The fact that there was no counterpart to this either is also a problem in itself. We will further investigate this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u40	Mr. Secretary, I see you don't see any bones in it. You say that the President of the Court of Cassation was contacted and an agreement was reached. The recording time was limited to two hours and, more importantly, the recording took place only in the salle des pas perdus. In that room I used to be very often in the working environment, but also at a New Year's reception at the Brussels desk, because it is a prime location, with the necessary lighting, among other things. The experiment of Foucault's pendulum was repeated in that room; that also has nothing to do with the Justice Department. However, I can conclude from your reply that we can assume that all parties can do so in the future. We'll take that with us. We therefore hope that agreement will be reached consistently for other applications in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u41	Mr Minister, this question was put to Minister Verlinden by my colleague Depoortere. I also ask you this question because it requires a number of additional questions. There was a confrontation with the police forces where cops ended up in a gunfight. The person concerned didn't survive the shooting. The mayor of the police area in question said: "The Corps has done a great job. It was very difficult circumstances. In any case, the tragic event will have an impact on the police." After that incident, they said that there was a difficult treatment by the justice system. Contrary to the protocol with the P Committee, agents were not granted a cooling-off period and were brought directly before the investigating court for a hearing of category 4. The reason for the deprivation of liberty and the questioning of category 4 is even more striking, because according to the parquet it was a practical consideration. I wonder what that practical consideration was. Was it assumed that the agents concerned would flee or try to evade the investigation? I find that very strange. Minister, why was the protocol with the P Committee not complied with? What steps will you take to ensure that this is done in the future? What are the motives of the public prosecutor's office for such a far-reaching hearing to take place so soon after the facts? Will you apologize to the officers involved? Will you take initiatives with the Minister of the Interior to avoid such incidents in the future and put the mental well-being of our agents first?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u42	I fully endorse the quote of the mayor of the police area concerned. A shooting incident is not an everyday event and has an impact on the police people involved. Fortunately, the police receive internal assistance from the stress team and legal assistance if they wish. First of all, it is in the interest of the police officers concerned that the facts are examined by an independent body, here the P Committee. It is important that there be rapid clarification about the correct action of the police, so that there can be no doubt about this. How this should be done is clearly set out in a directive of the College of Attorneys General, which is included in COL10/017. That letter is about violence against the police, but also about violence by the police. About this incident, the Antwerp parquet tells me that the decision to apply a Salduz IV procedure to all agents was taken by the investigating judge and not by the Antwerp court. According to the information I was informed, there has been no preliminaries to the investigating judge. The judge thus decided autonomously to apply the Salduz IV procedure on the occasion of the tie-off. The reason for this would have been explicitly and comprehensively explained by the judge to the policemen concerned. In contrast to the prosecutor's office, investigators are not bound by the circular COL10/017 of the College of Attorneys General. This Directive shall be discussed at regular intervals between the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, including in the Justipol Consultation Platform. I want, of course, in the interests of truth and respect for police officers, to ensure that the COL10/017 is respected as closely as possible. I will ask the College of Attorneys General to remind the investigators of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u43	Mr Minister, you say that the COL10/017 should not be respected by the investigating judge. However, the impact of a deadly shooting accident on the agents involved is considerable. You say they can join a stress team. However, those measures will be null and void if the investigating judge does not have to respect the cooling-off period and can do what he wants. Then there must be intervention. You can look at this with your colleague. If something like that happens, you should at least give the officers time to place it. Of course, truth must be found, but a judge of inquiry must take this into account. That's why it's in that COL. Respect for police forces and the mental well-being of police officers are already very much at risk. We can now see that in strikes. It is important to ensure that such matters do not happen again in the future. It should be added to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u44	Madam President, Minister, the figures for recidivism in our country are extremely high. For example, recent figures refer to recidivism for nearly six out of ten convicts. A NCIC study shows that the majority of repeat offenders have already been sentenced to imprisonment, suggesting the extremely criminogenic nature of the prison. It is therefore impossible to avoid the introduction of complementary measures to combat recidivism, beyond the outright prison option. Therefore, it would be wise for me to think about a wider use of alternative sentences, such as autonomous probation sentences or working sentences, particularly for a range of offences related to public health problems. Particular emphasis should be placed on the reintegration, in particular social, of the convicted person. As Pr. Damien Vandermeersh, alternative punishments must be done in an accompanying approach, which must be conditional and which leads the person to become an actress of his behaviour and his future. It is not just a question of neutralizing the person, but also of working on awareness and questioning. Minister, has a review of alternative sentences – some of which are relatively recent – and their impact on recidivism been conducted recently? If so, what are the conclusions? If not, do you or will you initiate, as part of the reforms that we are undertaking with you, an analysis of recidivism in case of so-called alternative sentences? Is the use of alternative penalties sufficiently used by the criminal courts in our country? Do you see a decrease in the recidivism rate of persons sentenced to an alternative sentence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, to answer your first question, I can tell you that, to my knowledge, there is no record of alternative penalties. However, this does not prevent me from referring you to the National Institute of Criminalism and Criminology and its interesting report to which you referred. A stocktaking of knowledge on recidivism in Belgium was prepared in 2021 by researchers from the INCC. The report entitled State of play of criminological work on recidivism in Belgium is the most recent state of play on the knowledge available in Belgium. This report does not mention the recidivism of nearly six out of ten convicts, even though these figures were quoted in the press last week. It is such differences and questions about the real data on recidivism that support my desire to quickly put in place an instrument to monitor recidivism in Belgium. Several initiatives have been taken recently at this level. Currently, as part of the modernization of conviction statistics, the FPS Justice is working with the NCIC to try to standardize statistics for the FPS Justice (annual conviction statistics) and the NCIC (recidivism studies). A Recidive Cell and Criminal Careers (CReCC) is created at NCIC. NCIC is also working in parallel on recidivism-related projects that will consolidate the work of the CCCB during its first two years of operation. The objective is both to develop a quasi-automatic recidivism monitor, to answer specific questions from the FPS Justice regarding recidivism and criminal careers, and to develop a long-term research program on recidivism and criminal career. These activities, for which a budget is planned, have only just begun. They will clearly aim to increase knowledge on these issues. This will include the careful testing of new scientific initiatives, preferably through systematic bibliographical research and experimental research in the initial phase, in order to have clear indications from the outset of the effectiveness of a sanction or measure. The importance of this, ladies and gentlemen, has unfortunately again been illustrated this week. In view of the lack of figures, it is not possible to give an answer that is evidently based. A 2009 study in the Netherlands, Recidive na werkstraffen en gevangenisstraffen, concluded that workers who had been sentenced to a work sentence recidivated 47% less than those who had been sentenced to short sentences and that the effect was present in the short and long term. This supports the fact that the lack of figures on the recidivism rate in Belgium does not call into question the intrinsic value of alternative punishments such as the work sentence, which is a constructive penalty allowing the convicted person to serve his sentence in society while maintaining his social network, or the probation penalty which allows the convicted person to work on targeted issues through specific training. I would like to refer to an article on the working sentence published in the December 18-19, 2021 edition of the newspaper Gazet van Antwerpen, which gives visions of convicts, magistrates, places of service and criminologists in this regard. That is interesting to read, ladies and gentlemen. The statistics on convictions show an increase in alternative sentences imposed. The labour penalty remains an important part of the panel of the main penalties mobilised by the criminal courts. In fact, there are about 10,000 of them annually, compared with 27,000 custodial sentences of up to five years, which share the same scope of application. Although their number fell by 700 in 2017, they have again reached the 10,000 mark since 2018. It should also be noted that the granting of a stay of such work sentences is almost eliminated, thereby strengthening their effectiveness.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u46	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answers. The debate of 2022 on the reform of the Criminal Code will be of great interest. You are quoting an article from Gazet van Antwerpen on the analysis of alternative sentences and working sentences. If I can paraphrase, Crisne's gazette could also teach you some very positive elements on the enforcement of labour sentences. As you said in referring to probationary sentences, one can, with some flexibility in terms of working sentences, allow people to keep their jobs while serving their sentences on weekends, for example. This is a matter of flexibility, but it is a flexibility that ultimately does a lot of good to both the institution and the people who, at some point, are forced to carry out their sentence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u47	Minister, the rights of defence are one of the essential elements of our democratic system. This is one of the essential pillars of our positive law, in all areas and especially in criminal matters. Some voices have been raised from the field, especially from the bar associations, to denounce what some call a decline in the rights of the defence and the principle of adversarial to the benefit of ever larger powers of the public prosecutor's office. Some forms of reversal of criminal litigation, by which, inter alia, the lack of responses would be interpreted as pure and simple recognitions, are worrying and appear to lead to a subsequent weakening of the rights of the defence. Similarly, the field tells me that in criminal proceedings, the Public Prosecutor's Office takes more than rarely written requisitions, even when the defence submits a written argument. This difference in treatment also seems to weaken the principles of adversarialism. While I readily understand that some pragmatism must be taken into account and that some effectiveness must also be ensured, I believe that respect for such fundamental principles as adversarial and defence rights is essential. Minister, what do you think of these criticisms of a reduction in the rights of the defence? Does not the new procedures by which a lack of response is interpreted as disfavoring the suspect, particularly in the case of taxiing, limit too much respect for the rights of the defence and the principle of adversariality? What are the grounds for the difference in procedural treatment between the prosecution and the other parties to a trial?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, the rights of defence and the principle of adversarialism are fundamental principles constituting our democratic State. You assume that by giving more power to the Public Prosecutor's Office, we are blaming these principles. I know that such criticisms are sometimes made by certain circles, just as every judicial actor is regularly criticized. To avoid any misunderstanding, I have no problem with this, quite the contrary. It is good that the debate takes place in a democracy. I am always willing to listen to arguments to defend and strengthen the rule of law. Nevertheless, the Public Prosecutor's Office as a prosecutor monitors, respects the investigation both at the stage of the criminal investigation and at the stage of the judicial investigation and the examination of the merits, including the prosecution and the defence, while respecting the rights of the defence, the right to a fair trial and the principle of adversarial proceedings. Our courts and tribunals also monitor the rights of defence and other fundamental rights on a daily basis. To your second question, and to return to your specific question, I know that there is some concern at times within bars that a person who commits an alleged traffic violation would not have sufficient opportunity to challenge the offence. I can tell you that I am not insensitive to the question and that at each stage there is the right to challenge the infringement: at the level of immediate perception, transaction and payment order. Nevertheless, I am trying to do what is necessary for the effective functioning of justice and the police. In this context, I am continuing to work on systems that have existed for a long time in terms of immediate perception and transaction. As far as your third question is concerned, a lot of ink has already sunk on this subject. I will try to answer your question in a succinct and precise way. The procedure for hearings in criminal matters is governed by articles 153 and 190 of the Code of Criminal Investigation. These hearings are characterized by their public and oral nature. The proceedings before the court are essentially oral, which does not prevent the parties from sending, in addition to their oral explanations, written submissions to the judge, who will then have to reply to them. Under penalty of nullity, the Public Prosecutor's Office must be heard at the hearing on his application, where he summarizes the file and his conclusions on the application of the criminal law. The Public Prosecutor's Office is therefore obliged to ask. Of course, this obligation does not apply to the defence, which is organized as it sees fit. Neither article 152 of the Code of Criminal Investigation nor any other legal provision obliges the Public Prosecutor's Office to submit the file in writing or to demand a written sanction during the closing periods. Finally, reference can be made to the specific task of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Public Prosecutor's Office carries out public service tasks in the investigation and prosecution of offences and calls for the application of criminal law in the interest of the community; while the other parties defend their personal interests. The procedure for criminal hearings also provides that the accused may, if he or she so wishes, always answer and have the last word. Article 152 of the Code of Criminal Investigation also guarantees the equality of arms, in the sense that the judge will be able to assess whether the content of the oral requisition of the Public Prosecutor's Office is such that it justifies further time limits for conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u49	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u50	Minister, the coming into force of the short sentences of imprisonment was postponed, at the end of last year, to June 1, 2022. The NCM was and continues to be seeking this implementation since the short sentences, along with a greater use of alternative sentences to imprisonment, allow the offender to be dealt with quickly upstream of his or her criminal path. The model of the Netherlands is a good example of this, since the prison population in that State has only decreased in recent years, in particular due to its policy of enforcing all prison sentences, including the shortest. As I said, the implementation of this reform will be an appointment not to be missed this year. So, Minister, has this reform project, as postponed, since there have been any real adjustments or changes since it was postponed in order to guarantee its entry into force in June this year? Are such changes and/or adjustments expected by June, in order to ensure not only the entry into force of this measure in June 2022, but also the effectiveness of this measure as soon as it comes into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u51	Dear colleague, you know how much I am committed to the application of this law. Short sentences must also be served. First of all, it should be recalled that the postponement of the entry into force of the law was motivated by the covid crisis, which once again hit our country hard and by the necessary changes that still had to be made. However, the deferral period will be used to determine whether changes can still be made to optimize the application of the Act. If necessary, these will then be submitted to Parliament in the short term. In the meantime, all efforts to bring the law into force will continue unabated, such as the mobilization of an operational working group, composed in a multidisciplinary manner with all relevant actors, which meets on a regular basis. After meeting in December, it meets again on 21 January, so next Friday. Implementing orders have been drafted and submitted to the actors on the ground and to the CIM Maisons de Justice. In practice, these orders have now been submitted to the financial inspector. His opinion is expected shortly; the dossier will then be submitted to the Council of Ministers to continue the legislative process. Thirdly, as already mentioned, the training courses were organized by the Judicial Training Institute. It was the 22nd and 29th of October. Training will also be organized for prison staff by February. In March, further sessions will be organised both through the Institute and for other partners in order to ensure optimal information for all stakeholders. A brochure for persons sentenced to sentences of three years or less is being finalized. Computer adaptations have been made or are under way to enable actors in the field to work through an optimised digitalised process. A digitalized form for the application for limited detention or electronic surveillance is developed. All this work is carried out in consultation and collaboration with all relevant actors in the field, which will allow for optimal preparation and adapted to the needs of all these actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u52	Thank you, Minister. I had no doubt about your good will. These various actions clearly prove that the road is not blocked but that it is well drawn for an entry into force in June. It is a real rendezvous clause and it is possible that I will come back to you within a few weeks to see the progress of everything you have mentioned in your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u53	Minister, on December 22, the College of Attorneys General publicly stated that the necessary resources were not provided to meet the objectives of the National Security Plan. According to the College, the draft National Plan did not contain any formal commitment of budget or resources, particularly for the fight against drugs, terrorism or road safety. The lack of clarity in the budget was also highlighted, specifically with regard to the lack of a separate budget for the Federal Judicial Police. You indicated that these requests would be heard and that the amendments would be made to ensure sufficient means to achieve the new objectives. Minister, what answers have you provided to the College's request? What details on the annual means for terrorism, the fight against drug trafficking or road safety have you defined with your colleague from the Department of the Interior following this observation by the public prosecutors? What progress can already be reported on these means for the next few years?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u54	My colleague, this plan was drawn up by my colleague from the Interior and I refer to the reply she gave in the Committee on the Interior on 12 January. I quote: "The plan has never been linked to a specific budget plan. Its implementation is entirely based on the funding and functioning mechanisms of the integrated police force. As resources are not unlimited, a strategic choice mechanism allows for the discussion and validation of priorities within strategic coordination bodies, such as the Federal Police Steering Committee or the Integrated Police Coordination Committee. The basic allocations for the Federal Judicial Police are grouped into an organic division of the general expenditure budget. The specific appropriations of the Federal Judicial Police are included separately and relate to staff, investment and operating budgets. Certain common needs of the Federal Judicial Police, the Federal Police and, by extension, the Integrated Police are met by other common appropriations." I share the concern of the Public Prosecutor's Office to have sufficient resources for the judicial pillar of the Federal Police. In recent months, we have made considerable efforts in this regard in terms of additional means of recruitment, but it is mainly the recruitment of specialized personnel that remains a difficult issue for the time being. The government is gradually granting 50, 70, 90 and 100 million to the federal police during this legislature. The grant ranges from 2021 to 2024. In proportion, these resources will also benefit the DGI. In all cases, these additional resources may be used to carry out additional recruitments (1,600 aspirants on an annual basis), which will benefit the entire integrated police force. It is clear that the remaining budget must benefit in proportion to the EMD.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u55	Minister, thank you for your answers. I have no reply to the clarifications you are making, since there was an answer from the Minister of the Interior. We're asking for staff and I hear you're trying to meet that need. You say it is difficult but with the financial resources and budgets allocated to you, this difficulty is still relative and not absolute. I will come back to this matter later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u56	Minister, almost a year ago, on January 11, 2021, the Directorate General of Prisons (DG EPI) specified that 100 prisoners were monitored for radicalism, extremism and terrorism. The regional distribution was 43 prisoners in prisons in the North, 45 in prisons in the South and 12 in prisons in Brussels. In addition, I was able to ask you last year about the evaluation of the Deradex sections announced by your predecessor, our colleague Koen Geens. A few months ago, as you know, an action in the courts closed with regard to this specific form of imprisonment. The Brussels Court of Appeal had to rule and recalled that the European Court of Human Rights allowed exceptional prison regimes, but on certain conditions. Moreover, with regard to these conditions, adjustments had to be made to the internal functioning of these sections. Therefore, and while it is obviously important to secure the conditions of this prison system confirmed by the Court of Appeal and the European Court, I would like to know what measures have been taken since the decision of the Court of Appeal and to have more details on the conclusions of the evaluation of the Deradex sections (and the measures that have resulted from them). How many prisoners for radicalism, extremism and terrorism have been imprisoned to date and in which prisons compared to the situation described a year ago? How many detainees are imprisoned in the Deradex sections? Had the internal functional framework of the Deradex sections had to be revised following the decision of the Court of Appeal on 12 April? What measures have been taken by the prison administration in this context? What decisions have been made following the Deradex section evaluation report? What is the state of the prison administration in this regard? What programme of action is planned for the next three years to modify or optimize this exceptional prison – which of course protects prisons and prisoners from religious proselytism?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u57	On your first question, the CelEx cell informs me that there are five people in the Deradex section of Ittre detained for terrorist acts or acts of common law but with extremist profiles and followed by the CelEx. However, there are no detainees for such acts in the Deradex section of Hasselt Prison. With regard to the figures for other institutions, 131 detainees are currently involved – 62 for the northern region, 56 for the southern region and 13 for Brussels. With regard to your second question, following the judgment of the Court of Appeal, the following procedure on the exit of the Deradex section has been put in place: every six months, the prison management prepares a summary note on the retention of the detainee in the Deradex section for the attention of the Director General, who decides within a month after the advice of the services CelEx and psychosocial extremism. This note re-examines the reasons for placement in the section, the developments, and the evidence relevant to the observations. The aim is for this note to incorporate the multidisciplinary approach. This summary note is annexed to the planned bimonthly evolution and must be capable of being contradictory. An interview is therefore planned with the inmate on this subject. This exchange allows it to respond to the need to make the retention decisions in the section contradictory. This procedure of assessment of the maintenance does not preclude the introduction at any time of a proposal to leave the Deradex by the prison management or a request by the detainee in this regard. In this case, the decision must also be taken within one month. With regard to the infrastructure of the Deradex section in Ittre, extension work is under way to accommodate the multi-purpose room and the visiting room. With regard to your third question, we note that the problem or risk of recruitment within prisons is currently much less widespread than a few years ago, but it is never absent and can be triggered again by factors such as feelings of injustice or for financial reasons. The number of cases for which containment is the priority has decreased. This allows us to focus on a more standardized approach that applies to all files. This does not mean that the containment route must be abandoned. It must always remain an option for files where this proves necessary. The emphasis is therefore on a more standardized and prevention-oriented approach. This approach is also a more sustainable response to the problem of radicalisation. This means that an offer and a tailor-made course of detention are formulated within the regular services based on the inmate's profile and needs. The creation of satellite prisons is in line with this. The aim of satellite prisons is to continue the disengagement of prisoners who have turned to violent extremism in the past and to prevent future involvement in violent extremism of prisoners who have not yet committed such acts, but who are assessed as being capable of evolving towards violent extremism. In both cases, the aim is to prevent a detainee from turning to violent extremism. Satellite prisons are therefore not considered as a transition to a Deradex service or as a necessary transition to a Deradex service. Prevention of recidivism in other forms of crime is also being sought. Disengagement is also actively pursued for other prisons. It is always necessary to examine what offer is available and is best suited to each inmate, whether in a satellite prison or in another prison; The detainees who are still in the Deradex section of Ittre have their place there and the regime is correct and in accordance with the law of principle, but there are not enough joint activities within the section. One test case took place in Hasselt where inmates participated in activities with other inmates in a highly controlled manner. This allowed inmates to fill their day more significantly, distract their thoughts and properly observe their evolution. This last point is essential for exit policy. The activities in which these detainees can participate must be explicitly identified and the preconditions must be very clear. Due to the limited number of detainees of the terrorist leader in the Deradex units, the available capacities are used for other detainees. The Deradex service in Hasselt is now occupied by incoming detainees who are forced to be placed in preventive quarantine or in medical isolation in the context of the Corona crisis. There are also a few prisoners in limited detention who are absent during the day. These detainees are not allowed to have contact with other detainees, so that their presence in the Deradex neighbourhood poses no risk to them or to radicalized detainees. In all cases, an absolute condition is that the capacity must be made available within 24 hours, when a decision is made to place a new inmate who is a recruiter within this section. To answer your fourth question, the services of the federated entities on the basis of their main tasks are responsible for formulating an offer concerning the accompaniment of disengagements. Initially, the scientific understanding of the mechanisms for radicalization of deradicalization and disengagement programmes was weak, if not non-existent. However, gradually, the Communities have formulated a service offer based on the vision and organizational structure of each. In addition to the specific offer, regular offers may also be made available to this category of prisoners. In general, the supply of federated entities currently does not adequately meet the needs. The Communities face the same problems as internal staff. Proposing group activities is difficult because of the limited size of the group, the language problem, the good will, the lack of space in the wing. However, the Communities may respond to individual requests for support. On the whole, the inmates of the service are seeking numerous sports and training activities. The test case of Hasselt prison where detainees participate in activities with other prisoners in a highly controlled manner deserves more attention because this way of working gives at least a partial response to the problem of joint activities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u58	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your extremely comprehensive answer. I admit that by listening to you, I was rather reassured with regard to the situation, in any case, with regard to the logistics of prisons. In the end, it's happy because the numbers you're announcing are higher than last year's for the category of inmates for this type of fact or for this type of profile, even though the Deradex cells are, for the moment, apparently dedicated to other priorities. But, if I have heard correctly, they can become operational within 24 hours, which is very good. I am a little more concerned after hearing from you about the availability at Community level which would undoubtedly deserve other questions which obviously need to be asked elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u59	In 2017, in a terrorist attack, a minivan hit the crowd on the Ramblas in Barcelona, Catalonia, and 16 people, including a woman from Limburg, died. Next week, my question will be addressed to Minister Wilmès in the Committee on External Relations. In the meantime, I've been looking everywhere for some information, including you, logically, as Minister of Justice. The reason for my question is the concern and the committee because an undisputed Spanish former policeman recently declared before the Spanish Supreme Court that the Spanish secret service would have been involved for a piece in these terrorist attacks. That caused a shock wave in Catalonia. There is a general demand for clarity and clarity. Several parties ask additional committees of inquiry to resolve that question. For this reason, and in view of the fact that the facts took place in the European Union and one of the victims came from Limburg, we must also consider the issue. Moreover, it is all the more important for the next of kin to be clear. Are you aware of the file? Have you had any contacts about that? Have you requested information from other judicial services? Do you also consider that we are involved in the matter of the nationality of the victims?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u60	During the Spanish preliminary investigation of the facts, Belgium carried out the various requests for legal aid based on the Audiencia Nacional. The victim cell of the federal prosecutor has assisted the relatives of the deceased Belgian victim, but also the seriously injured victim and his family during the preliminary investigation and the trial itself, where they were able to attend the sessions in real time at the federal courthouse, with the assistance of an interpreter. Neither the Federal Office nor the Security of the State has received any official information on this subject except what has been published in the press. I had no personal contact with my Spanish colleague on this matter, but the security of the State has asked for official explanations. However, an answer has not yet been received. I can confirm that, at the Federal Court of Justice's terrorism section, a file was immediately opened to the facts in Barcelona, not only because there were Belgian victims, but also because they had been certain suspects in Belgium in the months before the facts. The information was examined and passed on to the Spanish colleagues for the purpose of an investigation. In this sense, there were also regular contacts during the investigation with the Audiencia Nacional.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u61	Thank you very much for following up on the file. Apparently, one of the suspects was staying on our territory. It was a radicalized imam, Abdelbaki Es Satty. That makes the involvement all the greater. You have requested additional information from the Spanish public services. If you receive an answer, I expect you to inform Parliament and at least Mrs Wilmès. If that information has arrived next week, it can be taken into account in the further debate. The European Union is not only an economic union but also a union of values. We're all European. This makes our monitoring of full respect for the rule of law even more important. We must stand shoulder to shoulder against any form of terror, especially when special stories circulate about it. I'm sure my phone was bugged by the Spanish government. At some point Mr Puigdemont's car was followed by a geolokalizer from the Spanish state. Our services have overtaken that. That there is unrest about the activities of the Spanish government may be strange, but certainly not exceptional, given the track records of some of the Spanish security services.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u62	Mr Minister, the facts are now known. This is a 34-year-old man who's already served 10 years and suspected of abducting the four-year-old Dean, and probably killed him. He was arrested in the Netherlands. Unfortunately, a little later the boy was also found dead in Zeeland. It won't be a surprise if I say that those facts affect us all deeply. You are also the father of young children. That's not something a man leaves untouched. Little by little more information appears in the media, more than was available when I submitted my question. If we look at the person concerned's past, you will admit that this does not look so good, Minister. As I said, he was sentenced to ten years in prison in 2010 because he had abused his then stepson of two so severely that he died from the injuries he sustained. The judge then ruled that there was no purpose to kill. During his detention, the person has tried several times to get early release, which has always been refused. I think this is already a sign on the wall. The result is that the man in question left prison after serving his sentence, apparently without too much follow-up or treatment. I believe that this event shows how important follow-up is and how important it is to have a good system to assess risks and have proper follow-up already in prison. I asked if there was a psychiatric report. In the meantime, we know and state in the media what the conclusion was. Has there been a repeated evaluation during the detention of the person concerned? Has there been any evolution in his mental state and his sense of guilt? If so, what was the result? You sure there hasn't been any counseling in prison? We do read that he followed a program for his drug problem. Other than that, there hasn't been much. You say that we should be in psychiatry for that, but prisons also have a job to do, because he was detained, not interned. Has there been any kind of succession? When he got out, did there ever happen to be a follow-up or a flow of information? It used to be a lot easier and the district agent, or even the champetter, kept an eye on things. Hasn't any follow-up happened now? You say that the provision of the Criminal Court does not exist until 2012 and that it could have been done with that instrument. I am also convinced of this, but was there not a legal possibility for the other, similar system of posting that existed until then, namely that of the government? People who are dangerous could be followed. Wouldn't that have been a legal system? You know that I am a fan of the posting and I think I can see a certain moving insight in you. We are not just trying to expand it, but also to preserve it. A number of parties within the government would prefer to abolish this. In your policy paper, you didn't get beyond "we're going to investigate." My group then put forward a recommendation to ensure that it is retained and extended. That was voted down at the time. You say this will be investigated. I hope, and that is my main question today, that you are convinced that the system of posting cannot be abolished. Finally, what is the state of play regarding the risk assessment you announced? As I said, an assessment, even during detention, is very important, especially in the context of risk assessment. Where do you stand with that? Where do you stand on the effects of the gradual accountability? After all, I believe that there are opportunities there too to draw important lessons from what has gone wrong in the past and to ensure that in the future those gaps in the network for profiles such as these are closed as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u63	First of all, Minister, I would like to express my condolences to the family. I hope that they will be given sufficient support to overcome this tragedy one day. The facts are staggering. Dave De Kock, the alleged perpetrator, fled to the Netherlands and the boy was found. That man already abused a two-year-old boy in 2008, resulting in death. That child had several injuries and was left to his fate for a day until his mother came home. It was considered, however, that this was an inhuman act with the result of death, not murder. I know that you cannot elaborate on this, but it is staggering that this has been so qualified. After that, there was an early release. The man has asked that a number of times, but never got it. He spent his time in prison until the last day. This indicates that the man was not at all ready to be released back into society. He had served his sentence and so, as you stated in the press yesterday, the Justice Department had to release him. I have some questions. I have more than my written record and perhaps you cannot answer them all. There was a government posting. That wasn't discussed yesterday. That measure already existed, but it remained deafeningly silent about it. What was going on in there? Why wasn't the tool used? The Posting Act dates back to 2006 and was adopted in 2007. Implementing decisions were required and were published in 2012, after which the law could finally have an effect. What took you so long? How can a government justify this? Do you think that the posting that currently exists should be re-evaluated? You explained in detail yesterday that a perpetrator can continue to be supervised and followed up for up to 15 years. Fifteen years, so not life. Will that maximum period be re-evaluated? Will the posting be included in your new Criminal Code? If so, under what conditions? Back in the day, Minister Geens had deleted that. You have not yet confirmed what you will do with it, nor how you will succeed those who committed it after their punishment. I have a few more questions after the TV shows yesterday. Do we have a complete overview of recidivism in Belgium? I have just heard you say to Mr Goffin that we do not have a complete overview and that we will not be informed when it will be. People need to be kept out of society. In one of the newsjournals, you spoke yesterday about long-stay sites. How many places are we talking about? How many longstay places are there? Are those intended for sane criminals, insanityable criminals or sane criminals who need treatment? It's important to know how many places it takes and who it takes. Mr Heimans, renowned street, spoke of partial accountability. What is your position on this, Minister? Is it possible that a perpetrator will be subject to both prison and psychiatric supervision and will therefore have to follow both cases, not one or the other, as in the specific case? Specialists said yesterday in various programs that not everyone can be cured. In some psychopaths, treatment can make them even more persuasive and sluwer. You said that there is no place for such persons in psychiatry. You didn't say "some places," you said "no place" in psychiatry. Besides, there are waiting lists for psychopaths in many places, as you said. Minister, how many prisoners are on such a waiting list? How will you protect society from them? Several psychiatrists, including a psychiatrist in the De Afsprogram, stated that many of the perpetrators do not want to be treated at all and that no coercive treatment can be established either. This may apply both in prison and when posted. The treatment is started and the psychiatrist receives the person in question. The psychiatrist may prescribe medication to keep the aggression under control, but the person concerned may refuse to do so, for example by stating that he does not need it or choose not to be treated. Minister, how do you feel about that? How can we protect society from such individuals? You spoke, if I am not mistaken, of 20 postings a year. How many of these cases do you know there's a need for treatment? In how many of these cases is treatment refused? That too is a very important figure that I would like to know. Minister, what is your position on a total ban on dealing with children? The debate on professional secrecy must be opened up. In specific cases, I believe that aid workers should have a duty to trace such matters much more quickly and so that society can be helped.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u64	Madam Chair, Minister, before I speak on this issue, all my thoughts go to the family. The tragic events related to the abduction and death of little Dean once again highlight not only the problem of our repressive system with regard to violence against vulnerable persons, especially children, but also the problem of following up perpetrators of such violence. The press has revealed that the alleged perpetrator of this unspeakable act was indeed convicted in 2010 in our country for acts of ill-treatment leading to the death of a two-year-old child and a ten-year prison sentence at the time. Although he seems to have served his entire sentence, the follow-up of such individuals, linked to the risk of recidivism, obviously raises questions. These questions are reinforced by the fact that the Tilburg prison in which the suspect served his prison sentence appears to have requested that he be placed in psychiatric care, which clearly indicates a danger against which the prison cannot adequately protect. Minister, do you confirm that the main suspect had indeed been sentenced to ten years'imprisonment for similar acts and that he has served this sentence in full? Was it made available to the enforcement court or an equivalent measure in force at the time of conviction? If not for what reason(s)? Why was the request for psychiatric care not followed up at the time? Had any specific measures been taken to prevent the suspect from coming into contact with children in any way? Do you consider that acts committed against vulnerable persons, and especially children, should not be subject to aggravating circumstances justifying higher penalties, accompanied by specific and automatic follow-up measures and prohibitions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u65	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the death of little Dean has seized us all. On behalf of the Vooruit Group, I would like to make statements of support to the Dean Verberckmoes family. Although words are lacking, it is our duty to learn well-thought-out lessons from dramas over and over again. Minister, I would like to put four questions to you. First of all, the degree of insanity. In our country today it is impossible to combine prison time with compulsory treatment as is possible in the Netherlands. That is where we know the system of Gradual Insanity. It is not black or white, as in Belgium, but it is possible to intern someone after serving his sentence. This is how the person can be treated and left back in society only when a team of experts finds that there is no chance of a relapse. There is a combined sentence, namely punishment and treatment, and every two years an evaluation follows. On average, the perpetrators remain in internment for eight years. The result of this decisive policy has been four times less repeated than we have. In the coalition agreement, you were ordered to investigate the system of partial accountability. Do you agree that this system could avoid such tragedies in the future and do you intend to incorporate them into the new Criminal Code? I know that you were going to present this to the experts, but what is the state of play and what is your personal position on this matter? Secondly, there is the fundamental importance of risk assessment to know who we are dealing with and thus to be able to punish and guide. We are pleased that the POCO, the Penitentiary Research and Clinical Observation Centre, is finally coming up with the opening of the prison in Haren. A full team there is absolutely a requirement for us. It is therefore our question to really seize that opportunity now. Often the comparison with the Pieter Baan Centrum in the Netherlands is made. However, there is a very large staff and many psychologists have also been appointed. On the basis of your previous answers to my questions in this committee, that did not seem to be the case in Belgium, or at least much less. Have there been lessons learned from the transition period in Saint Gillis and which team is going to work there? Do you agree that the partial accountability system could also be an important element in conjunction with the POCO? Thirdly, I come to the posting (TBS). It should be made compulsory at present in a limited number of situations. For example, after the conviction of a crime leading to death, including the abduction of a minor. As far as the minor is concerned, it is limited to that purpose. We know that the suspected perpetrator in this file was previously convicted of inhumane treatment with death caused by little Miguel. What is your position on the extension of the mandatory TBS to, at least, serious violence against children? Fourthly, I want to understand your position. Psychiatry had previously refused the suspected perpetrator. You have already indicated that there are insufficient places for such potentially very dangerous profiles. However, I have already heard you say that there is simply no provision for that target group. At the same time, the man could go to Ruiselede to deal with his drug profile, which was exactly the question at the time. What kind of high-security facility are you asking for exactly?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all of you for your questions and for your support for the family and, of course, I would like to join you. After such a drama, it is difficult to find the right words. However, I shall try to respond as fully and as accurately as possible to the questions submitted. I will divide my answers into seven chapters. The first concerns the criminal record and the detention of the suspect. The defendant for the kidnapping and death of four-year-old Dean was convicted on 10 February 2010 by the correctional court of Turnhout for the inhuman treatment of a child with the result of death, without killing the intention. I can confirm that during the judicial investigation into the facts of the death of toddler Miguel by the investigating judge in Turnhout a psychiatric expert was appointed, who submitted a report after the investigation. The judgment of 10 February 2010 expressly refers to the decisions of the judicial expert, both in the justification of the question of guilt and in the determination of the effective measure of penalty. The report refers to an antisocial personality disorder with low frustration tolerance. I quote: "When in a relationship the other is not docile, but contradicts him, he uses different coping mechanisms. For example, in relation to a reluctant toddler, he will react in a sadistic way, by throwing him into bed, pushing him down the stairs, putting him in a bathtub with cold water." The person was in detention on the basis of two convictions. Not only did the correct court of Turnhout pronounce ten years in prison on 10 February 2010, but the Antwerp appeal court also delivered a judgment on 8 May 2008, in which he was sentenced to six months in prison with delay. This sentence was enforceable by the sentence of 10 February 2010. During his detention, the person concerned attempted to develop a reclassification plan with the psychosocial service. Together with the psychosocial service he wrote many centers, but in the end had nowhere to go for a residential treatment that met his problems. His problems were described as too complex, too heavy, so that the applications were refused each time. Justice eventually opted to join the Believe project in Ruiselede, an internal therapeutic community on drug activity. He was also succeeded by an external center for mental health care Waas & Dender for other problems. So there has been work with this man on probation during the detention in preparation for his punishment end, as is also evident from the report of 8 June 2017 of the psychosocial service of Ruiselede. Since 1995, the penitentiary agricultural centre in Ruiselede has organized the Believe programme which lasts eight months. Prisoners convicted of drug offences and having problems with drug use or dependence may participate in that programme. The idea is to live without drugs. They are therapeutically supervised and learn to develop personal, social and living skills. They live according to a strict daily structure of compulsory employment and leisure activities to prevent them from relapse. Inmates must also undergo drug control before they are allowed to participate in the Believe programme. Drug tests are also carried out during the program itself. During his detention, the criminal execution court always ruled negative when applying for release. As of 30 May 2016, the person concerned was granted night-time permits which ran smoothly. On 18 March 2017, the person concerned was granted electronic supervision for the purpose of his punishment. On 23 December 2018, he reached the end of the sentence which meant that no control was applicable to the person concerned. So there was no follow-up or conditions anymore because of Justice because that was not legally possible. Mr Goffin, you are asking whether any measures have been taken to prohibit contact with children. Since the person concerned had served his sentence in full, there was no legal possibility of doing so. In view of the problems identified during the in-depth personality survey and risk assessment and given the limited number of positive protective factors present, the psychosocial service sought guidance on the inmate's aggressiveness and substance dependence. These were residential structures, taking into account the inmate's problems. Sentence enforcement tribunals can integrate this residential orientation into the conditions they link to the terms and conditions. If the person concerned accepts admission, he/she can then be integrated into such a residence. If it is terminated on its own initiative, then it is a violation of the conditions and the person may be re-incarcerated. However, this is not a placement, even if the stay in a specialized structure may be a mandatory condition linked to the modality given by the sentencing court, since it must always be accepted by the convicted person as one of the conditions for his conditional follow-up. The Director, on the basis of a negative opinion from the psychosocial service, had given a negative opinion on parole. The Sentence Enforcement Court wanted the detainee to take action and make progress during detention, before the external service could be requested. Many other centres were contacted in writing, but they responded either negatively or not at all. At one point, the inmate wanted only outpatient follow-up and the psychosocial service did not support it on parole. However, he was followed during his detention. In particular, he followed the "Believe" programme in Ruiselede as part of his drug problem. It was also monitored separately by the Fronta Mental Health Centre in Ruiselede. The administration has always tried to allow the person to return to society through the conditional modalities, since in this centre control and follow-up were then possible. Both the decision of the sentencing court and the decisions of the Directorate of Detention Management imposed conditions mainly related to victims and their addiction problems. Since the modalities granted by the DGD in the context of the electronic monitoring by the Penal Enforcement Court had been properly carried out, he was finally released at the end of his sentence. Finally, I would like to mention in this chapter that from his final release on 23 December 2018 until the facts of last and this week, no criminal offences were registered with him in the General National Database of the Integrated Police. Chapter 2, the provision of the Criminal Enforcement Court was introduced by the Act of 26 April 2007 and entered into force on 1 January 2012. The provision of the criminal enforcement court was therefore only part of the available criminal court after the conviction of the person concerned and the court could not therefore impose a posting of the criminal enforcement court. Nor was it possible for the government to be made available because of the limited scope of application. The judgment was delivered on 10 February under the provisions of Articles 22 et seq. of the Law of 1 July 1964, which provided for the regime of the government's posting only for criminals, recidivists and perpetrators of a number of sexual offences, which did not include those facts. Only as of 1 January 2012 does Article 34c provide for an optional provision of the criminal execution court for the offences which led to the conviction of 10 February, resulting in inhuman treatment of a minor with death, without killing the purpose. The court did not therefore have that possibility at the time of the judgment. For the sake of completeness, and not unimportant, I must add that this provision cannot or could not be imposed retroactively. The principle of non-retroactivity of the stricter penal law certainly sounds familiar to lawyers among you. Indeed, the Court of Cassation ruled in 1978 that the provision of the government was an additional penalty, a principle explicitly registered by the Law of 26 April 2007. Indeed, that law entered into force on 1 January 2012, and the reasons given by the government and Parliament at the time were that they wanted to give time to the criminal court to prepare themselves, and that they wanted to have sufficient capacity to provide for it. In view of the principle of legality, account should be taken of the time when the facts were committed. In the case of facts committed before 1 January 2012, the posting of the criminal enforcement court can only be pronounced if, at the time of the facts, the legal conditions for making the government available on the basis of the law on the protection of society were also met. My third point concerns the investigation. I have few questions about the current investigation, but I would like to say the following. The Belgian and Dutch Justice and Police are, of course, constantly in consultation, including at a meeting which started this afternoon. Taking into account the true facts of the case, it will be agreed where the defendant will be prosecuted. In view of the fact that the victim's next of kin live in our country and given the fact that our territory may have or has been the subject of criminal offences, it is, of course, not at all inconceivable and even logical that the defendant should ultimately be prosecuted in our country. Mrs De Wit, you asked if the defendant could be extradited to Belgium. I can answer that the Ghent court would like to ask for his extradition. This will be done in accordance with the procedure of the European arrest warrant. This means that the person concerned can be handed over in the most optimistic scenario in the relatively short term, which is within a two-week period. In the worst case case, there will be a procedure with even a cassation appeal if necessary. The time limit may then be 60 days with a possible extension of that period, in accordance with Article 22 of the Dutch law of surrender of 29 April 2004. However, the most important thing at this stage, first of all, of course, for the next of kin, is that it is clear as soon as possible what has happened. I come to my fourth part, which is risk assessment. There was a risk assessment by the psychosocial service, from which personality problems and associated risks emerged. The results of the risk assessment were taken into account in the advice of the psychosocial service regarding the criminal execution court and in the development of the detention path and the supervision of the person concerned. I have sufficiently outlined this when I have listed the detention course of the suspect here. A good question is being asked. A good and professional risk assessment is the beginning of and a necessary condition for customised treatment and guidance. I can add, apart from this case, the following. The central building block of risk assessment is detention planning. From day 1 of the detention, together with the inmate, a plan is being developed to work on reintegration during the detention. The psychosocial service carries out a risk assessment on arrival and, on this basis, will develop a plan with the inmate to reduce the risk of recidivism. Over the past year, the system for radicalised detainees in satellite institutions has been introduced, in close cooperation with the Communities. The aim of the coming year is to bring all the institutions to the fore. I explicitly released resources to effectively strengthen the central psychosocial service, which should manage it. The recruitments in this area are in full swing. Mr Segers, following the example of the Pieter Baan Centrum in the Netherlands, we provide a secure clinical observation centre in Haren's prison. That department should accommodate thirty prisoners who should be extra observed. In this way, the legal expert can gather much more information about the accused in complex issues, which will allow us to draw up a much better risk assessment. The Secured Clinical Observation Centre provides information to experts and allows them to make certain research actions themselves or to carry them out in consultation with the experts so that the experts can integrate the information into their report. Finally, you know that the work on the reform of the Criminal Code is currently examining the possibility of increasing the use of customised penalties through greater diversification in the penalty pallet, by providing for more alternative penalties and by introducing new penalties, such as the treatment imposed and the extended follow-up. I now come to the fifth part, which is the posting. The provision of the Criminal Court is already the subject of an in-depth review with the aim of avoiding recurrence and protecting society. After all, the experts of the new Criminal Code have written an opinion in which they call for an adaptation of the TBS system. They propose a different and more comprehensive possibility to follow up and assist those convicted after the execution of the prison sentence in working on their problems. The starting point of the proposal is that more and more prisoners, especially the sexual offenders, choose to serve a full sentence without going through a conditional release period. There is also a category of convicted persons who have never been granted a conditional release by the criminal execution court. This implies that these prisoners cannot be imposed on and cannot be followed if they have not been made available. However, in order to protect society, they certainly need to be followed up further on their return to our society. The intention is to give an incentive to the accused to work on the issue from the start of his prison term. The sentence of the extended succession will not be enforced if the sentenced person has successfully tackled his problems during his prison term. The punishment of the prolonged succession has the advantage that the convicted person is aware of the fact that he is expected to work on his problem from the moment of his conviction. Today, the prisoner only starts to do so at a later stage, especially at the time when he is eligible for punishment and prepares for a return to society. The precise modalities must still be the subject of discussions in the governments. In any case, however, the aim is to make the follow-up to a return to society much wider. Instead of working with a restrictive list of crimes for which a TBS may be imposed, as is the case so far, the judge would be much more likely to impose an extended succession as a punishment, i.e. if the judge considers that guidance, treatment or follow-up after the end of the prison sentence is necessary. In order to ensure that the judge takes this decision in an informed manner, an expert opinion is required on the defendant's mental state and any problems he may have in order to arrive at a risk assessment. These are offences that have seriously infringed the victim's life, physical or mental integrity or constitute a serious threat to public security. Finally, there will also be reflection on the mandatory imposition of treatment for certain offences, such as sexual offenders. I repeat that these are the proposals for a new draft Criminal Code. Of course Parliament, therefore, will have the final say in this. Then I come to the sixth part, namely accountability. Judges are sometimes confronted with persons who are sane, but in whom they find that the state of mind is questionable. The scope of the Internment Act of 5 May 2014 includes the person suffering from a mental disorder that has seriously affected his judgement or control over his acts. For those persons who are judged by the judge to have a bit of mental disorder but not serious enough to decide on internment, a new system of partial accountability is proposed. We have presented the idea of introducing a system of partial accountability to the experts of the new Criminal Code. We have already received an opinion from them: "The Committee considers that the reduced accountability resulting from a serious deterioration of judgment or control powers could lead to too much uncertainty about its scope and could therefore lead to a lack of coherence in the application of this provision. Indeed, a situation between total insanity and full possession of mental abilities is difficult to define as a criminal concept and threatens to lead to endless debates for the courts of assists and the courts of correction. Article 26 of the draft new Criminal Code therefore makes the choice to limit the ground of insanity as a result of the perpetrator's state of mind to those who, at the time of the facts, suffered from a mental disorder that has destroyed his judgment or control over his actions. This criterion offers the advantage of clarity, as there is a clear line to be drawn in the area of accountability." We then had a first consultation with a number of actors in the field, including two judges and psychiatrists, in order to test this opinion in practice. They confirm that it is difficult to apply the concept of partial accountability in practice. The expert committee of the new Criminal Code suggested that account should be taken of the reduced accountability of a person in the choice of the penalty. The person may be illusory due to a mental or medical condition to which he is suffering. Probational punishment, which requires appropriate treatment, should allow proper guidance to be given to the sentenced person. The preliminary draft new Criminal Code therefore introduces a three-fold distinction. Firstly, there are those responsible. They're just being punished. Secondly, there are those who are less accountable. If they are not interned, they will be punished, but in order to treat the disorder that is at the root of the facts. From this point of view, the preliminary draft proposal proposes the treatment imposed and the possibility of prolonged follow-up. This is therefore an improved and wider provision. The autonomous probation penalty may also offer training in certain cases. Thirdly, there are the insanityables. This is where the ground of insanity applies. They will therefore not be punished. They may, however, be interned if the conditions of application of the internment are met. The Committee of Experts and the actors of the field expressed the wish to increase the coherence of the criminal justice chain while at the same time considering where legislation on internment could be harmonised. Internment should be reserved for the most serious conditions, where the lighter mental disorders benefit more from treatment or proper follow-up, possibly coupled with an extended follow-up. Mr Segers, you asked a question about Saint Gillis and the POKO in Haren. There have currently been insufficient people to learn lessons from the current operation or the transition period in Saint Gillis. However, this is not forgotten. A total of three observations have taken place, the third of which is still ongoing. The framework includes several profiles, including those of psychologist, social assistant, nurse and educator. I'll get you the figures on that. The framework is not yet full. The procedure is ongoing. It is planned that the framework will be completed by September 2022, at the start of Haren's prison. The frame is calculated at 30 places. It was asked from when the penitentiary observation center will be able to start work. The site in Haren will be started in stages. There is no concrete date yet for the opening of the POKO in Haren. The staff framework is intended to be completed by September 2022. In the POKO, an investigating judge can have a defendant observed so that a more thorough investigation can take place. This is important for a good indication of complex problems. The partial accountability will enable the judge to make further tailor-made sentences. Both measures will contribute to a qualitative measurement of penalties and are therefore a good thing. It is very important that sufficient supply is developed to make this work in practice. Seventh, with regard to penalties, Mr Goffin, I agree with you that the offences committed against vulnerable persons and children in particular deserve additional protection. That is why we have expressly provided in the Sexual Penal Code for aggravated offences so that a heavier penalty may be applied if the offence is committed against a vulnerable person or a minor with, in addition, an additional possibility of aggravation of the sentence within the range of penalties for a victim under the age of 10. With regard to the new Criminal Code, a preliminary draft of Book 1 and Book 2 of the Criminal Code is being prepared, including these draft texts, which are currently under discussion within the Government. Particular attention is paid to the status of minors and the vulnerability of persons as aggravating factors. The position of trust and authority in the relationship between the perpetrator and the victim is also taken into account as an aggravating factor as well as possible new sanctions, such as the treatment imposed, the prolonged follow-up, the prohibition of residence, contact and presence in certain places in order to punish the perpetrators of such crimes more adequately and to be able to better deal with their problems. This is valid from the time the penalty is imposed until the end of the sentence. Madam President, I apologise for the long answer, but I felt that this debate should be conducted thoroughly and seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u67	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer. It was enlightening in many respects, while in others it has raised new questions. I have two comments to make. Some experts say that the gradual accountability will lead to confusion, but those same experts did not consider it necessary in the previous draft Criminal Code to maintain the posting, so I have questions. If the Netherlands can and applies that, why would it be far too difficult for us? I'm not good at that. I am also very pleased that you referred to the POKO. For colleagues, the POKO is a clinical observation centre which was established at KB in 1999 and which was then removed by Minister of Justice Onkelinx. After all, it was clear that psychosocial services could handle it themselves. I think it has been shown that this is not the case and that it is very useful that it is. I'm particularly glad there's such an observation center. Mr. Secretary, I'm reaching out to you. I do not think we should hide behind anything, that we have tasks to perform and that we should sometimes break taboos. I think that we should take up the gauntlet and that we should really, both inside and outside this committee, think together about the approach and follow-up of such profiles and about the protection of society. That must be a comprehensive approach, with risk assessment. I heard you say that this assessment ends on arrival in prison, but actually, with an additional psychiatric examination, that evaluation should be repeated regularly, even during detention. This can also help in other cases, because one can then pick up something, for example radicalisation. There must also be a treatment within the prison. Yesterday, this was easily shifted to the centres outside the prisons, but it must also be possible within the prison. The person we're talking about was a convict and not an interned. Things like the restraining order must be further developed. Information sharing is another important issue. That should be known, society is much more complex than it used to be, and social control is much more difficult, but the necessary information must actually be available to the appropriate authorities. If more people had known what his backgrounds were, the situation might have looked very different today. This is linked to the aspect of professional secrecy or the sharing of professional secrecy outside. There is a stubborn resistance at certain agencies to share some aspects, while it can be useful if those things can be shared safely. As you can see, there are so many aspects that we can work on together, linked to a posting that really needs to be preserved. I do not think there can or should be any discussion about this anymore. If one does not want to call it a posting, that one then gives it another name, but the system must be maintained. If it were to be established that no recovery or treatment is possible, I believe that we should have the courage to take measures to protect society. Then someone can't just be released at the prison gate, without conditions or succession, no matter how difficult it is. After all, there is something very wrong with our system, when I hear you say that psychiatric centres consider that the problem of the person concerned was too difficult to be treated, whereas the alternative is apparently that he should just end up on the street again, with all the problems that would have been necessary, without anyone getting flashes. Above all, we cannot accept that, Minister. I'll reach out to each of you to find something on that together, a punishment, an additional punishment, a security measure, whatever we call it. Let us think about this and find a solution so that things like this can be excluded or avoided as much as possible in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. There's a lot in your seven dots that can help a lot of inmates. I don't want to ignore that. However, I did not receive an answer which reassures me that there will be adequate future guidance for sadistic psychopaths. We are talking about an exceptional category of people who enjoy letting the other suffer as much as possible, something many experts say is impossible to cure. If you give them guidance, they're gonna lose their nerve. Then when I see all your terms, all those dots that you list nicely, I get goosebumps. After all, I see that this person will still not have to be accompanied, when that is really necessary. What about something like coercive treatment? You say that you will write in the Criminal Code that a treatment can be imposed, but that person can still say that he does not really want to do so and that he simply does not listen to what is being asked of him. This treatment has been imposed, but how can it be carried out? That's very important. I'm just going to go back to another point. You mentioned that law that came into force from 2012, but it dates back to 2007 and 2008. You say it took a while because the criminal court had to be given time to prepare and organise itself. You do not think that this is the only answer we will get? One had to prepare... If a person is convicted at that time and the criminal court still has to prepare and recruit staff, it will not be released a day later. It is not about pussy, it is about certain heavy categories. At that point, say that we need a little more time to prepare ourselves... We can already see you sending in enough legislation, with implementing decisions still to be taken. We saw this, for example, when it was about prostitution. You said at the time that you were going to regulate these other matters, but that you were going to implement them anyway. Apparently, we couldn't do that here. I can't explain that. Next, it is said in the news that Parliament is responsible for this. So that's us. However, it is up to the government, which does not come up with implementing decisions! I'm really embarrassed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u69	Madam President, I gave an answer. First of all, I have said what is apparent from the 2007 parliamentary documents. Why did the government, together with Parliament, decide not to implement that law until 2012? There were two reasons. The main reason was that there was insufficient capacity. They then talked about a master plan of punishment execution and about ensuring sufficient capacity. During that period, it was thought that the problem would be resolved by 2012. The second reason was that the criminal courts wanted to give the necessary time to implement that law. I did not judge what Parliament decided then, or the government, but that is what I found out about how the decision was made at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u70	Indeed, you did not give a value judgment, which is why I did it in your place and said that this is not to be justified. This is very difficult to bring out, to the people in the street, something that has been there for so long. That's very hard to explain. Again, you were not a minister at the time, I know that. It may be said, however, because that has been a very big gap. Things would have been different today if progress had been made at the time. I asked a number of additional questions about your television performance last night. I didn't get an answer. I understand that. You haven't been able to prepare it. However, it is very important that you look into the matter. I also did not receive an answer on the re-evaluation. Are you saying that the posting still applies 15 years after the person is released? For us, 15 years is absolutely insufficient. In the first place, such crimes are for our lifetime. Lifelong life must also be lifelong. If that man gets out, he'll have to be followed for the rest of his life. It's very simple. However, I did not receive an answer. I want to see the recidivism rates. Exactly how many long-stay sites are there for such special cases? How many inmates are on the psych ward waiting lists who never got a seat? Then I'll get to the coercive treatment. You can impose as many treatments as you like, but if a person does not want to cooperate, we do have a problem. You did answer about the restraining order with children. You said it's extended now. For various crimes, however, there is a study of how a restraining order can be imposed, or a ban on moving to a place of residence. Then I also had a question about professional secrecy. That is a very important issue. There is already a great deal of information that the Justice Department reaches and children are also being listened to. We had such a case in Vilvoorde a number of years ago. The butcher, they called that man. He's been assaulting his kids for years with cigarette butts and the like. Those kids would come to school with burns, and the CLB would've seen that, but it had professional secrecy. This is something that must be completely reversed, and in such cases that professional secrecy cannot apply. It should just be a duty to report when all kinds of things go wrong. That's the only way we can get rid of psychopaths like that. You bet there are a lot of sadistic psychopaths. They may not commit murder, but the things they do, with their families, with their children and with people from society, are at least as bad. It is therefore important that we work together and that we can come up with good solutions, with information that reaches us in good time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u71	Minister, I thank you for your very comprehensive answers because indeed, between the moment the facts were known and the moment we are living today, there have been many expressions in the press. You yourself were forced to react and that was normal. It was just as normal to take the time here in committee to speak to the federal representation, and I thank you for the very precise and factual part of the answers you provided. As I said in a reply to a previous question, the Penal Code is one of the issues of 2022. I think there is an element that is both simple to express but probably difficult to put in place because it requires the mobilisation of different actors and stakeholders. Our French friends, for example, at the time of Jacques Chirac, had incorporated the precautionary principle into the French Constitution. It is a principle that is increasingly being applied in our society today, whatever the subject matter, whatever the field. I would like that, in our forthcoming discussions on the Penal Code, this notion, which is both simple and difficult to implement, – I am very aware of it – is a little bit of a thread in our discussions. Indeed, one can have the best feelings in the world, one can nourish the greatest hopes in the world in the ability of each other to regain their place in society, one must also be very aware that there are failures also unfortunately. I think it is necessary to have this freedom of tone, that freedom of speech that must be confronted with reality and realities as we live today and which, unfortunately, are not new, in order to ensure that this notion of the precautionary principle is not suddenly rejected because it would participate in a policy that is too repressive or that would not trust the individual enough. The road will be long, but I would really like it to be part of the red threads and the elements that will guide our reflection in our future work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u72	Thank you for your comprehensive and convincing answer. You told me about the future bestaffin of the penitentiary observation center. Put that bestaffin next to that of the Pieter Baan Center. Fix that equation again. I will certainly transmit that information to you and your cabinet. For example, you spoke about one psychologist, while there are numerous psychologists and psychiatrists working at the Pieter Baan Centre. In Belgium, however, there is a kicked system. At the request of the investigating judge or courts, the observation is made after an expert investigation. That decision will only be taken consistently if we know that that observation centre is in good hands. Only then will a good assessment be made and an appropriate punishment and eventually guidance or treatment will be possible. Take a good look at that. I'll send you the data.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u73	Mrs Marghem is not here. Debates of the European Parliament 55024158C by Mrs Reuter will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u74	Minister, since the reform of the judicial cantons, the justice of peace of the city of water covers a vast territory composed, in addition to Spa, of the communes of Malmedy, Stavelot, Lierneux, Stoumont, Trois-Ponts and Waimes. In two months' time, she will not have a judge in office. The person in office will then be 67 years of age and aspire to a well-deserved retirement. What's the problem? It lies in the fact that this application for retirement was submitted a year ago but that the call for applications was only launched via the Monitor on 17 December. The length of the appointment procedure and the multiple steps it requires therefore lead to a vacancy which could be long and last for up to six months. In 2018, in a similar case concerning Verviers' justice of the peace, the possibility of resorting to alternate judges chosen from the pool of lawyers who had passed the examination had aroused the legitimate grunt of local actors in the justice system, some of whom had even threatened not to organise the communal elections. Minister, can you confirm to me that the announcement for the replacement has been published in the Monitor? Would it be possible to take stock of the procedure and the deadlines? What is the preferred solution in the meantime?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u75	Dear colleague, a vacant place of justice of the peace in the canton of Spa was published in the Moniteur on 17 December. After publication, applicants have 20 days to apply. Next, the necessary opinions are requested. Nomination files for candidates are forwarded to the Supreme Council of Justice (SCJ) within 90 days of this publication. The YSC's appointment board hears the candidates, draws up a list of appointments and forwards it to the Minister of Justice. The Minister of Justice then has 50 days from receipt of this list to make a decision. In view of these steps and the legal time-limits procedure provided for in articles 287sexies and 259ter of the Judicial Code, the new justice of the peace should take an oath in the course of June. With respect to your second question, the current incumbent will reach the age limit on March 1, 2022, but has requested to remain in service until the swearing-in of his successor. Therefore, in principle, the post will continue to be held in this canton until the oath of the new justice of the peace is given.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u76	Minister, thank you for your answers, which are rather reassuring for the canton of Spa.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u77	Madam President, Minister, I wish you my best wishes for 2022. Mr. Minister, you have recently spoken about the possibility of withdrawing permits for drivers who would be subject to unpaid road fines. These comments were relayed in both the French and Dutch-speaking press. You said the Justice FPS was working on the automation of this procedure. I would like you to clarify the thought and intention expressed. Indeed, the fine, which is in fact a criminal transaction, does not allow for the sanction of non-payment by the withdrawal of a licence. With the exception of situations of withdrawal of an immediate permit in fact – stipulated, in brief, in Article 55 and 55bis of the Road Traffic Code, which has no connection with the criminal transaction – the intervention and control of a magistrate are required for the withdrawal of a permit. Minister, could you tell me, in the proposed reform referred to, at what stage of the procedure will the withdrawal of permits be expected to take place? Since withdrawal seems to be the consequence of non-payment of a criminal transaction, is the intervention of a sitting magistrate envisaged? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u78	My colleague, I have already had the opportunity to speak on this subject in this committee – it seems to me on 20 December – in response to questions from Mrs Jadin and Mrs Mv. From Wit. As you know, this is legislation passed under the previous legislature, which has been in force since July 1, 2017. It is therefore not a new legislation, but an effective application of the legislation already in force. A royal decree will be issued explaining the formalities for the deposit and withdrawal of the driving licence. Legal intervention is provided for by law, since the law instructs the King's prosecutor to order the suspension of the right to drive. I would also like to invite you to read the reply I gave at the December 20th session. If you have any additional questions, do not hesitate to ask them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u79	Minister, thank you. I will take note of these elements of December 20th. I'll come back to you if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u80	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u81	Mrs De Wit, I can confirm that Article 3.132 of the new Civil Code facilitates the old regulation on the distances for windows, wall openings and similar works. The same applies to a oblique view. It is therefore important to read the text correctly and correctly. As a reminder, a oblique view is a window that overlooks the street or its own garden, so not directly on the adjacent plot. Before the reform, the oblique view had to be placed at a minimum distance of 60 cm from the land border. In the current text, Article 3.132 provides that the distance of 19 dm with a perpendicular line is measured at the closest point on the outside of the window to the plot boundary. What does that mean in concrete terms? The word perpendicular is important here. You must imagine a perpendicular that begins to run from the edge of the window. In other words, when looking out the window, you should look straight ahead to the back of the garden. That's the lead line. The text now states that if the perpendicular does not cross the plot of the neighbors within 1.9 m, the window is well placed. For an oblique view the imaginary perpendicular thus runs along the plot border. So even when the oblique view is placed at a distance of 1 mm from the plot boundary, the pilot line will never touch the neighbour's plot, as far as the plot boundary is also perpendicular to the rear. In that case, the distance of 1.9 m will always be respected, unless the garden is less than 1.9 m deep. In other words, the imaginary perpendicular may not cross the plot boundary until 1.9 m. The conclusion is that there is no minimum distance to be respected for oblique views when placed on a perpendicular wall on the plot boundary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic663x.u82	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which we can continue with.
