ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u1	Madam President, Minister, I am asking you about the investigative report on the practice of recruiting nurses abroad and the practice of acting offices selling nursing work to Belgian hospitals. The report was hallucinating with regard to the working conditions of foreign workers placed at work in Belgium, but also, of course, the temporary offices such as the Nexus office, named in the report, which will place nurses in hospitals at a higher cost than that normally generated by the nurses who perform their services there. I have already asked Mr Vandenbroucke about this. He also sent me back to you, of course, to respect the legislation on the right to work. I have almost the same questions I have addressed to Mr Vandenbroucke. Minister, have you seen this report? What is your reaction to both practices? Do you have any idea of the extent of investment practices such as the Nexus agency? How many nurses are involved? Is it legal to hire nurses in this form in Belgium? In fact, nurses work side by side, one hired by the hospital, under a contract of employment, the other, by an agency, like Nexus. Will you take steps to counter this practice? Do you know if it's very extensive? My second set of questions is about foreign nurse employment agencies. It is mainly the International Nursing Network. Were you aware of his practices? They were, in the report, two Lebanese nurses. According to them, hospitals pay 10 000 euros to such an agency to recruit a person, who undertakes not to get pregnant, to speak low and to stay at least two years in the hospital in question. Do you have any idea the extent of this practice? Do you have any idea how many nurses are currently under contract and placed by this agency? Are you going to take any steps in this context? Are you going to ban investment practices, as described?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u2	Madam President, Mrs Merckx, thank you for your question. I was indeed able to get to know, like you, this report and I was somewhat overwhelmed by the practices denounced in it. Unfortunately, I find it difficult to answer your various questions precisely because I have no view of the extent of the practices of employment agencies recruiting nurses abroad to work in Belgium. The reason for this is that the drafting and monitoring of rules on private and public employment agencies is a matter that has been entirely entrusted to the Regions. The same applies to the application of the rules on the granting of work permits to third-country nationals. However, it is clear, of course, that all workers have the right to fair wages and working conditions and that everyone must respect the right to work. My inspection services can also be contacted for this purpose if difficulties arise in the field. I can confirm to you that an investigation into these practices is currently under way and, as you know, I have a habit of not revealing the elements of the investigation under way, first because I cannot and then, because that is not part of my vision of things. But I can confirm that an investigation has been launched into this type of practice. Internationally, ILO Recommendation No. 157 on Nurses 67 recommends that Member States allow the migration of nurses only if there is no shortage in the country of origin. However, this is a recommendation and not a legally binding standard. Moreover, it is exclusively for the Regions in our country to develop a policy and possibly controls on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answer. I'm still a little disappointed with the different answers. Mr. Vandebroucke's coming back to you. Of course, it is also up to the regions to get involved. My colleagues in the Region have also already asked about this. Following the revelations that have taken place, the least that could be done would be for the various competent ministers to coordinate themselves on an action plan to be implemented. What has been revealed is still not the least of the things; I find that each one returns a little bit of the ball. Now, if an investigation is ongoing following the report, good! I hope that she will be thorough and I will not fail to ask you about it. Maybe we'll learn the sequels in the press. In any case, what you have quoted in relation to the European standard on labour migration makes one thing clear: there is a shortage in Lebanon. This has been demonstrated in the report. Various services have been completely closed because so many nurses leave the country. I do not see how you can also not take legislative initiatives to protect these workers in our hospitals, and especially our patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u4	Mr Minister, my question was put a while ago, but it remains topical, because the problem, or the challenge, has not diminished. It is about the lack of integration of many foreigners into the labour market. This remains a huge challenge in the three regions of this country. On average, 4 out of 10 people from outside the European Union do not have a job here today. In Wallonia, this figure is even worse, which is 5 out of 10. In the end, that's just a statistical fact. The conclusion is that it is a problem throughout the country. All too often there is a reference to discrimination. Is there discrimination in the labour market? I am sure it is, but I do not think that can be the only explanation why integration is so difficult. If that were the only explanation, and the comparison is made with other European countries, that would mean that we discriminate much worse in our labour market than other EU countries. That seems hard to believe, and I refuse to accept it. I do not think you will support that statement either. So there must be something else going on. It's definitely a double-edged knife. Perhaps in this country it is too easy for them to get away with living here without a job or without a job. And that is when the labour market is incredibly tight. Helping hands are being asked everywhere, more than we can offer. At the same time, in certain sections of the population, there is still a large arsenal of labour that we cannot get used to. On the one hand, there is a need to attract and help them and to reduce the gap towards the labour market. On the other hand, people must also be pushed in the right direction. In the expression about the stick and the root, there may be a ground of truth. In what way do you intend to resolve this? How do you intend to ensure that people who do not have a job today and are not looking for a job get into it and are encouraged to make an effort to do so? The non-EU group is over-represented in this, and that is what the question is about, but the challenge is much wider. In the Flemish, and perhaps the French-speaking media, articles were published today on a concrete measure in the context of the degressivity of unemployment benefits. They said it doesn't work. It's not hard, the drop isn't fast enough. That's why it doesn't work. We are still one of the major exceptions, even worldwide, where unemployment benefits are unlimited in time. We need to think out loud and discuss how these instruments can be reformed, so that people are really encouraged to take responsibility. Of course, we will not leave them to their fate, but everyone must accept their responsibility, even those who do not even bother to find a job today. What measures are you planning to take in this regard, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u5	The increase in the rate of employment to 80% is one of the conditions for keeping our social security affordable, but the figures for Belgium are not reassuring at all. We are facing one of the highest rates of inactive people in Europe, while our companies are crying out for labour. Of all people aged between 25 and 64 at work, 1.3 million are not at work in this country. This is almost 22% of the working population. The phenomenon is mainly due to a sharp increase in the proportion of long-term sick people, but also to the negative effects of unbridled immigration. In the case of nationalities from outside the 27 EU Member States, the rate of inactivity is 44.2%, even 59.3% for women from that category. What measures will you take to increase the involvement of non-active non-EU citizens in the labour market? What proposals were made at the second labour market conference do you think are useful in this respect? Given the above figures, is the European Commission's intention to allow further labour migration desirable for our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u6	Mr Verreyt, Mr Anseuw, thank you for your questions. It is no secret that the employment rate of people of non-EU origin in our labour market has been among the worst in Europe for many years, and that is regrettable. In its report for the year 2019, the High Employment Council paid particular attention to non-working people. It has been shown that this is a problem with many facets, requiring a multidimensional policy to mobilise the powers of each government level. That is why this issue must be approached in a serious way and not with caricatures. We have therefore decided to devote the annual employment conference to this subject this year. For two days we have been able to hear very interesting contributions and debates, which have led to very interesting proposals which will be the subject of an action plan drawn up in consultation with the social partners. During the conference, the thematic working groups stressed in particular the importance of monitoring and enforcing legislation against discrimination, but also wider against poor social practices, exploitation and working conditions. The working groups also highlight the need to better inform employers and workers about the measures and regulations already in place. For example, the option of positive action is not sufficiently known. Workers should be able to find out more easily about their rights, but it should also be easier for small employers to obtain clear information. With regard to combating discrimination in the labour market, a law has recently been adopted to strengthen the testing of the situation. We will also introduce a diversity monitoring at sectoral level in the "Various Work Provisions" Bill, asking the social partners to provide explanations or measures for a more inclusive labour market on the basis of objective data. Within the framework of the Asylum and Migration Pact, the European Commission has also taken several initiatives, including the revision of the Single Authorisation Directive and the Long-Term Residents Directive, with the aim of improving legal immigration into the EU in the fight against bottleneck professions and ensuring that the EU attracts the skills and talent it needs more than ever. However, this is primarily a matter for the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u7	Thank you for your reply, Minister. You've started a lot, but it's gone downhill fast. You started by saying that in 2019 the High Employment Council made it very clear that it is a challenge with many facets. Then, in your reply, you restricted yourself to facet discrimination. You have not mentioned anything else, such as the mobilisation of all actors, including those involved. I'm afraid your employment conference is a measure of nothing. You are shaking your head in the negative, but if you think that a number of measures concerning discrimination in the labour market will meet this challenge, which would lead us to the European average, which would be a particularly punitive achievement, then you are going astray, so you were just talking about discrimination and reducing these people to victims, and that is not necessarily the case. By making people victims, you won't make them stronger. I therefore call on you to change your shoulder and not close your eyes to discrimination in the labour market, but also not to reduce your challenge. There are people who aren't even looking for work today. If you are not looking for work, and there are many such people in this group, you are even denying yourself the opportunity to be discriminated against, since you are not even trying to do so. So we do not find work because we are not looking for work, not because we would be discriminated against. Everything starts with that. When I ask you what you will do about it, there will be a deafening silence. Obviously you will not do anything about it, but you will only take some measures against discrimination in the labour market. Which ones they will be, is still unknown. I have nothing against anti-discrimination measures, but that does not solve the problem. One must first seek work before one could be discriminated against. There are very many people from outside the EU who are not even looking for work, so they cannot even be discriminated against.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but you did not say anything that could really offer a solution. You have talked very extensively about the discrimination that companies would apply to applicants. I question them, at least in Flanders. In Flanders, companies are falling silent because they have too few workers. They cannot take on duties because they have too few workers. The band stops because there are not enough hands on the band. There are many reasons. I really don't see why a company would discriminate today if it had to cripple or paralyze its own business. I don't believe in that. I also do not believe in the solution you silently referred to, referring to the European Commission, which allows more labour migration to fill in bottleneck professions. That's not necessary either. We have 1.3 million inactive people, half of whom, in gross figures, are long-term ill, and the other half, above all, do nothing. That's 600,000 people. Let us retrain those 600,000 people so that they can fill in the bottleneck professions. Let's take activating measures to get those 600,000 people to work. That's what we need. That is what your government agreement says: increase the rate of employment to 80%, in order to keep pensions and social security affordable. For this, you will have to do more than just another measure against so-called discrimination. You're gonna have to get those people to work. I miss any kind of activating measure, both in general and applied to this target group. I believe that the first work should be done there.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u9	Mrs Samyn, after the first annual employment conference in 2021, I presented to the social partners an action plan with concrete measures aimed at a more harmonious end of the career. In a letter dated 1 June 2022, the social partners asked for more time to develop solutions that could lead to a consensus on some complex issues. I have therefore given the social partners more time to conclude the social dialogue on this essential issue. I hope that they will soon be able to formulate common positions. My action plan is limited to the employment measures within my competence, but of course I am in close contact with my colleague Karine Lalieux for pension reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u10	Mr Minister, it is like everything else in this government, we are waiting for analyses and so on. So we are looking forward to that analysis and also to your colleague Lalieux's retirement plan. In the meantime, you know my party's analysis of heavy-duty professions. The increase in the retirement age and the reduction of the single payment unemployment scheme (SWT) have pushed many people who performed heavy work into the illness or disability. They've literally worked crooked. These measures were taken for savings reasons, without any accompanying measures. It is only very recently that your Minister Vandenbroucke, with his back-to-work coordinators, has been trying to do something or something about that painful situation, something or something, but not nearly enough. Asking whether anyone can practice their profession until his 67th is answer them. Of course that is not possible, especially for the heavy professions. In addition, entrepreneurship figures show that, for example, muscle and joint problems are clearly given the upper hand in the case of long-term illness. There will therefore need to be much more investment to make work more workable for certain categories. This will require a greater effort on measures to prevent workers from paying a heavy physical price for their long-term work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u11	Minister, in October 2020, Médor published an investigation denouncing chain and overhead subcontracting within SNCB and Infrabel for locomotive maintenance. This subcontracting involves social dumping. Moreover, an investigation into social fraud and forgery in writing would be under way. This subcontracting also poses safety problems: the personnel present on the yards not always speaking French or Dutch, it is difficult to enforce the safety instructions and to determine whether everything has been done in the rules. These problems were also identified by the CSC Transcom. A new article appeared on the National 4 site, reporting multiple problems related to subcontracting on the construction site opened by Infrabel in Louvain-la-Neuve. It describes the situation of workers of foreign nationality working under difficult conditions, sometimes without adequate equipment, and for derisory wages, they say. The subcontracting company Belgium Full Services, which hires these workers, seems, according to National 4 information, to be an empty shell: the company declared 4.2 FTEs in 2020, while it is capable of mobilising teams of eight people on certain construction sites – or even more, according to the workers. Infrabel as a public enterprise must, of course, be absolutely exemplary in respect of the social law and working conditions of workers, including subcontractors. Minister Gilkinet was obviously questioned about this by my colleague Nicolas Parent. Minister, have your services been made aware of this situation in Louvain-la-Neuve? Have any measures been taken after the release of this information? Has the inspection come down to the scene? Has an investigation been initiated by the Labour Auditorate into allegations of "empty shell"?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u12	Mrs Cornet, as you know, the inspection services are responsible for combating all forms of social fraud, including social dumping, whether in the context of their own mission, borough units or specific dumping actions. On 23 March, the Labour Inspection Service Control of the Social Laws of the SPF Employment received information describing essentially a risk of safety at work. As a result of the information received, a first report was prepared on March 23, 2022, warning the auditor of the work of the intelligence received and the first searches carried out in the various databases. Subsequently, an inspection was carried out at the workplace on 28 April, with the collaboration of INASTI, ONSS and the Labour Inspectorate Control of social laws. Infringements have indeed been noted, and minutes have been drawn up and forwarded to the labour auditorate. You will understand that since an investigation is being conducted with the Labour Auditorate, I cannot speak further on this particular matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u13	Thank you very much, Minister, for this information. I am pleased to note that the information published has been used by the inspection and that a follow-up is under way at the labour auditorate. I hope you keep us informed. I am surprised that Infrabel claims that everything was in order when she checked the information. I think there is something to compare the elements and to confront them with each other because, if I have seen correctly, Infrabel informed the minister that all the workers were in good standing. I note that your commitment to social dumping – as you have stated on many occasions – joins that of the Minister responsible for Mobility, Mr Gilkinet, who recalled that these elements would be included in the performance contract between the Belgian State and Infrabel as well as in the public service contract. This dumping in the head of a public company must be the subject of our utmost attention. I thank you in advance for keeping us informed of the follow-up that will be given by the Auditorate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u14	Since Ms Kattrin Jadin had no news, her question No 55028424C became moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u15	Madam President, Minister, the employment deal has already been knocked off three times within the government. Good third time, you'd think. But your good colleague, Vincent Van Peteghem, said that this work deal will not be enough to reach or reach the employment rate of 80% by 2030. However, that was one of the main objectives of this government. According to your colleague Van Peteghem, much more needs to be done to make work pay more. He's right. You also think he's right? Only then will it be very interesting, because you will say that this work deal is not satisfactory and does not propose so much about activating measures. Are you satisfied with the work deal yourself? Will that do? Or will you work on another package of measures, as Minister Van Peteghem suggests? This could make working in this country even more attractive and interesting. Of course, this work deal doesn't. Many experts say that this deal will not activate many people, at most some things in the regulation modernise or adapt to reality. What additional package of activating measures are you planning? How do you see the further implementation of the work deal? What's the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u16	Mr Minister, a day or ten ago, the nuclear cabinet landed to everyone's surprise, including mine, with the 'great' labour deal. It was actually announced for the third time. The first time was in October when the budget was drawn up, that was the preamble. In February, the details came for the social partners to launch the consultation. Now there's an agreement within the government. However, the objective of the coalition agreement was fairly clear, i.e. to increase the efficiency rate to 80% throughout the country. Measures would also be taken to activate the labour market. That was the goal, but when I read what is coming out of it, it seems to me that this goal is anything but achieved or only very small steps are taken in that direction. It simply remains uninteresting for a large part of the inactive population to go to work. Is the employment deal limited only to what has appeared in the media? What timeline does your cabinet provide for its introduction? What will you do to bring both employers and employees into line, after all, both were very unhappy about the employment deal and were negative about getting them back on track? How do you see the target of an activity rate of 80% achieved by the measures proposed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u17	Mr Anseuw, Mr Verreyt, I have indeed taken note of the various opinions on the draft law on various provisions relating to work, both of the social partners within the National Labour Council and of the Data Protection Authority and the Council of State. With my administration, we have, of course, carefully examined the various comments and analysed how we can respond to them. Changes have been made, but it is clearly not a question of rewriting the text, and the most important measures are, of course, those submitted to the social partners. The draft law will soon be submitted to the committee so that we can have a thorough debate on it. Mr Anseuw, I am also convinced that other measures will be necessary to achieve our objective, particularly in the tax area and in the regions, which are responsible for activation, but also in relation to the different target groups. That is the aim of the annual Employment Conference. Last year's theme was 'older workers' and this year's theme 'people with a migration background'. We are therefore fully engaged in other measures, for example in the field of taxation, but also in the area of labour law and labour policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u18	Minister, you are working on a number of measures, but it is still a matter of looking at what measures are involved. You have now appointed two target groups to which you have already devoted an annual employment conference. So you have already used up half of your potential target groups, because if you only organise one employment conference a year and a legislative period does not last forever - in this case it is a good thing - then the concerns remain. You have just explained what you will do with this second target group, the integration into the labour market of non-EU citizens, but if you reduce the challenge in this respect to a number of measures relating to discrimination, that will be a blow in the water. That is clear from the answer you have given. It was fairly detailed, but also very one-sided. Well, then I guess I'm worried and I don't have that much faith in it. I hope that you will soon come up with concrete measures that we can debate, concrete things that are not in the employment deal that has now been knocked off. As you confirmed yourself today, we will not be able to do so alone, quite the contrary. I hope that there will be some more sense of urgency within the government to come up with bold measures to encourage people to go to work, because that is not the case today. I fully agree with you that this should also be possible in the field of taxation, but I hope that something will really happen that will make a difference for the better, because that is much needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u19	Minister, I share that hope. I still hope that the work deal, its follow-up or the measures that have yet to follow, but have not yet been communicated, can make the difference. I hope the mountain really didn't give birth to a mouse. I also hope that we will be able to get the workers and employers, who are currently unable to agree with the government's proposal. After all, the measures announced at the moment are merely drinks for what we really need, in order to increase our effectiveness. In my view, no measures have yet been taken to activate the very large group of inactive people. Little or nothing is still being done to tackle long-term unemployment among young people, particularly in Brussels and Wallonia. The difference between working and not working has not been reduced. This may be reflected in the measures announced in the field of taxation, but at the moment the difference between working and not working has not been reduced. It is therefore an illusion, in my view, to believe that these measures will achieve an effective rate of 80%. It is an illusion for me to believe that these measures will save our social security. I also believe that it is an illusion to believe that these measures will allow us to keep our pensions affordable, let alone increase them to EUR 1,500 net. However, that was the government's mission and promise, in which, in my view, we are still failing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u20	"Mr. Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u21	Following almost 90,000 signatures of the petition initiated by the unions. We will soon receive these in this Parliament. Minister, how do you respond to the demands of the workers who came to Brussels this Monday, 20 June? To what extent do you support an amendment to the 1996 Act? What is the government's position in the face of union demands?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u22	Madam President, I shall reply in both languages and in the most succinct way possible to the questions put to me. With regard to the EUR 30 million envelope, the government has taken a position on its distribution, in the absence of a proposal from the social partners. The aim is to encourage employers to make more accurate compensation for the movements made by employees using their private vehicle. This incentive will take the form of a tax credit for employers who increase the reimbursement. With regard to the 1996 law, I think that the text amended in 2017 makes the discussions between the social partners and the conclusion of a very complicated interprofessional agreement. It is therefore necessary, together with the social partners, to see what can be done. Tomorrow there will be important hearings in this committee and I think it is better to wait for these exchanges and their possible outcome. With regard to other measures to support purchasing power, you learned about it a week ago. These include the oil cheque, which increases from EUR 200 to EUR 225, the extension of reduced VAT on gas and electricity until the end of the year, or the correction of injustice for condominiums benefiting from collective heating, which will now also benefit from this reduction in VAT. I would also like to recall the extension of the extended social tariff for gas and electricity and the reduction of excise duties on the various fuels. In total, the government decided a further €1.4 billion a few days ago. We are implementing this as soon as possible, as a first phase has already been voted on by your Parliament on the increased fuel check.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u23	Mr Minister, tomorrow we will indeed have a long exchange, but above all we will listen to the bearers of this petition in order to unblock the wages. You did not address this part of the questions in your answer. We really need to hear what these people have to say first. That's what I did on June 20 when I was on the street to hear the workers. We will hear them again tomorrow and we will continue the parliamentary work on the basis of these elements and the legitimate demands of workers to be supported in their purchasing power.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u24	Two months ago, Minister, I asked you to implement the passage from the government agreement on the holiday of the Länder. In the coalition agreement, which you undoubtedly know, it says literally that "the Länder are given the opportunity to turn a holiday into a paid holiday." This would be organized without any additional budgetary costs. You have drawn up a draft of KB on this subject. You submitted this to the National Labour Council (NAR). We haven't seen the design yet, but the NAR's advice is. This does not entirely comply with the provisions of the coalition agreement. It does entail additional budgetary costs and the Länder were not involved either. This proved to be the case when my colleague Chris Janssens in the Flemish Parliament questioned Prime Minister Jan Jambon. The choices in the design KB were also quite absurd. In fact, it was chosen to grant it to the Region in which the employee is employed. Of course, we think this is absurd, because a holiday is rather a cultural and a community event. The choice also poses many workers and commuters with practical problems. The opinion was therefore rather critical in this respect, as regards the employers' side. Minister Verlinden told us that you would do your homework again and make adjustments before you go to the Council of Ministers. Since we're almost in July, I'm asking you about a state of affairs. In the meantime, do you have a new design KB available? What choices are made? In the meantime, was there any consultation with the Länder? If so, with whom and what were the different views? Has there been any consultation with the Minister of Civil Service and with the Ministers responsible for Institutional Reforms? Have they given their agreement yet? When are you taking the KB to the Council of Ministers? In March, you spoke of "soon." That is why I had the hope that before this 11th July it would already be in jugs and cans. Can the Länder turn a holiday into a paid holiday this year, because 11 July is approaching with raging strides? So I'm very curious about your timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u25	Mrs Pas, I have indeed submitted to the National Labour Council a draft royal decree granting private workers an additional holiday. Following the advice of the social partners, the amended draft royal decree was discussed in April in an inter-kabinets working group. It was then decided to send a letter to the governments of the Flemish, Walloon and Brussels-Capital Regions asking whether they would like to turn their holiday into a paid holiday and, if so, to what day they prefer. The amended draft royal decree was annexed to that letter and the written governments were asked to provide an answer by the end of June. I'm waiting for the different answers to move on.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is at the end of June, so if I understand correctly, you have not yet received a reply from any government. Then I suggest we ask there sometime to do that quickly. I fear the timing for this July 11th, but the miracles are not over yet. I will follow this closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u27	Further questions and exchanges are expected to be a bit sporty, as colleagues are still sitting on the Mobility Committee. I do not know if it is Minister Gilkinet who holds them in breath like that. It is therefore a little complicated to move on to the debate. If the people concerned, namely Mrs Rohonyi and Mrs Cornet, agree to wait until Mrs Vlindevoghel arrives, that would allow me to give the floor to Mr Verreyt for his question No 55028576C because Mrs Vanrobaeys is also in another committee for a debate. So Mr. Verreyt is going to save time today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u28	Madam President, I would like to put my question to the President-in-Office. 55028726C to turn to a written question, because it is linked and the colleagues are not here anyway. Excellent as I am!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u29	As Mrs Vanrobaeys and Ms Moscufo were not there, Mr Anseeuw proposed that his question No 55028726C should be transformed into a written question. I don't think anyone will mind. I see it's in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u30	Mr Verreyt, thank you for your question. The Government has decided not to extend the temporary unemployment system of force majeure corona/Ukraine, as applicable until 30 June 2022. The same applies to the temporary measure to increase temporary unemployment benefits from 65% to 70% of the normal average gross wage. From 1 July, the measures taken will facilitate the transition from the temporary unemployment system to the traditional temporary unemployment systems. This transitional arrangement will expire on 31 December 2022. For example, there are transitional measures which involve administrative simplification and which should speed up payment of benefits for temporary unemployment. An example is the exemption from the use of a control card. In addition, the system of temporary economic unemployment for the employer is considerably relaxed until the end of this year. This reduces the minimum period of notification for recourse to economic unemployment. There will also be adapted conditions to be recognised as a firm in difficulty so that more economic unemployment can be called upon for servants. Finally, it will be possible to suspend the implementation of the contract of employment for longer periods without a compulsory week of work resumption.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. This question had been put to the government about a number of measures, but I thank you for the explanation and for maintaining a number of transitional measures. It is good that some account is still being taken of the fact that companies, which have to move from a very flexible system to a slightly less flexible system, are faced in the current situation with production processes that are severely disrupted, not by corona nor by the direct consequence of the war in Ukraine, but by the lack of raw materials and/or people or timing that is not tailored to others. I think it is still necessary to take some account of this, but without the very flexible arrangement that applied during the corona period.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u32	Minister, I wanted to ask you about the occupational health record related to the occupational health department, specifically the transmission of information in the event of a change of business. The same applies to retirement, to the treating doctor or any specialist, at any time in the life of the worker. According to the general principles of the Code of Welfare at Work, the worker's health record is the memory of the relevant information concerning a worker and enables the preventive counsellor and/or the occupational doctor to exercise health surveillance. Collectives, including the asbestos victims, are asking us about the obligation to transmit this professional file to the new prevention counsellor in case of a change of business but also to the doctor treating the worker. Indeed, we all know that contamination with harmful substances is likely to turn out a few years later. Today, data transfer works according to the assessment of the prevention advisor and/or at the explicit request of the worker. Minister, how, therefore, without a history of occupational health, can we make the strict link between contamination and a disease that occurs twenty years later? What happens, exactly from one company to another in the event of a change of employer? Are the information transmitted automatically? Are there any information that is systematically transmitted from the company's doctor to the attending physician or to any other specialist? Do you think the current transmission mechanics are effective? Can you quantify the number of files that are actually transmitted?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u33	Member, the Code of Work Well-Being provides a number of provisions that facilitate the exchange or transfer of the worker's health record and certain data from this file. However, the exchange of health record data and the transfer of an individual health record always require the prior consent of the worker concerned. If an employer changes an external prevention service, the employer must transfer all documents, including health records, to the employer or to the new external prevention service within three months of the change in external service in order to ensure continuity of service. If a worker changes employer, there is currently no automatic transfer. However, if the doctor at work of the new employer finds that there is a health record for that worker in another undertaking, he shall, subject to the consent of the worker concerned, request the transfer of the health record to the prevention department of that undertaking. The occupational doctor of the prevention department of the former employer is, for his part, obliged to comply with this request, either by transferring the documents or by providing a true copy of the documents. Since 2019, the Code requires the occupational doctor to systematically transmit the health record to the doctor treating the worker whenever he leaves the company, in particular in the event of dismissal or voluntary departure, but also at the time of the pension. This allows for better monitoring of the worker's health status since the health record data, including exposure data, are kept in the same place regardless of the worker's career development. In addition, the occupational doctor may, if he considers it necessary, transmit the health record data to the doctor treating the worker, whenever the worker has been in contact with him in the context of health surveillance. This may be the case during a health assessment where abnormal values are observed, during a pre-work visit or during spontaneous consultation. In my view, the mechanisms for transferring the health record or information on the health status of the worker provided for in the Code of Welfare at Work are sufficiently effective. These mechanisms ensure a smooth transfer of the necessary information while respecting medical confidentiality. They shall ensure that information on the health status of the worker is kept at the most appropriate place and that the attending physician has better access to certain data on the health status of the worker related to his or her working environment. Finally, I would like to inform you that my administration does not have figures on the number of health records that are transferred annually between different physicians.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u34	Thank you, Minister. This is a maze of information that I think I will understand by rereading your answers several times, not because you have not been clear, but because it is an extremely complex subject. On the issue of consent, I believe that since we passed this law, which provides protection against discrimination in health matters and precedes current work, this could make sense. I wonder why there would ultimately be no consent, except for sometimes somewhat problematic reasons not to want to mention, rightly, for fear of discrimination, a health situation. I think that the lack of data poses another problem that is not to be able to observe a space, a geographical area within which there would be a systematic follow-up of health records. Nevertheless, I understand that GDPR is a necessity and always goes through it. I will therefore reread your answers because it seems to me that there is a desire for automation, or in any case facilitation, and I think this is really very important for this particular case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u35	Minister, some changes have already been made in the area of travel allowances. I am thinking, among other things, of the sectoral agreement of the household aid agencies. This does not prevent the decision taken on 3 June to increase the exempted amount of mileage allowances for professional movements from 37 to 40 cents per kilometre, retroactively until March. There will also be a tax incentive for employers to encourage the highest possible remuneration for those who have to move professionally within the exempted flat rate. The aim is, of course, to compensate for rising fuel costs for workers such as cleaning aids and those in home care who use their own car for professional travel. On the other hand, there is a budget of EUR 30 million. We remember that the social partners had not reached agreement on this, hence my questions. Mr President, can you explain in detail the practical arrangements for implementation? Should this be negotiated by sector, or can an employer receive this discount immediately? In the meantime, I know that this discount also applies to non-profit organisations in the sector, which I do find important information. How are employers informed? What will you do in terms of sensitisation, so that as many workers as possible, who now have to adjust to work, will actually feel that difference?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u36	Mrs Vanrobaeys, as you know, our government has decided to encourage employers to compensate more correctly for the movements that workers have to make with their private car. This incentive will take the form of a tax credit that will be granted to employers who strive sustainably for the number of kilometres reimbursed by the State to its officials. For more details on taxation, and in particular on the calculation of that tax credit, please contact my colleague, the Minister for Finance. I can tell you that this tax credit will only be granted if the increase is the result of a change in a collective agreement, a sectoral or business agreement, an employment regulations or the contract of employment. That amendment should take place in 2022 and should be applied without limitation in time. I call on the sectors to negotiate an increase to ensure fairer compensation. Paying the right price is a right for employees and a duty for employers. I have no doubt that this will contribute to a preference for more reasonable movements and more environmentally sound alternatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think it is important that this should be done collectively, although it can also be done by contract of employment. As many people as possible should be able to enjoy it. It is more interesting if an entire sector is involved in providing equal compensation. I believe that this is also the best way to ensure fair competition between the various companies in that sector. I also hope that as many sectors as possible that are in that case covered by professional relocations will take this into account, so that these people no longer have to adjust to work. We're gonna have to work wages for us. I actually think it's punishment that these people have had to pay extra money in the last few months to get to work. I hope that this will be an incentive to provide fair travel allowances. Of course, more environmentally sound alternatives can also be sought. I think about the bike, but also about public transport. This may need to be included with the regions. There are always fewer buses, and some people still have to move to all kinds of corners of the country to reach the families. I do not think that is clear at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u38	Minister, a recent international survey by SD Worx of 10,000 employees, including 1,098 Belgians, still shows that 43% of workers consider that the nature of their work allows telework and that 46% of their employers also allow homework. In addition, 79% of those interviewed indicated that telework would help them to combine work more effectively with private life. Not only the personal benefit of a better work and private balance comes to the fore, but also the increased productivity for individual tasks and cooperation with others. However, they also point to disadvantages. For example, 54 % would dare to continue working for some time, while 54 % also experience pressure to always be accessible. At the same time, 24 % experience more control, something I have already asked a question about. In addition, 20% experience more mental problems, 34% lack social contact with colleagues and 34% experience physical and ergonomic problems. This is why SD Worx calls on employers to invest time in a practical work organisation and to establish good agreements on teleworking. Well, that's a lot of money, too. Teleworking is in the top five reasons for employees to opt for a particular employer or an organisation and remain committed. This is particularly important in these times of tight labour markets. However, there is little movement in the framework of teleworking. The study shows that more than half of the workers experience pressure to always be reachable. Progress has been made on the labour deal, which includes the right to deconnection. Can you give us a state of affairs and, above all, a timing? Possible disadvantages according to the survey are longer working, mental problems, employer control and also physical and ergonomic problems. The social partners had committed themselves to considering whether the existing framework for the different forms of telework could be streamlined and updated. What is the state of the negotiations and when can we expect steps forward? This is in the interests of workers and employers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u39	Mrs Vanrobaeys, the draft law implementing the employment deal provided for a right of deconnection for employers who employ 20 or more people. At present, legislation requires employers to organise consultations on this subject with regular intermediaries in the Committee on Prevention and Protection at Work, without any binding force being given to these provisions. The new provisions strengthen the current obligation. They require that the modalities of the right to deconnection, the use of digital devices in order to respect rest periods and the balance between private and professional life should be the subject of a collective agreement at company level or should be included in the employment rules in the absence thereof. The draft law will soon be submitted to the committee so that we can have a thorough debate on it. Discussions on the evaluation of the current rules on teleworking and deconnection in the National Labour Council are ongoing. Pending the opinion, I cannot provide any information on the content of the discussions between the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u40	Minister, I look forward to the debate here on the labour deal and on that right to deconnect. This is already an important step forward. More than half of the people say they experience pressure to always be accessible. To keep it viable and sustainable in the long term, this is an important step forward. However, I still regret that these negotiations in the National Labour Council continue to drag on for so long. There's still no expenses. I have the impression that employers have said from the outset that they would let it go on for two years to see what it gives, and then perhaps provide some framework. People have no compensation, all bear the costs themselves and also bear the costs themselves. I was talking about surveillance. That also causes mental pressure. There is now a pilot project on homework at KBC. I see all this evolving in a direction that I do not like at all, away from frameworking, away from existing labour law. More framing is needed so that teleworking can be done in a good way and that can also be maintained in the long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u41	Minister, the Institute for Equality between Women and Men recently published new figures. There were 16% more reports of gender discrimination in 2021 than in the previous year. Most of these reports - 34% - concern gender discrimination in the workplace. It is mainly about working conditions and wages, but also about access to employment and the end of the employment relationship. What I find striking is that almost one in three reports related to the workplace concern pregnancy or motherhood. This means that women are still discriminated against when they have or have children. Being a mother is still an obstacle to women's careers. The Institute fears that this is just the tip of the iceberg, because many women do not dare to take the step towards a report or complaint for fear of dismissal. In addition, there is also a 37% increase in the number of reports on sexual harassment at work by 2020, despite the increase in telework. That, too, is an argument for a good framework. There is an arsenal of legal means to combat gender discrimination, but when one sees the high number of reports, there is little concrete improvement in the workplace. How do you intend to step up the fight against gender discrimination in the labour market? What is the status of the project that you would realise together with the social partners to combat gender discrimination? Do you have any explanation for these rising numbers? You indicated last year that you would work with Mrs Schlitz to improve the rules on the protection of victims and witnesses against reprisals. Can you give us an update? The ratification of ILO Convention No. 190 falls within the competence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In this context, important steps could be taken forward, but I do not know whether you have had contact with the other policy cell to find out what the state of play is and whether we will be able to ratify this treaty effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u42	Mrs Vanrobaeys, thank you for your questions. As you know, one of my actions in the fight against discrimination against women in the labour market is the transposition of the European directive on work-life balance for parents and carers. The main aim of this Directive is to increase the implication of male workers in the care of children and other dependent family members, and thus to increase the labour market participation of women. Another important issue is the gender pay gap. In the light of a pending initiative at European level, I am in the process of evaluating the existing Belgian pay gap regulation. To this end, close cooperation will also be established with the social partners, with the Secretary of State responsible for Gender Equality, Equal Opportunities and Diversity, and with the Institute for Equality between Women and Men. Together with Mrs Schlitz, we are indeed working on a draft law on better protection against adverse measures. The dossier is currently being submitted to the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority for their opinion. With regard to ILO Convention No. 190 the FOD WASO prepared the file and forwarded it to the FPS Foreign Affairs in December 2021. I refer to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is responsible for the rest of the procedure, including contacts with the various Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u43	Thank you for your answer. I will address the Foreign Minister, currently the Prime Minister, because it has been a very long time. However, the ILO Convention provides concrete tools to tackle gender discrimination and harassment in the workplace. Even with telework, that goes on. Psychosocial well-being during telework is an important element. It is, of course, a good thing that you are making progress and that people are protected if they complain or make a report, so that they should not be afraid of any repercussions. A number of measures are now being taken, including to improve the reconciliation between work and private life and to increase the involvement of men, but I still find it shocking that in 2022 one third of the complaints concern discrimination against pregnant women or mothers. I do not know whether all these problems can be resolved through legislation, but there are still very important steps to be taken. In the field of sensitisation and awareness, every talent is needed in the workplace, respected one's gender identity, and everyone should be able to shine without being discriminated against.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u44	You can return to the written version, if you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u45	That's a good idea indeed, so I can have a drink.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u46	Mrs Vanrobaeys, with regard to the number of posted workers, I will give you various graphs. My services can confirm the overall upward trend of the number of unique persons seconded to Belgium. You will find this in graph 2. The volume in days that this group represents can be found in Graph 3. The number of people who are not EU citizens and are posted to Belgium can be found in Figure 4. The number of Ukrainian and Belarusian nationals can be found in Graph 5. The report on socio-economic monitoring of the labour market and origin, prepared by the FOD WASO and Unia, will include a chapter on this subject that the researchers concerned have worked out with Myria. The final version of the report will be published in the autumn. Those legally employed within the EU may also be legally seconded from any Member State to another Member State. The Action Plan on Social Anti-Fraud 2022 therefore also focuses on third-country nationals in the fight against social dumping. In their action plans for 2022, the specialised teams for social dumping and ECOSOC of the RSZ inspection also focused on seconded third-country nationals and Brazilian fillières, in close cooperation with the Monitoring of Social Laws. These dumping controls are used at the top four Member States which send third-country nationals to Belgium. These are Portugal, Poland, Lithuania and Slovenia. Safety in the workplace is and remains one of my priorities, as you know. However, I repeat what I said in plenary, the harsh reality is that we can never rule out and/or prevent all situations with regard to malicious individuals who lead workers and self-employed people to work in unsafe situations. We have to look at posting in a nuanced manner. Posting is important for the proper functioning of the European single market and for the free movement of services within that market. In practice, posting offers an opportunity to address bottlenecks in the labour market through subcontracting, in order to reach the necessary workforce through a foreign company. A company does not have to open vacancies itself. However, we note that the majority of posted third-country nationals are employed in the construction sector. This sector is particularly in need of skilled labour, to which the job seekers in Belgium, with or without a migration background, often do not meet. Moreover, the secondment is an important function in our economy and in other countries within and outside the European Union. Of course, it is not the intention, for example, to neglect the relatively numerous Ukrainians, who are currently working in our country through the posting of workers. It is therefore more sensible to regard posting as a matter of fact, to tackle the abuses in the system and to use it to increase employment for people of foreign origin. This was in particular the commitment of the Employment Conference which took place on 14 and 15 June 2022 and from which the necessary decisions will be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I agree with you that posting should be looked at in a nuanced manner. The only thing we see now, however, is that it is also a way of organizing social dumping here and making construction workers from all over the world, through this employment of third-country nationals, appear to be self-employed here and often allow them to live in inhumane conditions. Of course, the inspection services focus on this. However, the harsh reality is that all situations can never be excluded. On the other hand, measures can be taken to improve the situation in the workplace. I know that the Oosterweel connection yard has taken certain measures to combat social dumping and increase safety in the workplace. Among other things, everyone there, regardless of whether they are self-employed or an employee, whether or not they are posted, must undergo eight-hour training on safety regulations. There have also been agreements on communication. If people don't understand each other and there's danger, it's obviously hard to get everyone to safety. There is also a check-in and a check-out at the yard. I know that the check-in is rather difficult for employers, but apparently it helps to know who is at the yard and at least to comply with safety standards. We are now a year after the dramatic accident in Antwerp in which a school collapsed. In this context, someone indicated that he was working at that yard as a bogus self-employed person or even in black, but that he was registered as an occasional passerby in the pv. That was a very dramatic accident in which people died and which left other people with permanent injuries, so that they can no longer work. They are left behind without compensation and I think we should avoid such dramatic situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u48	Madam President, Minister, last Thursday I intervened in the plenary session on the situation at the airport. The airport's on fire. Not only in Belgium, but in many countries the liberalisation of the whole sector is a major problem and a major cause of what is happening. I will give a summary of the various questions, which highlight different aspects. My first set of questions was asked in response to an action by the baggage workers. They took action because there had been a work accident and because people had to work hours before they got breaks. These people have to work 9.5 hours in a row, sometimes from 4.30 a.m. to 2 p.m. without a break. These situations are unacceptable. We need to do something about this urgently. How are you looking at the situation at the airport today? Will all flights at Brussels Airport be able to leave this summer? There have also been actions at Schiphol Airport. An agreement was reached at Schiphol Airport with the owner of Schiphol Airport. He makes sure that a number of matters are settled around people's working conditions. All employees at the airport have received, among other things, a 5 euro storage and a number of improvements in the transport and facilities of drinks and so on. What do you think of this idea? Can you help with this? The second problem is also a major responsibility for you, as Minister of Labour, namely the situation at Ryanair. I've asked you questions about that before. Ryanair employs 600 staff in Belgium, but does not even have its own personnel service. How can it be that in a country like Belgium employers can work with so many employees without a staff service? This has a lot to do with the workers. Sick or pregnant workers didn't get their paperwork in order during the corona crisis. What will you do about it? You have a very great responsibility in that regard. These people have also taken action for 3 days over the past weekend. Can you do anything about the use of false self-employment at Ryanair to improve the situation of the staff? Several complaints are also received at the social inspection on Ryanair. Have the inspection services already acted? Can you say something about what's going to happen to that? A third set of questions concerns the three-day strike at Brussels Airlines. I've been there, too. The staff, and so do I, are very concerned about the travelers. After all, they make flights that are on the verge of working and rest periods. These rest periods are laid down in international agreements, but I heard from the staff that staff rest periods are barely maintained. The trade unionists have been very patient. They've already done an action. They have tried to sit around the table with the employer very much, but they continue to refuse to solve the problems. Yesterday I heard the employer say in the news: we are going to sit around the table again at the end of August. I think that's quite a punishment after three days of action. One should dare, after three days of action. Those people can't do it anymore. We're out. Their job becomes too heavy, with all the consequences for the travellers. Therefore, the management of the company has to face up to the demands of the staff. This is also important for travellers. If the employer does not want to do anything to solve the problems, it is also disdainful to the many travellers who have the right to go on holiday. The Belgian government has given EUR 290 million to Brussels Airlines. We have already said that this should not be a blank cheque. We have already said that social measures must be taken against this. If government money is given to a company, it cannot do so without linking social conditions to it. I had already said that there should be no redundancies, for example. Working conditions must therefore be regulated. How will you deal with the problems with Brussels Airlines? What do you think about the idea that there should be an emergency plan for the big vacation? That's next weekend. I heard Mr Feist on the radio this morning saying that 4 million travellers are expected during the holiday period. We believe that these people should be able to go on holiday, but then we must ensure that the 20,000 people who work there can do so with good working conditions. Can you ensure that there is a dialogue with the trade unions and the operator to draw up an emergency plan which will ensure good working conditions and enable travellers to start their well-deserved holidays?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u49	"Mr. Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u50	Finally, I am aware of the difficulties associated with the lack of harmonisation of social and fiscal rules in Europe, which would make it possible to provide a genuine response to the Ryanairisation of the aviation sector, characterised in particular by the outsourcing of employment contracts. For example, Ryanair's contracts are concluded under Irish law. However, a 2017 ECJ judgment recognised the right of Ryanair's staff to be applied to Belgian labour law, which is more protective than Irish law. Has this decision led to the requalification of certain employment contracts on the basis of the usual place of work of the staff? If not, why? Don't you think that there is an opportunity to partially remedy the situation?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u51	Minister, we are facing strike movements in the air sector (Ryanair and Brussels Airlines). These companies have intriguing behaviors. In Ryanair, for example, wages fall while the company regained normal business activity after the crisis. We have already had the opportunity to discuss in this committee the situation of Ryanair workers faced with the difficulty of having an interlocutor, with many disrespects. This lack of respect is very worrying and, Mr.Minister, I find that it can never be tolerated. This company after insulting the unions calling them "small mickeys" (it's crazy as an expression!!!) made an unacceptable communication to passengers whose flights are cancelled: "Your flight was cancelled due to an unnecessary strike by a Belgian union". While the company had been aware of the strike for several weeks, it methodically organized the discontent of the passengers, even though it is in their interest to move safely with staff who have been able to take a rest. Mr Minister, do you think that this phase is compatible "your flight was cancelled because of an unnecessary strike by a Belgian trade union" with respect for the right to strike? Have you taken an initiative following your meeting with the trade unions to put social dialogue back on track? I know you meet them because you told me the last time I asked you. You had announced that you would not tolerate cowboy practices and that you would be the sheriff on their way: did you recall the terms of the Belgian social concertation to Ryanair's management? While strike movements for unworthy, exhausting working conditions have been announced, frantic working rhythms at Brussels Airlines have been announced. It was reported that the CNE and SETCA filed a complaint with the social inspectorate for obstruction of the right to strike. According to the unions, the company voluntarily sent staff members on long mails when they announced that they would strike in order to prevent them de facto from disconnecting. Have you been kept informed? Are these practices legal? Has the inspection been followed? Do you have any information to share about possible irregularities or even sanctions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions about strike actions and the situation at our airports and in some airlines, whether at home or abroad. They attest to the tensions within the sector, which are partly due to the "ryanairisation" of the sector, a race towards the bottom in terms of working conditions, pressure on workers, with concrete, negative aspects, on the conditions of remuneration, working conditions, the organisation of work, the setting up of the different schedules and schedules of pilots and flight crews, and with a potential impact on the safety of the sector. Staff find it difficult to carry out their day-to-day work. No one strikes for pleasure. The actions which are being carried out today or which have been carried out in recent days, whether at Brussels Airlines, at Ryanair, or in other airlines or companies in the air transport sector, are not carried out in a cheerful way, but in order to guarantee good working conditions, remuneration, and the safety that this staff, but also the passengers, are entitled to wait and demand. As regards social dialogue in general, I am always at the disposal of the social partners to try to put oil in the workings and not, unlike others, on fire. I do believe, Mrs Cornet, that Ryanair's communication, and in particular that of her boss, is likely to put oil on the fire and not to ease tensions or simply sit around the table to ensure social dialogue. I am really one of those who pleads for this social dialogue to take place in a respectful manner. As you know, the members of my administration, in particular the social ombudsmen, are here to try to ensure that this social consultation can lead to negotiated and consensual solutions between the social partners, which unfortunately could not be the case today. As far as the right to strike is concerned, I repeat that this is a right guaranteed by the Constitution and a series of international conventions which Belgium has signed and ratified. This right must therefore be respected. Therefore, I will not accept any obstacles to the right to strike being implemented by anyone. You'll understand who I'm thinking about. I would like to say a few words about Ryanair. There is no specific obligation, Mrs Vindevoghel, to have its own staff service in Belgium. Social documents may be kept at the registered office of the employer's social secretariat. Social documents must also contain the correct information on workers. Putting workers in unethical absence while exercising their right to strike is therefore not correct. My inspection services continue to follow up the dossier by carrying out the assignments imposed on them by Hainaut's Labour Auditorate. For example, 38 studies have been carried out since the beginning of 2021. As it is a legal bundled investigation, no additional information can be provided. However, if you have specific elements to demonstrate the use of false self-employment by Ryanair, I can only invite you to inform the employment audit. As regards the financial situation of Brussels Airlines, you know that the agreements on the loan were made under the previous government. Your party was then an opposition party. I can tell you that, so far, the agreements on reimbursement and reporting have been properly respected. As for Aviapartner, Mrs. Vindevoghel, you should communicate more carefully. The trade unions have informed me that your public statement about a strike, which was actually a staff meeting, has made the situation of the interim forces more difficult. For this reason, it was disputed that they were entitled to equal pay for these hours. As you know, as regards the development of the European pillar of social rights, this is an ongoing process. The national translation of these objectives – particularly with regard to the transparent conditions of remuneration, the implementation of a European minimum wage and the strengthening of social dialogue – draws my attention and motivates my action. That is why I hope that the European social partners, including in the sectoral sectors, particularly in the field of civil aviation, will be particularly active so that we can work on this European pillar of social rights. As I said in plenary last week, I call on both banks to resettle at the negotiating table with a view to finding a solution very quickly for the benefit of all, including travellers, and to put an end to the tensions in this sector. In any case, you will have understood, the responsibility lies more in one camp than in the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u53	Minister, I proposed that you take an initiative to sit around the table and urgently draw up an emergency plan for the airport so that the airport workers could work in good conditions during the summer. Brussels Airport has a great responsibility and the government still has a share in it. It is important to set something up, but from the political point of view, the government, nothing is taken at all. You are talking about 'Ryanairisation', and that is what we have been saying for a long time. Following the bankruptcy of Swissport, we have tabled a resolution to curb precisely the spiral of organised social dumping in the sector. The PS did not support us then to ensure that there was a pool and an arrangement. Now people are not found and people are allowed to do business at the airport for which they are not even trained. I assure you there will be accidents. That's the whole thing. Brussels Airport can play an important role in this. A mediator to put all these companies together and ensure that safety and working conditions are respected is possible. However, I do not see any step at all. Tomorrow I will speak to Minister Gilkinet about this, because something has to be done, that is to say. Finally, as far as Brussels Airlines is concerned, we have looked up the figures. The airport in Zaventem is one of the most productive of the Lufthansa group. That's not what Lufthansa says, but it is, we figured it out. Moreover, we know that Lufthansa makes substantial profits and is therefore not a loser. Fearing that this could become a second Sabena or bankruptcy is not serious to people who work day in and day out for a job, who do night work and destroy their health for the sake of their company. Moreover, in view of what I see there, the application of the employment deal at the airport will lead to accidents at work. When people will be allowed to work up to ten hours a day and there will be no more involvement of the unions, I hold my heart. If the employment deal is applied in such sectors, it will have major consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u54	Minister, thank you for your answers. My mom was a Sabena air hostess. She had to stop working for health reasons just before the company went bankrupt. She told me recently that at the time, the vocation of aircrew was respected. It was still a pleasure to work, but today is no longer the case. It was finally the arrival of these low-cost flights that caused us to witness slavery at times. Workers are experiencing a fast pace, they have only a few hours to rest between two long-haul flights, which is detrimental to their health and the safety of passengers. In addition, when staff are so exhausted, they have the opportunity – very supervised – not to be required to fly, which has consequences for travellers who have their flight cancelled. Although this strike had a very negative impact on passengers, it was nevertheless an action for passengers to ensure that the service was of long-term quality. I agree with you on the work priorities that you mentioned, but for some of them, you are not going to the end of the process. With regard to the social consultation between airlines and workers' representatives – it is a wish shared by all of us – you do not say how it can be ensured. As far as the European social pillar is concerned, I understand that it is on the right track, but in the meantime it is essential to guarantee the application of Belgian law, which is much more protective, to workers in companies active in Belgium. Finally, with regard to ongoing investigations, it is also essential to increase controls to ensure that the social rules are duly respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u55	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is a fact that workers would like to be around the table and be able to continue social dialogue. From my point of view, we do not strike for pleasure; moreover, a strike is not useless, as the head of the company asserts. On the other hand, it's a right. You said you would not accept any hindrance to this right. On the other hand, you did not answer precisely my questions not only about the sentence contained in the mail but also about the use of sending workers to distant destinations to prevent them from going on strike. I hear that on philosophy, we fully join each other. On concrete action, I did not see what you have implemented or are going to implement. You're the minister. You need to take initiatives. As for me, I can only control the work you do. You have said – and I fully agree with you – that this race should be stopped down; indeed, Ryanair's impact is not only on Ryanair's workers but on the whole sector with this "Ryanairisation" which is observed everywhere and which is deplored by all the actors and workers. I wonder about the use of infrastructure that is often public. Should we not work on ethical conditions for companies to have access to partly public airport infrastructure? I invite you to take action and keep us informed. I also think that there are other measures to be taken in other places.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u56	Madam President, Mrs Rohonyi, the study to which you refer concerns two rather limited aspects of the reform of integration allowances. Indeed, as you know, in 2015, Charles Michel's previous government decided not to give access to this allowance to two groups: young people over twenty-five years of age and young people under twenty-one years of age who would not have graduated from secondary education. The aim was, on the one hand, to encourage young people to seek more active employment and, on the other hand, to combat early school leaving. The study to which you refer shows that the reform has not produced any significant results in any of these areas and has therefore proved ineffective. However, the study does not comment on the other effects of the broader reform of the integration allowance, on the impact on the living conditions of the young people concerned or on the possible risk of poverty. As the study points out, financial incentives are not necessarily the most effective lever to promote employment or to reduce early school leaving. However, measures in the field of education or guidance for jobseekers, as you know, are not within the competence of the federal government but of the Communities and the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u57	Minister, thank you for your clear but, in spite of everything, very concise answer. This study does at least have the merit of confirming what we were saying in the course of the parliamentary work on the two amendments which have been introduced concerning the granting of integration allowances, namely that this system would ultimately only penalise young people and in no way stimulate their employment. I must point out that, of course, an amendment was introduced under the MR-NVA government but also in 2011 under the Di Rupo government. The study also confirms what the Court of Cassation said, namely that these changes contravene a standstill principle which aims to ensure respect for a range of fundamental rights, including the right to social security. Minister, I have a very clear request in relation to this, and I hope you will be able to look into it. It is to return to the situation before 2011 because, as I said, an amendment had already been introduced at that time and, failing that, at least to ensure that the impact of these two changes can be objectiveized on young people, their poverty and their socio-economic situation. We know that there is growing insecurity among young people – the crisis has not helped us – but also in terms of dropping out of school. One can really make sure to sponsor a new study in order to be able to objectiveise the impact of these various reforms. As far as the powers of the federated entities are concerned, I will certainly ask my colleagues in the various parliaments to ensure that measures can also be mobilised.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u58	Question No 55028785C by Mrs Chanelle Bonaventure is postponed. Questions Nos 55028896C by Mrs Nadia Moscufo and 55029086C by Mr Gaby Colebunders are transformed into written questions. Question No 55029158C by Mr François De Smet is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u59	"Mr. Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u60	Minister, what is your analysis of this initiative? Do you have data on the level of demand for these trainings in companies? Like training in first aid and fire prevention, could this first aid training in mental health be the subject of legal supervision"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u61	As you know, I am currently working with my colleagues, Minister Franck Vandenbroucke, David Clarinval and Petra De Sutter on a long-term federal action plan on the prevention of mental well-being at work. During this drafting phase, in which we are still in, we consulted with many stakeholders and experts on this major social challenge. For example, the idea of a first mental health relief was presented by several stakeholders as a good lead. I can also inform you that this important training exists not only abroad but also in Flanders. It is the Red Cross that organizes this free training Eerste hulp bij psychische problemmen and we are currently studying how this training could be deployed throughout Belgium and how it could occupy an important place in this federal plan for the mental well being at work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for this encouraging response. I was not aware of this federal plan, because I also put the question to Minister Vandenbroucke and Petra De Sutter. That's very good news. In the Health Committee, there were dozens of hours of mental health hearing and this issue of early care and detection was always necessary. There was a real need to destigmatize mental disorders. This training really goes in this direction and needs to be deployed in a very broad way. It should also be deployed at the level of schools and universities. At this level too, this must be taken care of. I hope that this will be achieved quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u63	Mrs Hmente, thank you for your question. It is indeed the law of 12 December 2010 which sets the working hours of doctors in training and which supervises and limits their working time and not specifically the convention that you quote. The weekly working hours of these workers may not exceed 48 hours on average over a reference period of 13 weeks. Nevertheless, the same law provides for the possibility of allowing an additional time of up to 12 hours per week - this is called opting out hours - which brings the weekly working time to 60 hours. These additional hours are very framed. In particular, it is provided that the worker must give his prior written agreement on the provision of such additional time in a specific document. In addition, a worker who does not consent or withdraws from it may not suffer any harm from the employer. Failure to comply with the law of 12 December 2010 is also criminalized. With regard to the ongoing investigations, you are aware that many inspections have taken place since the beginning of this year in various hospitals. All these cases are of course of a judicial nature and I cannot therefore comment on them further.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-28-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic834x.u64	Minister, thank you for your answer. This issue is really getting very complex. The spirit of the convention that was put in place was, of course, to limit the hours as much as possible. If we take the law as it is, we can actually fire up to 72 hours. Having an average of 48 to 60 hours per 13 weeks obviously means that sometimes, in several days in a row, 72 hours can be taken, which is indeed the case. When we see the conventions that are still proposed for the students' signature, this kind of cultural change is not yet taken into account at all. And I can understand that it is the law that governs the framework and not this convention. Perhaps we should see to go further so that there are more constraints. It may even be necessary to limit this opting out completely, since it is not an option but just an obligation by which the trainee is somewhat punished if he or she refuses. In fact, he wouldn't even dare refuse that clause. However, this remains a rather complex problem. It is all the more a pity that we thought this new collective agreement was a step forward. Actually, you can see there's none at all. It's a big problem. Thank you.
